

===== PREFACE =====
This update to the County Code of Utah County, UT began in-­house in 2020 with the assistance of Municipal Code Corporation. This County Code shall be cited as the Utah County Code or “UCC” as an acronym.

UCC references found within the code maintain a structure by subject matter using a decimal numbering system which identifies the chapter and section ( for example: 1.01.010 ). This complete set of numbers is designed to aid in searching and/or referencing the Municipal Code, and to assist in subsequent codification as new ordinances are added to the Municipal Code. The first number in the sequence ( 1 .01.010) designates the TITLE level
 The second series of numbers (1. 01 .010) designates the Chapter level
 The last series (1.01. 010 ) designates the Section level
 If a fourth series exists comprising letters or numbers beyond the section level, it designates a Subsection level. 
 The legislation herein may be arranged as an alphanumeric ordered list A, 1, a, (1), (A), (a) to show hierarchal relationships. The legislation may also be arranged as an unordered list (using bullets, discs, squares, etc.) to show items without hierarchal relationships. These list structures assist in subsequent codification as new legislation is added. To forego the naming of each list item and to more granularly reference legislation that employs alphanumeric characters, use “Paragraph” followed by the desired alphanumeric reference(s), comma separated. For example, “Paragraph B,7,d”, specifically references item “d”, of item “7”, of item “B”—whereas “Paragraph B” refers more generally to any or all of list item B’s descendants.

References herein to “Utah Code” are references to the " Utah State Legislature " and to Utah Code 1953, as amended. Vacant titles, chapters, or sections may be designed for future use and may be marked “Reserved” to ease internal expansion. The legislative history identifies the specific legal sources of a section as may be provided in footnotes.

This County Code is supplemented from time­ to ­time with amendments and additions made by Utah County, Utah. The specific legal sources that comprise this Municipal Code have been adopted during the codification process from the original formatting of the official hard copy. In the event of discrepancies between the online Municipal Code and the official hard copy, the official hard copy governs. Municipal Code Corporation, provides a searchable database of the Municipal Code for easy reference and convenience.

NOTICE: THE COUNTY CODE AVAILABLE ONLINE MAY NOT REFLECT ALL OR THE MOST CURRENT VERSION OF LEGISLATION ADOPTED BY THE COUNTY BOARD THAT HAS YET TO BE UPDATED ONLINE. IN THE EVENT OF CONFLICT BETWEEN THE COUNTY CODE AND A WRITTEN ORDINANCE, THE ORDINANCE TYPICALLY GOVERNS. ALSO, THE COUNTY CODE MAY NOT REFLECT RULES OR OTHER REGULATIONS PROMULGATED UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF THE COUNTY CODE, INCLUDING TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS. FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT THE COUNTY CLERK. 1 GENERAL PROVISIONS 1.01 Code Adoption 1.02 Code Construction And General Provisions 1.03 Official And Corporate Provisions 1.04 General Penalties 1.05 Adoption Of State Codes


===== 1.01 Code Adoption =====
1.01.010 Adoption, Designation, And Citation 1.01.020 Effect Of Repealing Existing General Ordinances


===== 1.01.010 Adoption, Designation, And Citation =====
The title, chapters, sections, and subsections embraced in this Code of Ordinances shall constitute and may be cited as the "Utah County Code." State law reference - Adoption of general revision of county ordinances, Utah Code § 17-64-502.


===== 1.01.020 Effect Of Repealing Existing General Ordinances =====
The repeal of the general ordinances as provided in Utah County Code, 2022 shall not affect: any right which accrued; any duty imposed; any fee or penalty due, incurred, or unpaid prior to the effective date of the of the Utah County Code, 2022; any prosecution for ordinance violations committed prior to the effective date of this ordinance and the Utah County Code; or any action or proceeding commenced administratively or judicially under or by virtue of any of the general ordinances so repealed. The repeal of any general ordinance or provision thereof by this ordinance shall not repeal the repealing clause of any such general ordinance nor revive any general ordinance or provision thereof which had been repealed or superseded by such general ordinance.


===== 1.02 Code Construction And General Provisions =====
1.02.010 Definitions 1.02.020 Rules Of Construction 1.02.030 Interpretation Of Language 1.02.040 Parenthetical And Reference Matter 1.02.050 Catchlines Of Section 1.02.060 Correction Of Technical Errors 1.02.070 Altering Code


===== 1.02.010 Definitions =====
In this Code and of all ordinances of this County, the following definitions and rules of construction shall be observed, unless such construction or definition would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Commission, would be repugnant to the context of the provisions, the context clearly requires otherwise, or the term is defined otherwise for the purpose of a specific chapter. Any word or phrase not specifically defined in this subsection shall have the definition set out in state law, in the common law, or according to ordinary English usage. "Board of health" means Board of Health of the County Health Department. "Business" means any activity, operation, enterprise or calling referred to in this Code for which a license is required. "Code" means this Code of Ordinances as designated and cited in UCC 1.01.010. "County" means the political subdivision of the State of Utah known as Utah County and may also be construed to mean the portions of Utah County outside the limits of the incorporated cities or towns therein. "County Commission" means the Board of County Commissioners, being the governing body of the County, unless defined otherwise for the purposes of a specific chapter. "County officers": the terms "County Attorney," "County Auditor," "County Sheriff," "Sheriff," "County Surveyor," "County Treasurer," etc., shall mean and refer to those respective officers of the County, as well as their duly authorized deputies and/or assistants. "Easement" means a right, liberty, privilege or advantage without profit which the owner of one parcel of land may have in the lands of another. A right in the owner of one parcel of land, by reason of such ownership, to use the land of another for a special purpose not inconsistent with a general property right in the owner. "Highway or road" includes the words and phrases "public bridges," "county ways," "county roads," "common roads," "state roads," as well as sidewalks or crosswalks. "In the county" or "in this county" means and includes any territory within the boundaries of this County and any other territory over which regulatory power has been conferred on the county by general or special act, except as otherwise specified. "Joint authority" means words purporting to give authority to three (3) or more officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such officers or other persons, unless it is otherwise specifically declared. "Knowingly" imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which bring the act or omission within the provisions of this Code or ordinances of the County. It does not require any knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission. "Law" means any statute, ordinance or regulation promulgated by the United States, the State, the County or any agency thereof, as well as the rules and regulations of other bodies politic that may be appropriate. "Maliciously" or "malice" means a wish to vex, annoy or injure another person, or an intent to do a wrongful act, established either by proof or by presumption of law. "Month" means a calendar month. "Oath" includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed." "Owner" includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant, tenant or lessee by the entirety of the whole or of any part of a building or land. "Peace officer" means a sheriff of a county, a county deputy sheriff, or a constable. "Person" includes and applies to a firm, partnership, association, corporation, organization, club, society, group acting as a unit, or body politic and corporate, as well as to an individual. "Personal property" means both tangible and intangible property including, but not limited to, money, goods, and evidences of debt but does not include ownership in real property. "Preceding" and "following" mean the next before and the next after, respectively. "Property" means and includes real, personal, and mixed property. "Public place" includes any public way, park, cemetery, school yard or open space adjacent thereto; any public lake or stream; and any place of business open to the use of the public in general, open to public view or to which the public has access. "Public way" means any street, alley, boulevard, parkway, highway, sidewalk or other public thoroughfare. "Real property" shall include lands, tenements, and hereditaments. "Reasonable time." In all cases where any section of this Code or County ordinance shall require any act to be done in a reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time or notice shall be deemed to mean such time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of such duty, or compliance with such notice. "Residence" means the place adopted by a person as his or her place of habitation, and to which, whenever he or she is absent, he or she has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed to be his or her residence. "Roadway" means that portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for vehicular traffic. "Sidewalk" means any portion of the street between the curb, or the lateral line of the roadway, and the adjacent property line intended for the use of pedestrians. "Signature" or "subscription" includes a mark when the person cannot write, when the person's name is written near such mark and is witnessed by another person who writes his or her own name as witness. "State" or "this state" means the State of Utah. "Street" means and includes public streets, avenues, boulevards, highways, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts, bridges, public ways and approaches thereto and other public thoroughfares in the city devoted to public use. "Tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, mean and include any person who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, either alone or with others. "Willfully," when applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted, implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to injure another, or to acquire any advantage. "Written" or "writing" mean or include typewritten, printed on paper, expressed electronically, and any other mode of representing words and letters. "Year" means a calendar year.


===== 1.02.020 Rules Of Construction =====
Whenever a provision appears in this Code requiring an officer of the County to do some act or make certain inspections, it is to be construed to authorize such officer to designate, delegate, and authorize subordinates to perform the required act or make the required inspection unless the terms of the provision or section expressly designates otherwise. Any word importing the singular number shall include the plural, and any word importing the plural number shall include the singular. Words used in the present tense include the past and future tenses and vice versa, unless manifestly inapplicable. Words importing single gender shall extend and apply to all genders and to firms, partnerships, associations, and corporations. The term "and" may be read "or" and the term "or" may be read "and" if the context requires it. The term "may" is permissive, the terms "must" and "shall" are each mandatory. Whenever certain hours are named in this Code, they shall mean standard time or daylight-saving time as may be in current use in the County.


===== 1.02.030 Interpretation Of Language =====
All words and phrases shall be construed and understood according to the common and approved usage of language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning.


===== 1.02.040 Parenthetical And Reference Matter =====
The reference and version tracking material in this Code is for information only and is not a part of this Code, unless otherwise indicated. Citations to later ordinances indicate only the source of such section and the text may or may not be changed by this Code.


===== 1.02.050 Catchlines Of Section =====
The catchlines of sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of any section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any section, including its catchline, is amended or reenacted.


===== 1.02.060 Correction Of Technical Errors =====
The County Attorney’s Office has the discretion to review, examine, and correct any technical and stylistic errors in this Code. Technical errors include: adopting a uniform system of punctuation, capitalization, numbering, and wording; eliminating duplication and renumbering when necessary; correcting defective or inconsistent section and paragraph structure in the arrangement of the subject matter of existing statutes; eliminating all obsolete and redundant words; correcting obvious errors and inconsistencies including those involving punctuation, capitalization, cross references, numbering, and wording; changing the boldface to more accurately reflect the substance of each subsection, section, chapter, or title; and merging or determining priority of any amendments, enactments, or repealers to the same code provisions that are passed by the County Commission. This section in no way grants the County Attorney’s Office the discretion to modify the substance of an ordinance. Any necessary substantive changes to this Code may be recommended to the County Commission for consideration in a follow-up ordinance.


===== 1.02.070 Altering Code =====
It shall be unlawful, and an infraction, for any person to: change or amend by addition or deletion any part or portion of this Code; insert or delete pages, or portions thereof; or alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the County to be misrepresented thereby. Supplementation of this Code by authorized persons shall be permitted.


===== 1.03 Official And Corporate Provisions =====
1.03.010 Reference To Code, Conflicts 1.03.020 Effect Of Repeals 1.03.030 Severability Of Parts Of Code


===== 1.03.010 Reference To Code, Conflicts =====
In addition to the rules of construction and definitions specified in this title, the following rules shall be observed in the construction of this Code:
 All references to titles, chapters, or sections are to the titles, chapters, and sections of this Code unless otherwise specified. If the provisions of different titles of this Code conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions of each title shall prevail as to all matters and questions growing out of the subject matter of such title. If conflicting provisions be found in different sections of the same title, the provisions of the section which is last enacted shall prevail unless such construction would be inconsistent with the meaning of such title.


===== 1.03.020 Effect Of Repeals =====
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinance in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect. The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of such repeal, for an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance repealed.


===== 1.03.030 Severability Of Parts Of Code =====
The sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this Code are severable; and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this Code shall be declared invalid, unenforceable, or unconstitutional by the valid judgment of decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity, unenforceability, or unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs or sections of this Code.


===== 1.04 General Penalties =====
1.04.010 General Penalties; Continuing Violations 1.04.020 Penalty Not Exclusive 1.04.030 Liability Of Employers And Agents


===== 1.04.010 General Penalties; Continuing Violations =====
Except as provided hereafter, if the performance of an act is declared in a section of this Code, including technical codes adopted by reference and state statutes adopted as part of this Code, to be unlawful, or is described as a misdemeanor or a class B misdemeanor, or is otherwise prohibited, the act shall be punishable by a fine in an amount not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by imprisonment in the County jail for a period of time not exceeding six (6) months, or by any combination of said fine and imprisonment. If the performance of an act is declared in a section of this Code, including technical codes adopted by reference and state statutes adopted as part of this Code, to be a class C misdemeanor the act shall be punishable by a fine in an amount not exceeding seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) or by imprisonment in the County jail for a period of time not exceeding ninety (90) days, or by any combination of said fine and imprisonment. If the performance of any act is declared in a section of this Code, including technical codes adopted by reference and state statutes adopted as part of this Code, to be an infraction, the act shall be punishable by a fine in an amount not exceeding seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). No imprisonment shall be imposed for an infraction.
 Each day that any such violation or failure to perform such act shall continue, constitutes a separate offense, unless otherwise specifically provided. In compliance with the provisions of Utah Code § 17-64-501, whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the County a penalty for a violation of this Code or of any ordinance of the County includes any possibility of imprisonment, the County is required, under Utah Code § 78B-22-301, to provide for indigent legal defense, as those terms are defined in Utah Code § 78B-22-201.


===== 1.04.020 Penalty Not Exclusive =====
The imposition of a penalty under the provisions of this Code shall not prevent the revocation or suspension of any license, franchise, or permit issued or granted under the provisions of this Code. In the event any violation of this Code is designated as a nuisance under the provisions of this Code, such nuisance may be summarily abated by the County in addition to the imposition of a fine or imprisonment.


===== 1.04.030 Liability Of Employers And Agents =====
When the provisions of a section of this Code or an ordinance prohibit the commission or omission of an act, not only the person doing the prohibited thing, or omitting the directed act, but also the employer, if the act or omission is done within the course and scope of employment, and all other persons aiding or abetting therein, shall be guilty of the offense described and to the penalty prescribed for the offence.


===== 1.05 Adoption Of State Codes =====
1.05.010 Adoption Of Utah Criminal Code 1.05.020 Adoption Of Utah Code Of Criminal Procedure 1.05.030 Adoption Of Utah Controlled Substances Act 1.05.040 Adoption Of Imitation Controlled Substances Act


===== 1.05.010 Adoption Of Utah Criminal Code =====
The Utah Criminal Code, Utah Code § 76-1-101 et seq., is hereby adopted as a Utah County Ordinance. Provided, however, that any provision of the foregoing having a penalty which cannot be imposed for violation of a County ordinance is not adopted.


===== 1.05.020 Adoption Of Utah Code Of Criminal Procedure =====
The Utah Code of Criminal Procedure, Utah Code § 77-1-1 et seq., is hereby adopted as a Utah County Ordinance.


===== 1.05.030 Adoption Of Utah Controlled Substances Act =====
The Utah Controlled Substances Act, Utah Code § 58-37-1 et seq., is hereby adopted as a Utah County Ordinance. Provided, however, that any provision of the foregoing having a penalty which cannot be imposed for violation of a County ordinance is not adopted.


===== 1.05.040 Adoption Of Imitation Controlled Substances Act =====
The Imitation Controlled Substances Act, Utah Code § 58-37b-1 et seq., is hereby adopted as a Utah County Ordinance. Provided, however, that any provision of the foregoing having a penalty which cannot be imposed for violation of a County ordinance is not adopted. 2 ADMINISTRATION / PERSONNEL 2.01 In General 2.02 Theft Or Crime Insurance 2.03 Government Records Access And Management 2.04 Accident Review Board 2.05 County Constables 2.06 Historic Preservation Commission 2.07 Campaign Financial Disclosure 2.08 The Indigent Dead 2.09 Contact By And With Individual County Commissioners Outside Regularly Scheduled County Commission Meetings 2.10 Rules Of Procedure For The Operation Of The County Commission And Other County Offices And Departments 2.11 Consolidated Of County Offices 2.12 Disaster Response And Management 2.13 Emergency Interim Succession 2.14 Professional Ethics And Conflict Of Interest 2.15 Setting Of Salaries Of Elected Officials 2.16 County Legislative Body's Consent To The Appointment Of Deputies And Employees 2.17 Appeal Of Certain County Recorder Rule Implementations


===== 2.01 In General =====
2.01.010 Improvements Reserve Fund 2.01.020 Annexation 2.01.030 Authority To Acquire, Hold, Manage And Dispose Of Real And Personal Property For Benefit Of County 2.01.040 Financial Administration 2.01.050 Adoption Of Procurement Regulations 2.01.060 Fees Of County Officers; Refund Of Overpayments 2.01.070 Fee Waiver Requests 2.01.080 The County Logo And Slogan


===== 2.01.010 Improvements Reserve Fund =====
There is hereby established a reserve fund for this County for the specific purposes of accumulating funds pursuant to Utah Code §§ 17-63-803, 17-63-804, and any other applicable state code, for financing the purchase of real property, costs of planning, constructing, or designing any of the following facilities in and for this County: jail building; court building; animal control shelter; youth home; or additions to any of the foregoing. Each structures in paragraph A or improvements thereto is hereby defined and determined to be a capital improvement. The reserve fund established by this section shall be funded in the tax year 1976 by a 1.41 mill levy and in subsequent tax years by a mill levy as established by the County Commission on a year-by-year basis.
 State law reference - Reserve fund for major capital improvements, Utah Code § 17-63-803 et seq.


===== 2.01.020 Annexation =====
Any annexation of territory in the County by a municipality which has part or all of its incorporated limits lying outside of the County, shall occur only upon compliance with Utah Code § 10-2-401 et seq. or its successor statute.


===== 2.01.030 Authority To Acquire, Hold, Manage And Dispose Of Real And Personal Property For Benefit Of County =====
The County Commission may purchase, receive, hold, sell, lease, convey or otherwise acquire and dispose of any real or personal property or any interest is such property that it determines to be in the public interest, subject to the following provisions:
 Means of disposal. Subject to Subsection C and D, the County Commission may dispose of, or control the disposition of, any County property, real or personal, and including lost or abandoned property, or any legal or equitable interest in property, the disposition of which is determined to be in the public interest and in accordance with good property management. The disposition of property, or any interest therein, may be by: public or private sale; exchange; exchange and sale; option to purchase; lease; lease with an option to purchase; rental; trade-in; public auction; public advertisement for sealed bids; or any other lawful manner or means. Disposition of property shall not be for less than a full and adequate consideration except for: property which is determined to lie within the boundaries of a street or highway; properties which are conveyed or traded to a municipality or the State of Utah; or for small parcels of property unusable by the County. Consideration for property may be other than monetary. The County Commission may set minimum bid prices on property, real or personal, based upon professional appraisals or by recommendations by the department or departments of the County involved in the sale. Disposal of personal property. The power to declare and dispose of surplus, obsolete, or unusable personal property held by the County is vested in the County Purchasing Agent and such disposition may be made in any manner authorized in Subsection A. The Purchasing Agent shall have discretion, subject to the best interests of County government and of the people of the County and in accordance with good property management techniques, over the disposition and manner of disposition of surplus, obsolete, or unusable personal property with a value of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) or less, provided, however, that such discretion extends only to the initiation and negotiation of the sale or other disposition. For property with a value in excess of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), the disposition and manner of disposition of surplus property must be approved prior to the commencement of negotiations by the Purchasing Agent and County Administrator. No disposition involving amounts in excess of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) shall be split into parts by any concerned party so as to produce amounts of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) or less, for the purpose of avoiding the provisions of this chapter. Disposal of real property in public use or of a significant parcel of real property. The power to dispose of real property held by the County is vested in the County Commission and such disposition may be made in any manner authorized in Subsection A. The disposition of real property which is in public use, regardless of the value thereof, or of a significant parcel of real property, as defined herein, shall be made only with the approval of the County Commission and after a public hearing and reasonable notice thereof, as defined herein. Real property in public use is defined as realty, and improvements thereon, in actual current use by the County, including but not limited to: governmental offices or other public buildings; courthouses; jails and police stations; fire stations; developed parks or other recreational or entertainment facilities; libraries; schools or other educational facilities; utilities; cemeteries; animal control facilities; hospitals or other health facilities; facilities for the welfare of indigents; sanitary landfills; or any other realty or improvement thereon held for the benefit or advantage of the general public and not confined to use by privileged or particular individuals, without regard to whether that use may be classified as governmental or proprietary. A significant parcel of real property is defined as any parcel larger than ten (10) acres, or having an estimated value, as determined by the County Commission, of more than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00). The County Commission shall hold a public hearing concerning dispositions of realty under this subsection, which hearing may be at any special or regularly scheduled meeting of the County Commission, at which hearing all interested persons may appear and be heard. Public notice shall be given of said hearing which shall contain the date, time, and place thereof, a statement of the purpose of the hearing, and a general description of the property, or the interest therein, to be disposed. Such notice shall be published at least once, fourteen (14) or more days prior to the date of the hearing, in a newspaper of general circulation in the County. The notice required herein is defined as reasonable notice. Application to County agencies. The provisions of this title shall be applicable to all boards, commissions, authorities, committees, councils, or other bodies within the jurisdiction of the County Commission and owning or holding real or personal property. When real or personal property is disposed of under the provisions of this title and such property was purchased by a County agency or other body which has an independent revenue base or which has an account separate from the general fund, that agency's account shall be credited with the amount realized from the disposition. If the County receives something other than monetary consideration for the disposition, distribution of that consideration shall be in accordance with the direction of the County Commission.
 HISTORY Amended by Ord. 2025-163 Updated Authority To Acquire, Hold, Manage, And Dispose Of Real And Personal Property For Benefit Of The County on 2/12/2025


===== 2.01.040 Financial Administration =====
"Benefits" are payments made to employees for uniform allowances, insurance waivers, and bonuses; or to other entities on behalf of employees, which are in addition to the employee's salaries/wages, including insurance premiums, retirement contributions, unemployment contributions, and worker's compensation. employees for uniform allowances, insurance waivers, and bonuses;
or other entities on behalf of employees, which are in addition to the
employee's salaries and wages, including insurance premiums,
retirement contributions, unemployment contributions, and worker's
compensation. "Capital assets" are land, buildings, building improvements, vehicles, machinery, equipment, works of art, historical treasures, infrastructure, easements, software, and water rights that: are used in operations; have an initial useful life of two years or more; and have a per-unit cost of five thousand ($5,000) or higher. "FGP" means the Foster Grandparents Program "GASB" means the Governmental Accounting Standards Board. "Internal service charges " means appropriations for: motor pool charges; building rents; telephone system charges; radio charges; computer support charges; GIS/programming charges; Administrative service charges; and equipment replacement charges. "Salaries" and "wages" includes all compensation paid to employees but does not include compensation classified as overtime by the Fair Labor Standards Act, as amended. "SCP" means the Senior Companion Program. In enacting this section, it is the purpose and intent of the County Commission to comply with Utah Code § 17-63-601 by adopting a financial administration ordinance. County warrants. The County Commission shall approve the issuance of all County warrants, except as provided in Subsection C,2. payroll checks and payroll-related expenses that are prepared in accordance with the salary schedule established by the County in its personnel resolution; stipend checks for the FGP and SCP volunteers; bail commissioner checks; Justice Court surcharge payments to the state; Sheriff extradition travel advance checks; stipend checks for inmates who work in the jail; vehicle purchases with payment terms less than thirty (30) days; and regularly scheduled utility payments. All warrants authorized for issuance by the County Auditor must be ratified thereafter by the County Commission to have effect. County purchase orders approvals. Purchase orders shall require approvals from the following entities: for purchases up to ten thousand dollars ($10,000), Division Manager; for purchases greater than ten thousand dollars ($10,000), and up to fifty thousand dollars ($50,000), Department Head; for purchases greater than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000), and up to one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000), the County Administrator; and for purchases greater than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000), the County Commission. The County Purchasing Agent or designee is authorized to approve purchase orders that do not require the approval of the County Commission as provided for in Subsection D,1. Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection D,1, the County Purchasing Agent may approve purchase orders for the following purchases: postage costs paid to the United States Postal Service and State of Utah Mail Services; debt service payments related to County bonds; FGP & SCP volunteer stipends; pass-through payments for intergovernmental purposes, such as the State portion of marriage license fees or vital records fees; payments to the health insurance provider for the County; refunds; survivor benefits in accordance with the rules and regulations governing human resources; vaccinations and medications obtained by the Health Department; utility payments including those for electricity, natural gas, water, and telecommunication services; or bulk fuel purchases made at facilities owned by the County and fuel purchases made pursuant to requisitions to the State of Utah gas card program or similar program. The County Treasurer shall authorize the disbursement of all County warrants issued by the County Commission and the County Auditor in such a manner as to allow the County to maximize earnings on its investments. The County Auditor, acting as the financial officer under the provisions of this chapter, shall be bonded in the amount of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00). Budget Transfers. Budget transfers from either the following accounts, or budget appropriations for the following purposes, require the prior approval and authorization of the County Commission: salaries/wages for employees eligible for County paid health insurance premiums/waivers; benefits; internal service leases; capital assets; and other budget appropriations deemed restricted by the County Commission through amendment of this ordinance or temporarily by resolution except as authorized in Subsection G,2. The County Administrator may approve a budget transfer from salaries or wages accounts to overtime and time-limited accounts: when budgeted positions have been vacant during the current budget year; and after ensuring that unused salaries/wages from vacant positions are greater than the amount of the proposed transfer. Write-off of Uncollectible Accounts Receivable. This section applies only to receivables that are processed through the County Auditor's Office. Receivables include amounts billed by the County for services rendered to another individual, governmental agency, or entity and any claim for funds, monies, or other property which would normally be required by GASB to be recorded as a receivable in the official records of a governmental unit. A write-off of uncollectible accounts receivable from the County's accounting records does not constitute forgiveness of the debt or a gift of public funds. Only uncollectible accounts receivable that are ninety (90) days past due or older may be written off under this section. For receivables that meet the requirements of sections H,1 through H,4, above, the County Commission authorizes the write-off of uncollectible accounts receivable as follows: for receivable balances equal to or less than one thousand dollars ($1,000), the County Auditor may write off the receivable upon review by the County Attorney's Office that all reasonable efforts ·have been taken to collect the receivable; for receivable balances greater than one thousand dollars ($1,000) and equal to or less than ten thousand dollars ($10,000), the receivable may be written off with the approval of both the County Auditor and the County Administrator after review by the County Attorney's Office that all reasonable efforts have been taken to collect the receivable; and for receivable balances over ten thousand dollars ($10,000), the County Commission must approve the write-off. Nothing in this section prevents the County Auditor or County Administrator from submitting any uncollectible accounts receivable less than or equal to ten thousand dollars ($10,000) to the County Commission for write-off approval. Capital asset donations. A capital asset donated to the County may only be accepted by resolution of the County Commission. Any department that wishes to accept a donated capital asset must complete a capital asset donation form created and maintained by the County Auditor's Office. The County Auditor's Office shall provide a written analysis and recommendation to the County Commission regarding the financial impacts of accepting the capital asset. HISTORY Amended by Ord. 2023-1229 Updated Financial Administration on 12/13/2023 Amended by Ord. 2026-172 Updated Financial Administration on 3/4/2026 Amended by Ord. 2026-311 Updated Financial Administration on 4/22/2026


===== 2.01.050 Adoption Of Procurement Regulations =====
Pursuant to the Utah Procurement Code and the Utah State Procurement Policy Board, the Utah County Procurement Regulations are hereby adopted in book form and by this reference made a part of this chapter to the same extent and effect as though said Regulations were copied herein in full.


===== 2.01.060 Fees Of County Officers; Refund Of Overpayments =====
Pursuant to Utah Code § 17-66-303, a Utah County Government Fee Schedule is hereby adopted in book form and by this reference made a part of the County Code to the same extent and effect as though said Fee Schedule was copied herein in full. In the event a county fee is paid in advance and the amount paid exceeds the actual fee by ten dollars ($10) or less, the amount so overpaid shall be forfeited to the general fund of the County. In the event a county fee is paid in advance and the amount paid exceeds the actual fee by more than ten dollars ($10), the county office which received the overpayment shall transmit to the payor a form by which the payor may request a refund of the overpayment. If the County Auditor receives a completed request for refund within ninety (90) days of the date the form is transmitted to the payor, the County Auditor shall prepare and send a check in the amount of the overpayment to the payor. If a completed request for refund is not received by the County Auditor within ninety (90) days of the date the form is transmitted to the payor, the amount overpaid shall be forfeited to the general fund of the County.


===== 2.01.070 Fee Waiver Requests =====
Requests for waiver of fees shall be by written application, shall set forth the specific basis for the request, and shall include all evidence supporting the request. A decision shall be made on each request based upon the submitted materials unless the County Commission desires further input from the applicant and takes action in a public meeting to place the matter on the commission agenda for further review. Except as specifically otherwise authorized by the County Commission, each request for waiver of fees shall be referred to the Civil Division of the County Attorney’s Office for review and recommendation. The attorney assigned to review the fee waiver request may request recommendations from involved county offices, additional information from other governmental agencies and private organizations, additional information from the applicant, and that the applicant appear to address issues raised by the application. The attorney assigned shall review all of the submitted materials and information and shall then provide a recommendation on the application to the County Commission. The County Commission shall review the submitted materials and the recommendation of the assigned attorney and shall then take action on the request at a County Commission meeting based upon the submitted materials.


===== 2.01.080 The County Logo And Slogan =====
The County logo is described as follows: A sketch of Mount Timpanogos and the Wasatch Range, with the words “Utah County, Heart of Utah” below. The County Commission is authorized to develop and approve other County logos and any logo so approved by the County Commission shall be retained on file with the County Commission. Use of logo and slogan. The County logo and slogan shall only be used for the official business of the County, its County Commission, boards and commissions, officers or departments, except upon approval of the County Commission by ordinance or resolution. Except as provided for in this section, no individual or entity, other than the County and its authorized agents, shall reproduce, use, give away, sell, or distribute any logo or slogan, or facsimile thereof, purporting to be or represented to be the logo or slogan of the County. Additional County logos and slogans. The County Commission retains the right to create variations of the County logo and slogan and to adopt and establish other official logos and slogans. Logo or slogan variations may include, but are not limited to, centennial seals, or other seals which mark anniversaries, events, or any other County occasion the County wishes to commemorate. The County logo and slogan may be altered pursuant to resolution of the County Commission. The County Clerk shall be the official custodian of the County logo and slogan, and any other County logo and slogan adopted by the County Commission. A recognized employee organization may use the County seal or logo and slogan, or facsimile thereof, on stationery and printed materials used in the scope of its representation of County employees and on articles of clothing intended for use by County employees. The County Commission is empowered to authorize the use of the County logo and slogan on items that are offered for sale by the County for the purpose of promoting the County.
 Penalty. Any person violating this section shall be guilty of an infraction. A violation of this section may be prosecuted by the County Attorney’s Office in the name of the people of the State of Utah or redressed by civil action. Every violation of this section is punishable by: a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100) for a first violation; a fine not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200) for a second violation of the same section within one year; or a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500) for each additional violation of the same section within one year. The County reserves the right to take any other legal action it finds appropriate to enforce this section.


===== 2.02 Theft Or Crime Insurance =====
2.02.010 Amount Required For County Officials 2.02.020 Amount Required For County Treasurer 2.02.030 Amount Required For Deputies Or Assistants 2.02.040 Blanket Policy 2.02.050 Payment Of Premium


===== 2.02.010 Amount Required For County Officials =====
Pursuant to Utah Code § 17-66-105, the County Commission has prescribed ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) as the amount of theft or crime insurance to be acquired for county officials, as therein defined in Utah Code § 17-66-105(1)(a) through (d), before those county officials may discharge the duties of their respective offices.


===== 2.02.020 Amount Required For County Treasurer =====
The State Money Management Council created in Utah Code § 51-7-16 shall prescribe the amount of theft or crime insurance to be acquired for the County Treasurer before the County Treasurer may discharge the duties of that office.


===== 2.02.030 Amount Required For Deputies Or Assistants =====
Pursuant to Utah Code § 17-66-105, the County Commission has prescribed five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) as the amount of theft or crime insurance to be acquired for each deputy or assistant of those listed in Utah Code § 17-66-105(a) through (d) before those county officials may discharge the duties of their respective offices.


===== 2.02.040 Blanket Policy =====
The County Commission may acquire theft or crime insurance on all county officials as a group rather than individually.


===== 2.02.050 Payment Of Premium =====
Pursuant to Utah Code § 17-66-105, the cost of theft or crime insurance policies shall be paid from county funds.


===== 2.03 Government Records Access And Management =====
2.03.010 In General 2.03.020 Purpose Of Chapter 2.03.030 Definitions 2.03.040 Right Of Privacy 2.03.050 Classification And Retention Of Records 2.03.060 Request For Records 2.03.070 Establishment Of Fees 2.03.080 Appeals 2.03.090 Amendment Of Records 2.03.100 Records Officers 2.03.110 Management Of Records 2.03.120 Justice Court Records 2.03.130 Penalty


===== 2.03.010 In General =====
The County Commission finds the following:
 It is in the best interests of the County and the citizens thereof, and essential for the administration of County government, to maintain and preserve accurate governmental records; to provide ready access to records which are defined by law as open to the public; to maintain the security of records which are defined by law as non-public; and to ensure the preservation of vital and historically valuable records. As the records of the County government agencies are a resource containing information which (1) allows government programs to function; (2) provides officials with a basis for making decisions and ensuring continuity with past operations; and (3) permits citizens to research and document matters of personal and community importance; this resource must be systematically and efficiently managed. It is the policy of the County that all governmental records, which are defined by applicable Utah statutory and case law as public records, shall be made available to citizens as set forth in this chapter. The County recognizes a public policy interest in allowing the government to restrict access to certain records, as specified in the Government Records Access and Management Act and this chapter, for the public good.


===== 2.03.020 Purpose Of Chapter =====
In enacting this chapter, it is the purpose and intent of the County Commission to provide, in accordance with the Government Records Access and Management Act, Utah Code § 63G-2, (hereinafter referred to as “the Act”) an ordinance acknowledging and complying with the Act and providing for its application in the County. County agencies shall comply with the provisions of the Act except for the section of this chapter that are contrary to or in addition to the Act, as allowed by the Act, and shall also comply with other federal and state statutory and regulatory record-keeping requirements.


===== 2.03.030 Definitions =====
Unless otherwise defined herein, the defined terms in the Act shall have the same meaning in this chapter as they have in the Act. As used in this chapter, the following definitions shall be applicable: "Act" shall refer to the Government Records Access and Management Act, Utah Code § 63G-2-101, et seq. "Agency" shall refer to any office, department, division, section, staff office, board, committee, or other division of the County government. "Chief Administrative Officer" shall refer to the County Commission. "Data" shall refer to individual entries (for example, birth date, address, etc.) in records. "Dispose” means to destroy, or render irretrievable or illegible, a record or the information contained in it by any physical, electronic, or other means, including unauthorized deletion or erasure of electronically recorded audio, visual, non- written formats, data processing, or other records. "Non-public" records shall refer to those records defined as private, controlled, or protected under the provisions of this chapter and of the Act.


===== 2.03.040 Right Of Privacy =====
The County recognizes and upholds the personal right of privacy retained by persons who may be the subject of governmental records. The County also recognizes that the Act and Utah case law establish a presumption that governmental records will generally be considered open and public, with certain specific exceptions. In circumstances where a record’s public or non-public status is not specifically established by the Act or another statute, by this chapter, or by policies established or designations made under this chapter, the public’s right to access and the record subject’s right of privacy must be compared. The County shall not release any records when to do so would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy. The County may, as determined appropriate by the Agency director of the Agency responding to a request for records, notify the subject of a record that a request for access to the subject’s record has been made.


===== 2.03.050 Classification And Retention Of Records =====
All County records and records series, of any format, shall be evaluated, designated, and classified under the supervision of the County Records Officer according to the provisions of this chapter and Part 3 of the Act, as amended. Upon the receipt of a records request under the Act, the County Attorney shall make the final determination as to the classification or reclassification of the requested records. All County records and records series, of any format, shall be scheduled for retention under the supervision of the County Records Officer and according to the provisions of the Act and this chapter. The County shall retain its records in compliance with the County General Retention Schedule created and maintained by the Utah Division of Archives and Records Service unless and until the County adopts a records retention schedule. The County may designate or redesignate or classify or reclassify records or data at any time and is not required to classify a particular record or item of data until access thereto is requested. Any records or record series generated in the future shall also be so designated, classified and scheduled for retention. Designation, classification and retention scheduling forms and guidelines may be prepared and promulgated by the Records Officer. Each Agency shall receive, store, and preserve County records and provide reasonable access thereto as may be calculated to accurately and safely maintain County records during the retention period in compliance with this chapter and the Act. The County retains and reserves to itself the right to use any type of format for the storage, retention and retrieval of government records, including but not limited to, imaging or electronic information storage or processing equipment or systems. The methods of access to records in non-written formats or data processing systems shall be as determined appropriate by the Agency director of the Agency maintaining the records, considering all circumstances.


===== 2.03.060 Request For Records =====
Under circumstances in which an Agency is not able to immediately respond to a records request, the requester shall submit a records request through the State of Utah web-based Open Records Portal or fill out and present to the Agency a written request in compliance with the Act. For written requests, the date and time of the request shall be noted on the written request form and all deadlines provided under this chapter and the Act shall commence from that time and date. For requests submitted through the Records Portal, the deadlines provided under this chapter and the Act shall be calculated within the Records Portal. Requesters of non-public information shall adequately identify themselves and, if applicable, their status when requesting access to non-public records. Any County record which is subject to litigation, criminal investigation or audit or has been requested in accordance with this chapter and the Act, that is disposable by approved retention schedule, may not be disposed of until the litigation or audit has been resolved or the request is granted and fulfilled, or sixty (60) days after the request is denied if no appeals are filed, or sixty (60) days after all appeals are completed.


===== 2.03.070 Establishment Of Fees =====
The County or any of its Agencies may charge a reasonable fee to cover the actual cost of duplicating a record or compiling a record in a form other than that maintained by the Agency. All fees charged hereunder shall be consistent with the Act and the adopted Utah County Fee Schedule.


===== 2.03.080 Appeals =====
The County adopts the Appeal procedure from Part 4 of the Act, as amended, with the following amendments or additions to provide for the specific appeal procedure in the County and recognizing that in some respects the County has limited resources that necessitate the time frames provided for herein: A requester or interested party may appeal an access denial or County claim of extraordinary circumstances, including the date for compliance, to the County’s chief administrative officer, by filing a written notice of appeal, satisfying the requirements of a notice of appeal in the Act, with the County Administrator within thirty (30) calendar days of the denial. The chief administrative officer shall enter its decision on the appeal in accordance with Utah Code Part 63G-2-4 or schedule the appeal for an administrative hearing to be held within fifteen (15) business days of receipt of the notice of appeal. If the appeal involves a record that is the subject of a business confidentiality claim under the Act, an administrative hearing shall be scheduled. If an administrative hearing is held, the chief administrative officer shall provide adequate notice to the requester, interested party or business confidentiality claimant with the date, time, and location of the hearing where they will have an opportunity to be heard concerning the appeal and enter its decision on the appeal within five (5) business days of holding the hearing. Failure of the chief administrative officer to issue a decision or schedule an administrative hearing in accordance with Part 4 of the Act or failure to issue a decision within five (5) business days of the administrative hearing, is the equivalent of affirming the access denial. The chief administrative officer shall send written notice of its decision to all participants. If the chief administrative officer’s decision is to affirm the access denial in whole or in part, the notice required herein shall satisfy the requirements of the Act.
 If the decision of the chief administrative officer is to affirm the access denial in whole or in part, the requester or interested party may appeal the decision to the Utah State Records Committee or petition for judicial review of the decision in state district court in accordance with the Act.


===== 2.03.090 Amendment Of Records =====
Records held by the County may be amended or corrected as needed, in accordance with the Act. Requests for amendments, corrections, or other changes shall be made in writing to the Agency having custody of the records and setting forth, with specificity, the amendment or correction requested and the reason for the change. When necessary, the County shall comply with the Open and Public Meetings Act before amending a record. When an amendment or correction of a government record is made, generally both the original record and the amended or corrected record shall be retained, unless the nature of the record indicates otherwise or as may be provided by policies and procedures adopted under the provisions of this chapter. This section does not apply to records relating to title to real or personal property, medical records, judicial case files, or any other records that the County Commission determines must be maintained in their original form to protect the public interest and to preserve the integrity of the record system. Denials of requests to amend records may be appealed following the appeal procedure provided by this chapter.


===== 2.03.100 Records Officers =====
There shall be appointed a County Records Officer to oversee and coordinate records access and management and County archives activities. The Records Officer shall make annual reports of records services activities to the County Commission. The County Commission may hereafter create a Government Records Access and Management Policy Administration (“Records Policy Administration”), to be chaired by the County Records Officer. Members of the Records Policy Administration, if created, would include representatives from the Commission staff, the County departments, and the elected offices. The Records Policy Administration, if created, would establish meeting times and policies as needed, and as determined by the County Records Officer. Each Agency of County government shall appoint a Records Representative to assist with and be directly responsible for the implementation of this chapter. Regular training shall be provided under the direction of the Records Officer to Agency Records Representatives. The Records Officer shall develop and provide records management, maintenance and access standards, policies and procedures, as approved by the County Commission, to govern and implement the provisions of the Act and this chapter. Copies of any rule or policy promulgated under this chapter shall be forwarded by the County Records Officer to the Utah State Division of Archives within thirty (30) days after its effective date. Any Agency’s internal policies regarding records management and access shall be consistent with this chapter and state law.


===== 2.03.110 Management Of Records =====
Records management procedures shall be developed to ensure that due care is taken to maintain and preserve County records safely and accurately during the retention period for each classification of record. The Records Officer shall work with County departments to ensure the care, maintenance, scheduling, disposal, classification, designation, access, and preservation of records. The Records Officer shall be responsible for monitoring the application and use of technical processes in the creation, duplication, and disposal of County records and shall monitor compliance with required standards of quality, permanence, and admissibility pertaining to the creation, use, and maintenance of records. Policies and regulations regarding types and formats of papers, inks, electronic media, and other records and information storage media, materials, equipment, procedures, and techniques shall be developed and promulgated, subject to the approval of the County Commission. Custodians of any County records shall, at the expiration of their terms of office, appointment or employment, deliver custody and control of all records kept or received by them to their successors, supervisors, or to the County Records Officer.


===== 2.03.120 Justice Court Records =====
Records activities of the County Justice Court system shall comply with and be governed by § 63G-2-702 of the Act.


===== 2.03.130 Penalty =====
A public employee or other person who has lawful access to any private, controlled, or protected record under this chapter, and who intentionally discloses, provides a copy of, or improperly uses a private controlled, or protected record knowing that the disclosure or use is prohibited under this chapter, is, except as provided in Utah Code § 53-5-708(1)(c), guilty of a class B misdemeanor. It is a defense to prosecution under Subsection A1 that the actor used or released private, controlled, or protected information in the reasonable belief that the use or disclosure of the information was necessary to expose a violation of law involving government corruption, abuse of office, or misappropriation of public funds or property. It is a defense to prosecution under Subsection A1 that the record could have lawfully been released to the recipient if it had been properly classified. It is a defense to prosecution under Subsection A1 that the public employee or other person disclosed, provided, or used the record based on a good faith belief that the disclosure, provision, or use was in accordance with the law.
 A person who by false pretenses, bribery, or theft, gain access to or obtain a copy of any private, controlled, or protected record to which the person is not legally entitled is guilty of a class B misdemeanor. No person shall be guilty under Subsection B1 who receives the record, information, or copy after the fact and without prior knowledge of or participation in the false pretenses, bribery, or theft.
 A public employee who intentionally refuses to release a record, the disclosure of which the employee knows is required by law, is guilty of a class B misdemeanor. It is a defense to prosecution under Subsection C1 that the public employee’s failure to release the record was based on a good faith belief that the public employee was acting in accordance with the requirements of law. A public employee who intentionally refuses to release a record, the disclosure of which the employee knows is required by a final unappealed order from a government entity, the records committee, or a court is guilty of a class B misdemeanor.


===== 2.04 Accident Review Board =====
2.04.010 Establishment Of County Risk Management Committee And Discretion To Form Department Safety Subcommittees 2.04.020 Department Head Responsibility HISTORY Amended by Ord. 2025-931 Updated Accident Review Board on 10/29/2025


===== 2.04.010 Establishment Of County Risk Management Committee And Discretion To Form Department Safety Subcommittees =====
There is hereby established a County Risk Management Committee for the County. The County Risk Management Committee shall be charged with advising the County Commission concerning County-wide safety, risk, and loss prevention issues, including: risk financing and insurance; incidents and claims; litigation; risk and safety prevention; mitigation; training; and response programs The County Risk Management Committee shall consist of: the County Safety and Risk Manager; the County Sheriff; the County Public Works Director; the County Health Department Director; the County Attorney; the County Director of Information Technology Services; the County Auditor; the County Emergency Manager; and the County Administrator. There shall be a secretary selected for the Committee by the Safety and Risk Manager. The individuals listed in Subsection C may select a designee to participate in the County Risk Management Committee in that individual's place. The individuals listed in Subsection C may authorize subject matter experts to attend on a case-by-case basis depending on the topics being discussed. Department Safety Subcommittees. The County Risk Management Committee may establish and oversee additional Department Safety Subcommittees to serve the: County Sheriff's Office; County Public Works Department; County Health Department; and all other County Departments. These Safety subcommittees, if created, may be tasked with the following responsibilities: investigate incidents and accidents, determine root causes, and recommend corrective actions to management for the following: vehicular incidents and accidents that involve a County vehicle; vehicular incidents and accidents that involve a non-County vehicle where an employee is driving or riding as a passenger during the scope of employment; incidents and accidents resulting in potential or actual damage to County property; incidents and accidents resulting in potential or actual injury to a County employee; incidents and accidents resulting in potential or actual injury to a community member as a result of county operations: incidents and accidents resulting in potential or actual damage to a community member's property as a result of County operations; inform the Risk Management Committee of significant incidents and claims that may have inter-departmental impact; conduct inspections, identify hazards, and recommend changes; recommend and implement safety and risk programs and ensure compliance with safety standards; and provide training and education to employees, supervisors, and management. Department Safety Subcommittees will be directed by the respective department head, except in the case of the Subcommittee described in Subsection G,1,d, which will be directed by a designee of the County Risk Management Committee, in coordination with the Risk Management Committee. For example, duties may be distributed among existing departmental committees rather than forming one central committee. Members of the Department Safety Subcommittees should be selected from employees who can represent the business functions, speak to the safety issues, and make informed recommendations on potential solutions to safety and risk issues. Each Department Safety Subcommittee will include a member of the County Safety and risk staff and a Deputy County Attorney from the County Attorney's Office, Civil Division. The Department Safety Subcommittees do not have disciplinary authority.


===== 2.04.020 Department Head Responsibility =====
If a Department Safety Subcommittee's findings and recommendations include corrective actions, policy changes, or specialized training, the Department Head shall consider the recommendations and implement those which the Department Head deems appropriate within their departmental budgetary and operational constraints. Recommended corrective actions may include: facility modifications; equipment modifications; modifications to operating procedures; program modifications or changes; required safety training; or any other recommended corrective actions deemed appropriate based on individual circumstances.


===== 2.05 County Constables =====
2.05.010 Appointment Of Constables 2.05.020 Liability Of Constables 2.05.030 Constable Nominating Commission 2.05.040 Term Of Office 2.05.050 Certification 2.05.060 User Agreements 2.05.070 Removal Of Constables 2.05.080 Approval Of Deputy Constables 2.05.090 Procedure For Oversight Of County Constables And Deputy Constables By County HISTORY Amended by Ord. 2025-52 Updated County Constables on 1/8/2025


===== 2.05.010 Appointment Of Constables =====
The County Commission may appoint as many qualified persons to act as County constables as convenience requires, subject to the provisions of Utah Code § 17-78-601. Each County constable shall be appointed on a County-wide basis and may serve civil and criminal process pursuant to state law. To qualify for appointment as a County constable, a person shall be certified as a special function peace officer in the State of Utah. The County Commission shall conduct full background checks on persons seeking appointment as County constables before considering such appointment.


===== 2.05.020 Liability Of Constables =====
County constables shall be responsible for supervising their own deputies, office personnel and administrative matters, and for insuring compliance with all applicable laws and ordinances. County constables are independent contractors and are responsible for their own actions and for the actions of their deputies, agents and employees, and any liability resulting therefrom. When executing civil process, constables are acting agents of the litigant or litigant's attorney who employs their services. Constables, as officers of the court, are also acting in their official capacity as special function peace officers empowered by law to enforce the lawful orders of any court of competent jurisdiction.


===== 2.05.030 Constable Nominating Commission =====
When the County Commission determines that one or more constables should be appointed, the County Commission shall establish a Constable Nominating Commission. The Nominating Commission shall consist of the following individuals or their designees: a County Commissioner; the County Sheriff; a judge of the justice or district court; the County Attorney; and an impartial resident appointed by the County Commission Upon being appointed, designated, or informed of the request of the County Commission that the Nominating Commission is to be convened, the members so designated will meet within ten (10) days' time and develop the criteria for advertising the opening of the constable position and the selection and ranking of applicants for the position. Applicants who meet the eligibility criteria established by Utah Code § 17-78-601 for the position of County constable shall be interviewed by the Nominating Commission. After interviewing the applicants and evaluating their qualifications, the Nominating Commission shall rank the applicants in order of preference and submit up to three names for each vacancy together with other recommendations to the County Commission. The County Commission, upon receipt of the Nominating Commission's list of successful applicants ranked in order of preference, or stating that all applicants are equally qualified, together with its recommendations and within fifteen (15) calendar days thereafter, shall: approve the Nominating Commission's recommendations and appoint the recommended applicant(s); reject the recommended applicant(s) and select one or more of the remaining applicants on the list; or reject all the named applicants and refer the matter back to the Nominating Commission for a new list and recommendation.


===== 2.05.040 Term Of Office =====
A constable's term of office is six (6) years. A constable may serve more than one term if reappointed by the County Commission.


===== 2.05.050 Certification =====
Deputy constables must be certified by the Division of Peace Officer Standards and Training as qualified to undertake the duties of a special function peace officer and shall be approved by the Nominating Commission. After a newly appointed County constable has been appointed by the County Commission, the constable's name shall be reported to the Division of Peace Officer Standards and Training by the County Commission Clerk.


===== 2.05.060 User Agreements =====
Constables may enter into user agreements with the County Sheriff for access to the County Sheriff's Department criminal history information the County Sheriff deems appropriate. Upon entering into a user agreement, the constable shall be responsible for ensuring the confidentiality requirements of the agreement are complied with. Constables may enter into user agreements with agencies of the State of Utah for access to State and national criminal history information systems.


===== 2.05.070 Removal Of Constables =====
County constables shall be subject to removal for cause after a determination for removal has been made by an administrative tribunal convened by the County Commission to adjudicate the matter. Removal proceedings may be initiated by the County Attorney or the County Commission, and shall be structured as to afford the constable due process. Detailed procedures for initiating and conducting removal proceedings shall be as set forth in the Utah County Human Resources Rules and Regulations manual. The following shall constitute an automatic disqualification and removal from office: loss of certification by the Division of Peace Officer Standards and Training; the conviction of any felony, or conviction of an offense involving dishonesty, unlawful sexual conduct, physical violence, or the unlawful use, sale or possession for sale of a controlled substance, as defined by the Division of Peace Officer Standards and Training administrative rule; failure to comply with all requirements set forth in applicable statutes and this ordinance; and a judgement against the constable in any civil case resulting from or related to the constable's discharge of official duties as a constable. A County constable may be removed from office if it is established that the constable has willfully failed to comply with the written administrative policies and procedures approved by the County Commission or the County Officers and Employees Disclosures Act, Utah Code § 17-16a-1, et seq.


===== 2.05.080 Approval Of Deputy Constables =====
Pursuant to Utah Code § 17-25a-3(3), an appointed County constable may, upon approval of the County Commission, employ and deputize persons who are certified as special function peace officers to function as deputy constables. The County Commission shall consider the approval of deputy constable candidates after the submission of the following to the County Commission by the appointed County constable: a copy of the deputy constable candidate’s employment application; Peace Officer Standards and Training (POST) certification for the deputy constable candidate;
 a letter from the appointed County constable declaring that the deputy constable candidate is a person of good moral character; letters of reference from two registered voters in the County, declaring that the deputy constable candidate is a person of good moral character; and a certification by the appointed County constable that the deputy constable candidate has had no criminal convictions during the previous seven (7) years. The County Sheriff shall, within ten (10) days of the submission of the documents enumerated in Subsection B, complete the following: verify that the deputy constable candidate is POST certified and is in good standing with POST; perform a credit check on the deputy constable candidate; perform a drug screen on the deputy constable candidate; and file a written report of the County Sheriff’s findings with the County Commission.
 The appointed County constable shall certify annually in writing to the County Attorney’s office that each deputy constable has completed a minimum of forty (40) hours of in-service training, including a minimum of eight (8) hours of firearm training with a POST certified firearms instructor. Within one (1) year after appointment as a deputy constable, each deputy constable shall undergo psychological testing and evaluation to determine the deputy constable’s fitness to carry a firearm and to serve as a deputy constable. A deputy constable shall be required to undergo psychological testing and evaluation at any time upon the written request of the County Attorney’s Office or the County Commission. All costs of training, testing, and evaluation of deputy constable candidates and deputy constables shall be borne by the appointed County constable employing said deputy constables. The County Commission may revoke its approval of a deputy constable, at any time, with or without cause. The term of a deputy constable's approval shall expire with the term of the supervising constable.


===== 2.05.090 Procedure For Oversight Of County Constables And Deputy Constables By County =====
If an individual has a complaint against an appointed County constable or deputy constable concerning a constable’s performance, the complainant may file a written statement concerning the complaint with the Civil Division Chief of the County Attorney’s Office. Upon receipt of such a complaint regarding a constable the Civil Division Chief shall review the complaint and may thereafter schedule a meeting with the affected constable, the County Sheriff or designee, and, if deemed appropriate, the complainant, to discuss the complaint and to formulate the manner in which to resolve the complaint. An appointed County constable, or an approved deputy constable, shall appear before the County Commission at any time upon request of the County Commission to respond to questions or concerns regarding the conduct or performance of an appointed County constable or an approved deputy constable. An appointed County constable shall provide a quarterly report to the County Commission by the end of March, June, September, and December of each year containing the following: Total number of papers served year-to-date, broken down by type or category, including total number of papers served outside of Utah County; List of all deputy constables working for constable; List of names of all business entities registered under or affiliated with constable that provide constable related services; Number and description of past and current claims, complaints, or lawsuits against the constable or the constable's deputies; and The constable's current fee schedule.


===== 2.06 Historic Preservation Commission =====
2.06.010 Purpose 2.06.020 Historic Preservation Commission 2.06.030 Historic Preservation Commission Duties


===== 2.06.010 Purpose =====
The County recognizes that the historical heritage of the County is among its most valued and important assets. It is therefore the intent of the County to identify, preserve, protect and enhance historic and prehistoric areas and sites lying within the County. The County asserts its authority under Utah Code § 17-78-202 to: expend public funds to preserve, protect, or enhance an historical site or area; acquire an historical area or site by direct purchase, contract, lease, trade, or gift; obtain an easement or right-of-way across public or private property to ensure access or proper development of an historical area or site; protect an historical area or site; ensure proper development and utilization of land or an area adjacent to an historical area or site; and enter into an agreement with a private individual for the right to purchase an historical area or site if and when the private individual elects to sell or dispose of the owner's property.


===== 2.06.020 Historic Preservation Commission =====
An Historic Preservation Commission is hereby established with the following provisions:
 The Commission shall consist of seven (7) members with a demonstrated interest, competence, or knowledge in historic preservation. Each Commission member shall be appointed for a term of four (4) years by the County Commission. Two of the Commission members shall be professionals, as defined by National Park Service regulations, from the disciplines of history, architecture, or architectural history. The Commission will meet at least two (2) times each year and shall conduct business in accordance with the Open Public Meeting laws of the State of Utah, including public notification of the meeting place, time, and agenda items. The Commission shall be authorized to apply for matching grants for local historic preservation projects after consultation with and approval by the County Commission. The Commission shall not be authorized to expend or encumber any County funds without prior and specific approval by the County Commission. Written minutes of each Commission meeting will be prepared and made available for public inspection.


===== 2.06.030 Historic Preservation Commission Duties =====
The Historic Preservation Commission shall conduct or cause to be conducted a survey of the historic, architectural, and archeological resources within the County. The survey shall be compatible with the Utah Inventory of Historic and Archeological Sites. Survey and inventory documents shall be maintained and open to the public. The survey will be updated at least every ten (10) years. The Historic Preservation Commission shall review and comment to the State Historic Preservation Officer on all proposed National Register nominations for properties within the County. When the Historic Preservation Commission considers a National Register nomination which is normally evaluated by professionals in a specific discipline, and that discipline is not represented on the Commission, the Commission will seek expertise in this area before rendering its decision. The Historic Preservation Commission shall act in an advisory role to other officials and departments of government regarding the identification and protection of local historic and archeological resources. The Historic Preservation Commission shall also work toward the continuing education of citizens regarding historic preservation and the County's history. The Historic Preservation Commission shall support the enforcement of all State laws relating to historic preservation. These include, but are not limited to: Utah Code §§ 9-8-305, 9-8-307, and 9-8-308 regarding the protection of Utah antiquities; and Utah Code § 9-8-404 regarding notification of the State Historic Preservation Office of any known proposed action which will destroy or affect a site, building, or object owned by the State of Utah and included on or eligible for the State or National Registers.


===== 2.07 Campaign Financial Disclosure =====
2.07.010 Definitions 2.07.020 Campaign Financial Disclosure 2.07.030 Penalties


===== 2.07.010 Definitions =====
As used in this chapter:
 "Contribution" "Contribution" means any of the following when done for political purposes: a gift, subscription, donation, loan, advance, or deposit of money or anything of value given to the filing entity; an express, legally enforceable contract, promise, or agreement to make a gift, subscription, donation, unpaid or partially unpaid loan, advance, or deposit of money or anything of value to the filing entity; any transfer of funds from another reporting entity, candidate, or a corporation to the filing entity; compensation paid by any person or reporting entity other than the filing entity for personal services provided without charge to the filing entity; and goods or services provided to or for the benefit of the filing entity at less than fair market value. "Contribution" does not include: services provided without compensation by individuals volunteering a portion or all of their time on behalf of the filing entity; or money lent to the filing entity by a financial institution in the ordinary course of business. "Expenditure" means: any disbursement from contributions, receipts, or from a separate bank account required by State law; a purchase, payment, donation, distribution, loan, advance, deposit, gift of money, or anything of value made for political purposes; an express, legally enforceable contract, promise, or agreement to make any purchase, payment, donation, distribution, loan, advance, deposit, gift of money, or anything of value for political purposes; compensation paid by a corporation or filing entity for personal services rendered by a person without charge to a reporting entity; a transfer of funds between the filing entity and a candidate's personal campaign committee; or goods or services provided by the filing entity to or for the benefit of another reporting entity for political purposes at less than fair market value.
 "Expenditure" does not include: services provided without compensation by individuals volunteering a portion or all of their time on behalf of a reporting entity; or money lent to a reporting entity by a financial institution in the ordinary course of business.
 "Filing entity" means the reporting entity that is filing a report required by this chapter.


===== 2.07.020 Campaign Financial Disclosure =====
Each candidate for County office shall file signed campaign financial statements with the County Clerk reporting his or her itemized and total campaign contributions and expenditures at the following times: candidates who withdraw or who are eliminated at any time prior to the date of the primary election shall file a signed campaign financial statement containing the information required by this section no later than thirty (30) days after withdrawing or being eliminated; candidates for elective office in which a primary election is held shall file a signed campaign financial statement containing the information required by this section seven (7) days before the date of the primary election, reporting contributions and expenditures as of ten (10) days before the date of the primary election; candidates for elective office who are eliminated at a primary election shall file a signed campaign financial statement containing the information required by this section not later than thirty (30) days after the primary election; candidates for elective office at the general election shall file a signed campaign financial statement containing the information required by this section seven (7) days before the date of the general election, reporting contributions and expenditures as of ten (10) days before the date of the general election; and candidates for elective office at the general election shall file a signed campaign financial statement containing the information required by this section not later than thirty (30) days after the date of the general election. The statement filed seven (7) days before the primary election and the statement filed seven (7) days before the general election shall include: a list of each contribution of more than fifty dollars ($50) received by the candidate as of ten (10) days before the election, and the name of the donor; an aggregate total of all contributions of fifty dollars ($50) or less received by the candidate as of ten (10) days before the election; and a list of each expenditure for political purposes made during the reporting period, and the recipient of each expenditure.
 The statement filed thirty (30) days after the primary election and the statement filed thirty (30) days after the general election shall include: a list of each contribution of more than fifty dollars ($50) received after the cutoff date for the prior statement, and the name of the donor; an aggregate total of all contributions of fifty dollars ($50) or less received by the candidate after the cutoff date for the prior statement; and a list of each expenditure for political purposes made by the candidate after the cutoff date for the prior statement, and the recipient of each expenditure.
 HISTORY Amended by Ord. Default on 10/12/2022


===== 2.07.030 Penalties =====
Any person who fails to comply with the requirements of this chapter shall be guilty of an infraction.


===== 2.08 The Indigent Dead =====
2.08.010 Purpose Of The Provisions 2.08.020 Cremation Services - Designated 2.08.030 Attendance Of Services And Disposal Of Remains 2.08.040 Objections To Cremation


===== 2.08.010 Purpose Of The Provisions =====
The state has recognized that the proper disposition of human remains is a proper county function as set forth in Utah Code § 17-63-701. This chapter recognizes that the prompt and proper disposition of human remains implicates issues of public health, the investigation and prosecution of homicides, the decreasing availability of burial plots and society’s general acceptance of cremation as a proper and dignified disposition of human remains.


===== 2.08.020 Cremation Services - Designated =====
The remains of indigent persons who die within the county shall be cremated; provided, however, that the remains of indigent homicide victims may, at the County’s discretion, be buried in a plot designated by the County. The County’s obligation for the cremation of any deceased indigent person’s remains shall not include the costs associated with any service of memorial.


===== 2.08.030 Attendance Of Services And Disposal Of Remains =====
The friends and family of a deceased indigent person shall have the right to attend and witness cremation services held under this chapter. If any surviving family member of a deceased indigent person so desires, cremated remains shall be deposited in an urn or other suitable container and custody thereof given to that family member. If a deceased indigent person has no known surviving family, or if family members decline custody of cremated remains, such remains shall be disposed of at the discretion of the mortuary responsible for cremation and such disposal shall be performed with all due respect for the dead.


===== 2.08.040 Objections To Cremation =====
If a deceased indigent person’s surviving spouse, sibling, parent or direct descendant objects to disposition by cremation before the deceased indigent person is cremated, the County may provide a payment equal to the cost of cremation toward the burial or other disposition of that deceased indigent person. If no objection is made pursuant to this section or if a deceased indigent person has no known surviving family, said deceased indigent person shall be disposed of by cremation. This will satisfy in full the statutory requirements of Utah Code § 17-63-701.


===== 2.09 Contact By And With Individual County Commissioners Outside Regularly Scheduled County Commission Meetings =====
2.09.010 Purpose 2.09.020 Definitions 2.09.030 Goals 2.09.040 Permitted Contact Between Individual Commissioners And Constituents Outside Regularly Scheduled County Commission Meetings 2.09.050 Prohibited Contact Between Individual Commissioners And Others Outside Regularly Scheduled County Commission Meetings 2.09.060 Penalty For Violation


===== 2.09.010 Purpose =====
The governmental entity of Utah County can only act upon a majority vote of the County Commission. A commissioner has no authority to individually represent the position of the County, or to bind the County, without the prior authority of the County Commission. Communications between individual commissioners and parties to litigation affecting the County could cause detrimental results to the County in the litigation. In matters in which the County Commission sits as a quasi-judicial body, it is imperative that the County Commission remain impartial and neutral to both sides of an issue.


===== 2.09.020 Definitions =====
As used in this chapter:
 “Ex parte contact” means contact by one side only of a matter before the County Commission, when the County Commission is acting in its quasi-judicial capacity.
 “Legislative capacity” means that role of the County Commission involved with the: framing and enactment of laws for the County, including the adoption of or amendments to this Code; adoption of or amendments to the Utah County General Plan; adoption of or amendments to the Utah County Land Use Ordinance ; and rezoning of properties. “Litigant” means one engaged in litigation. “Litigation” means a judicial controversy or dispute, either civil or criminal, involving the County as a party thereto, including: disputes where the County or County employees have been named as defendants in a civil suit; disputes where a claimant has served a notice of claim on the County; disputes where individuals or entities have filed an application before a County Appeal Authority, or are appealing a decision of a County Appeal Authority; or matters where the County has filed a civil complaint or criminal action against an individual or entity for violation of provisions of this Code, the Utah County Land Use Ordinance , or the Utah County Health Code. “Quasi-Judicial capacity” means that role of the County Commission where it acts to investigate facts, and draw conclusions therefrom, as a basis for its official actions, and to exercise discretion of a judicial nature, including matters in which the County Commission: acts in its capacity as the County Board of Equalization; acts as an appellate body; considers a request for approval of a large scale development, as defined by the Utah County Land Use Ordinance ; considers a conditional use permit request; or considers an exception to the Utah County Land Use Ordinance requiring its approval.


===== 2.09.030 Goals =====
To permit contact between individual commissioners and constituents in matters in which the County Commission is acting in its legislative capacity. To prohibit contact between individual commissioners and litigants in litigation by or against the County. To prohibit ex parte contact between individual commissioners and proponents or opponents in matters in which the County Commission is acting in its quasi-judicial capacity.


===== 2.09.040 Permitted Contact Between Individual Commissioners And Constituents Outside Regularly Scheduled County Commission Meetings =====
Legislative capacity matters : Contact between individual commissioners and constituents is permitted when the contact regards matters involving the legislative capacity of the County Commission.


===== 2.09.050 Prohibited Contact Between Individual Commissioners And Others Outside Regularly Scheduled County Commission Meetings =====
Litigation matters : Contact between individual commissioners and litigants, counsel for litigants, any representative of litigants, or other implied representative of litigants involved in litigation with the County shall be prohibited outside regularly scheduled meetings of the County Commission. Individual commissioners are prohibited from participating in site or office visits, written communication, electronic communication, or verbal conversation either face-to-face or over the telephone, with any litigant, counsel for a litigant, any representative of a litigant, or other implied representative of a litigant involved in litigation with the County. In actions filed by the County, such as violation of this Code, the Utah County Land Use Ordinance , or the Utah County Health Code, this prohibition shall begin when the matter is referred to the County Attorney’s Office. In actions against the County, this prohibition shall begin when it becomes apparent that litigation is imminent against the County, when a notice of claim is served, or when a complaint is filed, whichever occurs first. In matters before a County Appeal Authority, this prohibition shall begin when an application is filed with the Appeal Authority. If a litigant, counsel for a litigant, representative of a litigant, or other implied representative of a litigant initiates contact with an individual commissioner, the commissioner shall immediately inform the initiator of the contact of the prohibition of such contact and shall immediately terminate the contact. The commissioner shall inform the County Commission of the attempted contact at the next meeting of the County Commission or shall document such contact in a written memorandum to the other commissioners and the County Attorney’s Office in a timely fashion. Quasi-Judicial capacity matters : Contact between individual commissioners and others outside a regularly scheduled County Commission meeting regarding matters involving the quasi-judicial capacity of the County Commission shall be considered ex parte contact and shall be prohibited. Individual commissioners are prohibited from participating in site or office visits, written communication, electronic communication, or verbal conversation either face-to-face or over the telephone, with any individual or representative of a company or entity when such contact involves the quasi- judicial capacity of the County Commission. In matters involving the County Board of Equalization, this prohibition shall begin when an application or appeal is filed with the County Board of Equalization. In matters involving a large-scale development approval request, conditional use permit request or an exception to the Utah County Land Use Ordinance requiring County Commission approval, this prohibition shall begin when an application is filed with the County Community Development Department. This prohibition shall apply to both proponents and opponents of a matter involving the quasi-judicial capacity of the County Commission. If an individual involved in a quasi-judicial capacity matter initiates contact with an individual commissioner, the commissioner shall immediately inform the initiator of the contact of the prohibition of such contact and shall terminate the contact. The commissioner shall inform the County Attorney’s Office of such contact by memorandum in a timely fashion. Written material provided by one side in a quasi-judicial capacity matter should be made a part of the record of the County Commission.


===== 2.09.060 Penalty For Violation =====
A commissioner in violation of this chapter or any part thereof shall be guilty of an infraction and upon conviction thereof may be sentenced to pay a fine not to exceed two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00).


===== 2.10 Rules Of Procedure For The Operation Of The County Commission And Other County Offices And Departments =====
2.10.010 Purpose 2.10.020 Commission Meeting Agendas 2.10.030 Regular Meetings Of The County Commission To Be Held At County Seat 2.10.030 General Rules Of Procedure 2.10.040 Authority Of Commission Chair 2.10.050 Authority Of Commissioners 2.10.060 Commission Decorum 2.10.070 Commission Administration 2.10.080 Procedures Of Other County Offices And Departments


===== 2.10.010 Purpose =====
The County Commission has the responsibility of managing the governmental and business affairs of the County and does so through various capacities of the County Commission, including its legislative capacity, its executive or administrative capacity, and its quasi-judicial capacity. Procedural rules for the operation of the County Commission are necessary to allow for the proper and professional management of the governmental business affairs of the County.


===== 2.10.020 Commission Meeting Agendas =====
To the extent practicable, all action or information items desired to be included on the agenda of a County Commission meeting are to be filed on the County agenda system by 11:59 p.m. on the Wednesday before the County Commission meeting. The County Commission Chair is responsible for organizing the agenda. Any County Commissioner may add an item to the agenda. At the County Commission meeting, any County Commissioner may request that an agenda item be added to or removed from the consent agenda portion of the meeting agenda. The items moved to the consent agenda shall be approved by consent if no County Commissioner in attendance at the meeting objects to the action. No separate vote is required. If any County Commissioner objects to the approval by consent of any agenda item, such agenda item shall be removed from the consent agenda and remain on the regular agenda. Approval of the consent agenda constitutes approval of each of the items on the consent agenda. The agenda shall be available to the public. Backup materials shall, as a general policy, be made available to the public, but only to the extent practicable and taking into consideration the Government Records Access Management Act, privacy laws, personal privacy interests, the best interests of the County government, and other considerations. The backup materials made available to the public shall contain a clear indication that the County Commission has not yet approved the agenda item.
 HISTORY Amended by Ord. 2025-120 Updated Commission Meeting Agendas on 1/29/2024 Amended by Ord. 2024-800 Updated Commission Meeting Agendas on 9/18/2024


===== 2.10.030 Regular Meetings Of The County Commission To Be Held At County Seat =====
In accordance with Utah Code §§ 17-64-301 and 52-4-202, notice is hereby given that the County Commission will hold its regular meetings at the county seat of Utah County on those dates and times designated in the annual meeting schedule, unless otherwise changed by action of a quorum of the County Commission. All regular meetings of the County Commission will be held in Room 1400 of the County Administration Building, 100 East Center Street, Provo, Utah, unless otherwise changed by action of a quorum of the County Commission.


===== 2.10.030 General Rules Of Procedure =====
Parliamentary rules for the County Commission are to be governed by Robert’s Rules of Order recognizing the basic tenets and principles of parliamentary procedure: courtesy to all, justice to all, one item at a time, the rule of the majority, the rights of the minority, and partiality to none. A County Commission meeting is adjourned only after being declared adjourned by the Chair. Public comment shall generally be limited to three minutes per individual and should not be redundant. The three-minute limit may be modified or waived by the Chair or a majority of the County Commission.


===== 2.10.040 Authority Of Commission Chair =====
The Chair of the County Commission may call another commissioner to order if the other commissioner’s remarks are not relevant to the subject under discussion or for lack of decorum by the other commissioner. The Chair is obligated to vote or abstain with explanation on each motion, except as otherwise provided for by state law. The Chair may discuss a motion just as any other commissioner without relinquishing the position of Chair. In the event of a tie vote of the County Commission, the Chair shall rule that the motion is lost. The Chair may call a recess for a definite period if no objection is raised. If an objection is raised, the Chair is obligated to call for a motion.


===== 2.10.050 Authority Of Commissioners =====
Commissioners must vote or abstain with explanation on every motion, unless otherwise provided by state law. Each commissioner may be limited to a specific period of time by the Chair for discussion of each subject. This time limitation may be automatically extended if there is no objection thereto. If an objection is made, a motion to extend time must be made, seconded, and approved by a two-thirds vote of the County Commission. Commissioners may appeal from a decision of the Chair without a second and said appeal shall be decided by a majority vote of the County Commission.


===== 2.10.060 Commission Decorum =====
Any commissioner who receives a request for a dignitary function on behalf of the County shall forward the request to the other commissioners within a reasonable time, and in a reasonable manner. The Chair is generally the appropriate representative for dignitary functions. Any commissioner who receives a press inquiry involving County business shall notify the other commissioners of the nature of the request and of the general substance of the response to the inquiry, within a reasonable time, and in a reasonable manner. If the County Commission has not officially adopted a position regarding an issue, an individual commissioner is prohibited from representing or implying what the position of the County is regarding any such issue. An individual commissioner cannot bind the County to any position, obligation, or liability, without the prior express authorization of the County Commission. Press releases generated by one or more commissioners stating or implying a position of the County regarding any issue must be approved by official action of the County Commission prior to release. A commissioner may not use County employees or County resources to further the individual commissioner's proposals involving County business unless authorized by a majority of the County Commission. However, requests for existing departmental information, use of County Commission staff, and use of the County Attorney's Office to assist in drafting proposals and legislation are permissible. An individual commissioner is prohibited from waiving or modifying any policy, procedure, or fee established by the County Commission. Any such waiver or modification must be approved by official action of the County Commission.


===== 2.10.070 Commission Administration =====
The County Commission shall annually assign administrative responsibility for the various County departments to each of the individual commissioners in the form of “portfolio” management assignments. The responsibility of a portfolio assignment for a commissioner for a given department includes: periodic attendance of the commissioner at portfolio department staff meetings; review by the commissioner of agenda requests by a portfolio department for completeness and for recommendation of session placement on the County Commission agenda. All complete agenda requests which require action by the County Commission must be placed on the County Commission agenda; become familiar with portfolio departmental staffing requirements; review and approval by the commissioner of purchase orders and expenditures for each portfolio department; review and assistance by the commissioner in annual budget preparation and adjustments for each portfolio department; and review and assistance by the commissioner in resolution of citizen inquiries and complaints for each portfolio department. All citizen inquiries and complaints shall be forwarded to the commissioner who has the department involved with the citizen inquiry or complaint in the commissioner’s portfolio.


===== 2.10.080 Procedures Of Other County Offices And Departments =====
Other County offices and departments may not issue press releases, stating or implying the official position of the County Commission, without prior County Commission approval. Department policies and procedures manuals may be adopted to address internal department operations. For departments supervised by an appointed or merit employee department head, departmental policies and procedures and subsequent modifications will have effect after approval by the Director of Human Resources and the County Commission after legal review by the County Attorney. For departments supervised by an elected department head, departmental policies and procedures and subsequent modifications must be approved as follows, after legal review by the County Attorney: policies and procedures concerning human resource matters will have effect after approval by the Director of Human Resource and the County Commission; policies and procedures concerning matters of general county administrative ordinances, rules or policies or the legislative powers, duties or functions of the County will have effect after approval by the County Commission; and policies which pertain to the performance of the elected officer’s functions, duties, and responsibilities specifically provided for by law may be established by the elected department head consistent with existing law. Any department policies and procedures which conflict with the Utah County Office of Human Resource Rules and Regulations, which concern human resource matters addressed in the Utah County Office of Human Resource Rules and Regulations, or which are assigned to the Director of Human Resources or the Office of Human Resources by the County Personnel Management Act, Utah Code § 17-75-4 et seq., are hereby rescinded. The determination as to whether the department policy conflicts with Human Resource Rules and Regulations shall be made by the Director.


===== 2.11 Consolidated Of County Offices =====
2.11.010 Consolidation Of County Offices Of County Clerk And County Auditor 2.11.020 Separation Of Previously Consolidated County Offices Of County Recorder And County Surveyor


===== 2.11.010 Consolidation Of County Offices Of County Clerk And County Auditor =====
[REPEALED]


===== 2.11.020 Separation Of Previously Consolidated County Offices Of County Recorder And County Surveyor =====
The duties, functions, and responsibilities of the previously consolidated offices of the County Recorder and the County Surveyor are hereby separated, with the separation to take effect at noon on January 3, 2011. The separation of the previously consolidated offices of the County Recorder and the County Surveyor shall create separate county offices of the County Recorder and the County Surveyor effective at noon on January 3, 2011, pursuant to the provisions of Utah Code § 17-66-104(3)(b). The separated office of the County Recorder shall perform the statutory duties of the County Recorder as enumerated in Utah Code Chapter 17- 71. The separated office of the County Surveyor shall perform the statutory duties of the County Surveyor as enumerated in Utah Code Chapter 17- 73. Pursuant to the provisions of Utah Code § 17-66-104, the separation of the previously consolidated county offices of the County Recorder and the County Surveyor shall take effect at noon on January 3, 2011, and one person shall be elected to the separated office of County Recorder and another person shall be elected to the separated office of County Surveyor, at the general election held on November 2, 2010. The elected County Recorder and the elected County Surveyor shall each be entitled to a separate annual salary as fixed by the County Commission. The term of office for the separated county offices of the County Recorder and the County Surveyor shall each be for a term of four
(4) years commencing at noon on January 3, 2011, with each succeeding term to be four (4) years thereafter. The separation of the previously consolidated county offices of the County Recorder and the County Surveyor shall not, in any way, affect the term of office of the currently elected County Recorder/Surveyor, which term shall expire at noon on January 3, 2011.


===== 2.12 Disaster Response And Management =====
2.12.010 Legislative Findings - Purpose 2.12.020 Definitions 2.12.030 Emergency Disaster Council Created 2.12.040 Local Emergency Declaration 2.12.050 Political Subdivisions Of The County - Declaration Of A "Local Emergency Declaration" 2.12.060 Authority Of The County Commission 2.12.070 Orders, Rules, And Regulations Having The Force Of Law 2.12.080 Acquisition Of Property For Public Use 2.12.090 Mutual Aid Agreements


===== 2.12.010 Legislative Findings - Purpose =====
The County Commission finds that existing and increasing threats of the occurrence of destructive disasters resulting from attack, internal disturbance, natural phenomena, or technological hazard could greatly affect the health, safety, and welfare of the people of this county, and it is therefore necessary to grant to the County Commission special emergency disaster authority. Pursuant to Utah Code §§ 53-2a-203 and 53-2a-213, the County Commission is authorized to carry out the measures as may be ordered by the governor under Utah Code § 53-2a. It is the purpose of this ordinance to assist the County Commission to effectively provide emergency disaster response and recovery assistance to protect the lives and property of the people of this county.


===== 2.12.020 Definitions =====
"Attack" means a nuclear, conventional, biological, act of terrorism, or chemical warfare action against the United States of America, this state, or this County.

“Chair” means the Chair of the County Commission, or, if the Chair is unavailable or otherwise incapacitated, then the Vice Chair. 

"Disaster" an event that: causes, or threatens to cause, loss of life, human suffering, public or private property damage, or economic or social disruption resulting from attack, internal disturbance, natural phenomena, or technological hazard; and requires resources that are beyond the scope of local agencies in routine responses to emergencies and accidents and may be of a magnitude or involve unusual circumstances that require response by government, not-for-profit, or private entities. "Emergency Operations Plan" means the formal plan compiled by the County Sheriff providing emergency operations procedures to be used during a disaster.

"Exigent circumstances" means a significant change in circumstances following the expiration of a state of emergency declared in accordance with this chapter that: substantially increases the threat to public safety or health relative to the circumstances in existence when the state of emergency expired; poses an imminent threat to public safety or health; and was not known or foreseen and could not have been known or foreseen at the time the state of emergency expired.
 "Internal disturbance" means riot, prison break, disruptive terrorism, or strike.

"Local emergency" means a condition in any part of the County that requires County government emergency assistance to save lives and to protect property, public health, welfare, or safety in the event of a disaster, or to avoid or reduce the threat of a disaster. 

"Long-term state of emergency" means a state of emergency: that lasts longer than thirty (30) days; or declared to respond to exigent circumstances
 "Natural phenomenon" means any earthquake, tornado, storm, flood, landslide, avalanche, forest or range fire, drought, or epidemic.

"Technological hazard" means any hazardous materials accident, mine accident, train derailment, air crash, radiation incident, pollution, chemical weapons incident, structural fire, or explosion.

"Terrorism" means activities or the threat of activities that: involve acts dangerous to human life; are a violation of the criminal laws of the United States, the state of Utah, or this County; and to a reasonable person, would appear to be intended to: intimidate or coerce a civilian population; influence the policy of a government by intimidation or coercion; or affect the conduct of a government by mass destruction, assassination, or kidnapping.
 "Political subdivision" means a municipality, special service district, or local district.


===== 2.12.030 Emergency Disaster Council Created =====
An Emergency Disaster Council is created to provide advice to the County Commission on matters relating to local government emergency disaster response and recovery actions. The Emergency Disaster Council shall meet at the direction of the County Commission. The County Commission shall appoint a Director of Emergency Management who shall serve on the Emergency Disaster Council as chair of that council. The Emergency Disaster Council is comprised of the following: County Commissioners; County Sheriff; County Public Works Director; Local Health Officer; County Assessor; County Recorder; County Treasurer; County Attorney; County Clerk; County Auditor; and Others as appointed by the County Commission.


===== 2.12.040 Local Emergency Declaration =====
A local emergency may be declared by the Chair of the County Commission if the Chair finds a disaster has occurred or the occurrence or threat of a disaster is imminent in any area of the County in which County government response or recovery is required or assistance is required to supplement the response and recovery of any political subdivision of the County. The local emergency declaration shall not be continued or renewed for a period more than thirty (30) days except by or with the consent of the County Commission. All declarations or orders issued under this chapter shall include: the nature of the local emergency; the area or areas that are affected or threatened; the conditions creating such an emergency or those conditions allowing termination of the local emergency; the number or quantity of resources or assistance needed.
 Any order or proclamation declaring, continuing, or terminating a local emergency shall be filed promptly with the office of the County Clerk. When the Chair of the County Commission or the County Commission declares a disaster or emergency, the County's emergency response will operate as outlined in the County Emergency Operations Plan. Except as provided in Subsection (E), a state of emergency expires the earlier of: the day on which the Chair finds that: the threat or danger has passed; the disaster reduced to the extent that emergency conditions no longer exist; or the County no longer requires state government assistance to supplement the response and recovery efforts of the municipality or county; thirty (30) days after the day on which the Chair declares the state of emergency; or the day on which the County Commission terminates the state of emergency by majority vote. The County Commission may at any time terminate by majority vote a state of emergency declared by the Chair. The County Commission may by majority vote extend a state of emergency for a time period stated in the motion. If the County Commission extends a state of emergency in accordance with this subsection, the state of emergency expires on the date designated by the County Commission in the motion. Except as provided in Subsections (G), (H), and (I) after a state of emergency expires in accordance with this Subsection (D) and (E), the Chair may not declare a new state of emergency in response to the same disaster or occurrence as the expired state of emergency. After a state of emergency expires, the Chair may declare a new state of emergency in response to the same disaster or occurrence as the expired state of emergency, if the Chair finds that exigent circumstances exist. A state of emergency declared in accordance with Subsection (G) expires in accordance with Subsections (D) and (E). After a state of emergency declared in accordance with Subsection (G) expires, the Chair may not declare a new state of emergency in response to the same disaster or occurrence as the expired state of emergency, regardless of whether exigent circumstances exist.


===== 2.12.050 Political Subdivisions Of The County - Declaration Of A "Local Emergency Declaration" =====
A declaration of local emergency by any political subdivision of the County is official recognition that a disaster situation exists within the affected political subdivision and provides a legal basis for requesting and obtaining state or federal government disaster assistance. Notice of any local emergency declared by any political subdivision shall be promptly delivered to the County Sheriff, Emergency Services Division Commander, or any member of the County Commission. The County Commission may provide the requested assistance and resources based on an evaluation of the resources utilized by the County political subdivision, the sufficiency of the political subdivision’s emergency response plan and reserves, and the County’s available resources. If the County cannot provide such requested assistance, the County may declare a local emergency. Following a County local emergency declaration, the County Sheriff shall direct the request for assistance to the state and coordinate other local agency assistance, considering proximity to the emergency and available resources. During any disaster where local, state, or federal assistance is required, the County Sheriff shall direct and coordinate such assistance. All requests for outside assistance and resources shall be coordinated through the County Sheriff. If more than one municipality and/or the County declares a local emergency during the same period of time, a Unified Command Committee shall be formed. The Unified Command Committee shall include a representative from each of the affected jurisdictions. The representatives shall have the authority to make decisions for the jurisdiction they represent.


===== 2.12.060 Authority Of The County Commission =====
The County Commission, during a declared local emergency, is authorized and empowered to: enact laws, rules, and regulations or suspend any law, rule, or regulation when necessary to save human life and protect property; utilize all available resources as reasonably necessary to cope with the emergency; suspend the County rules and regulations regarding overtime restrictions and personnel use, allowing department heads to utilize personnel as necessary to answer the challenges of the emergency presented to each department;
 employ measures and give direction to County and local officials and agencies which are reasonable and necessary for the purpose of securing compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and with orders, rules, and regulations made pursuant to this chapter; in connection with evacuation suspend or limit the sale, dispensing, or transportation of alcoholic beverages, explosives, and combustibles or other hazardous materials; establish curfews for the protection of life and property in the affected areas; establish price freezes to prohibit the practice of price gouging for items in short supply or high demand in the affected area; establish the ration of critical supplies necessary to sustain life; The Chair of the County Commission, during a declared local emergency, is authorized and empowered to: approve and advise the evacuation of all or part of the population from a stricken or threatened area within the County, if necessary for the preservation of life; approve routes, modes of transportation, and destination in connection with an evacuation; control ingress and egress to and from a disaster area, the movement of persons within the area, and approve the occupancy or evacuation of premises in a disaster area; clear or remove debris or wreckage from publicly or privately owned land or water which may threaten public health or public safety; establish temporary shelters for the housing of evacuated persons; authorize the on-scene commander to approve expenditures of thirty thousand dollars ($30,000) or less. Nothing in this section shall be construed to be contrary to or limit the authority of the County as set forth in Utah Disaster Response and Recovery Act, Utah Code § 53-2a-2.


===== 2.12.070 Orders, Rules, And Regulations Having The Force Of Law =====
All orders, rules, and regulations promulgated by the County Commission shall have the full force and effect of law during the local emergency, provided a copy thereof is filed with the County Clerk if immediately practicable.


===== 2.12.080 Acquisition Of Property For Public Use =====
Upon proclamation of the "local emergency" the Board of County Commissioners may purchase or lease public or private property for public use including: food; medical supplies; clothing; shelter; means of transportation; fuels and oils; or buildings or land.
 Such purchases under authority of this section may be used for any purpose to meet the needs of an emergency, including its use to relieve want, distress, and disease.


===== 2.12.090 Mutual Aid Agreements =====
The County Commission is authorized to enter into mutual-aid compacts with other political subdivisions within the state of Utah concerning matters involving cooperative disaster response and recovery assistance support, consistent with Utah Disaster Response and Recovery Act, Utah Code § 53-2a-2.


===== 2.13 Emergency Interim Succession =====
2.13.010 Title 2.13.020 Definitions 2.13.030 Emergency Interim Succession Procedure


===== 2.13.010 Title =====
This chapter shall be known as the Emergency Interim Succession Act.


===== 2.13.020 Definitions =====
As used in this chapter, the following definitions shall be applicable:

"Absent" means physically not present or not able to be communicated with; does not include a person who can be reached by telephone, radio, or other communications methods.

"Emergency interim successor" means a person designated by the officer to exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the officer in the officer’s absence.


===== 2.13.030 Emergency Interim Succession Procedure =====
On January 1 of each year, each department head, with the exception of the County Commissioners, shall: designate three (3) qualified emergency interim successors from within the department who meet the constitutional qualifications for the office, if any; specify the order of their succession; provide a list of those designated successors to the County Sheriff; and have an emergency alert plan in place and provide a copy of the plan to the County Sheriff. If any department head is unavailable following a disaster or local emergency, a designated emergency interim successor shall exercise the powers and duties of the office according to the order of succession specified by the officer until: the County Commission appoints a successor to fill the position; a permanent successor is appointed or elected by law; the officer, or an emergency interim successor earlier in the order of succession becomes available to exercise or resume the powers of the office; Emergency interim successors shall exercise the powers of the office which they succeeded only when a disaster has occurred. Successors may only serve for thirty (30) days after the date of the local emergency declaration unless approved by the County Commission. Extension of emergency powers shall be by the authority of the County Commission and only during the time of the disaster and recovery operations. The Chair of the County Commission, or successor as set forth in Subsection D, shall settle all disputes concerning emergency interim successors. Decisions of the Chair or successor are final. Emergency succession of the Chair of the County Commission shall proceed as follows when disaster response is occurring or imminent: The Chair shall serve, if available. If the Chair is unavailable, the Vice-Chair shall serve as Chair. If neither the Chair nor the Vice-Chair is available, the remaining commissioner shall serve as Chair. If no commissioner is available, the County Sheriff shall serve as Chair of the County Commission.


===== 2.14 Professional Ethics And Conflict Of Interest =====
2.14.010 Purpose 2.14.020 Definitions 2.14.030 Prohibited Conflicts Of Interest 2.14.040 Exceptions To The Gifts And Honoraria Prohibitions 2.14.050 Public Contract And The Procurement Process 2.14.060 Representation Regarding Ethical Standards Clause In Contracts 2.14.070 Restricted And Non-Restricted Conflicts Of Interest - Disclosure Required 2.14.080 Disclosure Statement 2.14.090 Professional Code Of Ethics 2.14.100 Loss Of County Property Or Funds 2.14.110 Violations 2.14.120 Prohibition Of Filing A Complaint Immediately Before An Election


===== 2.14.010 Purpose =====
It is the intent of the County to require honest and ethical conduct by its officers, employees and volunteers. The effective operation of County government requires officers, employees and volunteers to be independent, impartial, and responsible to County government and its citizens. This Professional Ethics and Conflict of Interest ordinance, in conjunction with other County policies and State laws, will assist County officers, employees and volunteers in understanding their ethical obligations. The purpose of this Professional Ethics and Conflict of Interest ordinance is to establish standards of conduct for County officers, employees, and volunteers where there are actual or potential conflicts of interest between their public duties and their private interests, and to promote honest and ethical conduct.


===== 2.14.020 Definitions =====
In addition to the definitions in Utah Code § 17-70-501 which are incorporated herein, the following terms are hereby defined for purposes of this Professional Ethics and Conflict of Interest ordinance. “Gifts” means anything of value including a loan at a rate that is substantially less than a prevalent commercial rate, compensation for goods or services exceeding fair market value, goods or services provided for less than fair market value, gratuity, entertainment, hospitality or forbearance, unless consideration of equal or greater value is received. “Honoraria” means the offering or acceptance of perquisite, gift or anything of value for speaking, writing or participating in a meeting, convention, social event, meal or like gathering. “Household” means all persons who occupy a residence or dwelling with the officer, employee or volunteer for an entire year including family members (spouse, child, ward, parents, siblings, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandparent, legal guardian, grandchild, adult designee, dependent child of an adult designee and step-relatives of the same order), relatives (uncle, aunt, nephew, niece, first cousin, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law) and any unrelated persons. “Non-Restricted Conflict or Non-Restricted Conflict of Interest” means any and all other interests not considered a Restricted Conflict of Interest, as defined in this Professional Ethics and Conflict of Interest ordinance, including political, family, fraternal, social, other interests or associations which may create the appearance or the actuality of a conflict of interest between an officer, employee, or volunteer’s outside interest and his or her County responsibilities, other conflicts as defined by state statute and any campaign contribution made to the officer, employee, or volunteer or to any member of his or her household, of more than two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) during the prior calendar year. “Purchasing Official” means the County Purchasing Manager and any subordinate County Purchasing Agents. “Restricted Conflict of Interest” means any direct outside, substantial interest held by the officer, employee, or volunteer, or by any member of his or her household. Outside public sector employment does not constitute a Restricted Conflict of Interest and is addressed in the Utah County Human Resource Rules and Regulations. “Substantial interest” means the ownership, either legally or equitably, by an individual, the individual’s spouse, and the individual’s minor children, of at least ten percent (10%) of the outstanding shares of a corporation or ten percent (10%) interest in any other business entity.


===== 2.14.030 Prohibited Conflicts Of Interest =====
Unless excepted under UCC 2.14.040, County officers, employees, and volunteers shall not: Accept employment or engage in any business or professional activity which may be reasonably expected to require or induce improper disclosure of controlled, private, or protected information gained through affiliation with the County. Disclose or improperly use controlled, private, or protected information acquired through affiliation with the County for the private gain or benefit of self or others. Use or attempt to use their official position to secure special privileges or exemptions for self or others. Engage in any outside activity, employment, or financial investment which constitutes a Restricted Conflict of Interest. Knowingly receive, accept, take, seek or solicit, directly or indirectly, any gift or economic benefit tantamount to a gift such as a loan at an interest rate that is substantially lower than the commercial rate then currently prevalent for similar loans; and compensation received for private services rendered at a pay rate substantially exceeding the fair market value of the services, if:
1. It may be reasonably expected to improperly influence an officer, employee, or volunteer to depart from the faithful and impartial discharge of their County duties;
2. The officer, employee, or volunteer knows, or a reasonable person in that position should know under the circumstances, it is primarily for the purpose of rewarding the officer, employee, or volunteer for an official action already taken; or
3. The officer, employee, or volunteer is now or in the near future may be involved in any governmental action directly affecting the donor or lender unless disclosures have been made as required under Section 2.14.080. Participate in vendor / customer incentive programs which place the officer, employee, or volunteer at risk of being viewed as either misappropriating County property or using their position to secure a privilege by virtue of the County position.
Accept an incentive from any retailer or vendor. If the officer, employee, or volunteer were to come into possession of such property, the property must be turned over to the County as soon as practicable and a record made of the fact it was turned over to the County. Accept Honoraria in regard to activities related to their County duties or purpose except as allowed in Section 2.14.040. The County may grant the requests of schools, universities, civic organizations, governmental entities, or private businesses to have County officers, employees, or volunteers give speeches or other presentations, teach or provide consultation services. Such services by employees must be authorized by their Department Head and shall be compensated as for other regularly assigned duties. Knowingly accept or solicit any gift for themselves, a relative, a household member or organizations of the officer, employee, volunteer or others, except as allowed in Section 2.14.040. Participate in an official capacity or receive compensation in respect to any transaction between the County and any business entity in which the officer, employee, volunteer or a member of their household is also an officer, director, employee or owns a substantial interest in the company without first filing a conflict of interest disclosure statement as outlined in Section 2.14.080. Have personal investments in any business entity which will create a substantial conflict between their private interests and public duties. Receive or agree to receive compensation for assisting any person or business entity in any transaction involving the County without first filing a conflict of interest disclosure statement as outlined in Section 2.14.080. Employ, appoint, or attempt to influence the appointment or hiring of a relative or household member to any County position or employment paid out of County funds, except as provided in the Utah County Human Resource Rules and Regulations. Directly supervise or evaluate for purposes of pay, benefits, promotion, or discipline a relative or household member in any County position or employment paid out of County funds, except as provided in the Utah County Human Resource Rules and Regulations.


===== 2.14.040 Exceptions To The Gifts And Honoraria Prohibitions =====
The following are exceptions to the gifts and honoraria prohibitions in Section 2.14.030. The gift is a political contribution authorized by law and reported as part of the campaign disclosure requirements of the County or any other governmental entity. Token items of nominal value, with a value less than one hundred dollars ($100.00), including, but not limited to educational materials, shirts, coffee mugs, parking validations or other commemorative or similar souvenir items. An occasional nonpecuniary gift having a value of less than fifty dollars ($50.00). Snacks, beverages, meals, entertainment, educational or informational materials provided at meetings or other functions. Attendance at conventions, seminars or events of a primarily educational nature, including meals and entertainment that are associated with the convention, seminar, or event, and any associated educational or informational materials related to the duties of the officer, employee, or volunteer. Gifts not related to the activities of the officer, employee, or volunteer with the County. Awards and retirement gifts publicly made for public service. Meals and entertainment given at a widely attended reception, meal, event, or meeting by an organization before whom the recipient appears to represent the County and attends, makes a speech, answer questions or participates in part of a program. Attendance at political events that are primarily sponsored by a political party or political candidate. Flowers, plants, balloons or similar tokens which are given to express condolences, congratulations or sympathy for ill health or to commemorate holiday or special occasions. County sponsored programs activities or work. Rewards or prizes given to competitors or entrants in a random drawing in which the County officer, employee, or volunteer is an entrant, including a drawing at an event attended by the County officer, employee, or volunteer where the County paid for their attendance. Discounts and waived membership fees if the discounts are available to a class consisting of all public officers, employees, or volunteers, or to a geographically defined class of public officers, employees, or volunteers.
 Gifts for the County that become the property of the County. Gifts to County officers, employees, or volunteers from other County officers, employees, or volunteers.
 Death transfers including bequests and inheritances. Gifts to blind trusts related to legal defense funds for imminent or pending litigation against officers, employees, or volunteers related to their official duties.


===== 2.14.050 Public Contract And The Procurement Process =====
No Purchasing Official may receive or solicit any gift or a request for employment from a vendor, seller or buyer of real property or service provider which is or anticipates doing business with the County. It is unlawful and punishable as provided by law for any payment, gift or offer of employment to be made by any person to a County officer, employee, volunteer, contractor or any household member of the County officer, employee or contractor of the County to obtain a specific procurement, disposal, contract or subcontract. No County officer, employee, volunteer, nor any person representing the County and receiving compensation therefrom shall travel inside or outside the state of Utah at the expense of any past, present, or future vendor, unless excepted below: Exceptions may be granted by the County Commission in a public meeting for good cause shown, such exceptions shall require: a written explanation justifying the exception; a written disclosure of all the facts associated with the matter; and a written request to the County Commission containing both a written explanation and the disclosure of all the facts. No exception will be allowed in any circumstance which would violate federal, state, or local laws. It shall be the duty of County officers, employees, and volunteers to be aware of federal, state, or local laws and not seek an exception which would violate any such laws. The County Commission may seek an opinion from the County Attorney’s Office whenever the County Commission is presented with a request for an exception. Any exception granted under this Section shall be considered a public document.


===== 2.14.060 Representation Regarding Ethical Standards Clause In Contracts =====
In every contract, bid, proposal, or other offer involving the County made by a nongovernmental entity that nongovernmental entity shall make the following representation:

REPRESENTATION REGARDING ETHICAL STANDARDS FOR COUNTY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES

The bidder, offeror, vendor, or contractor represents that it has not (1) provided an illegal gift or payoff to a County officer or employee, or his or her relative or business entity; (2) retained any person to solicit or secure this agreement upon an understanding for a commission, percentage, or brokerage or contingent fee, other than bona fide employees or bona fide commercial selling agencies for the purpose of securing business; (3) knowingly breached any of the ethical set forth in the County’s Professional Ethics and Conflict of Interest ordinance, UCC 2.14; or (4) knowingly influenced, and hereby promises that it will not knowingly influence a County officer or employee to breach any of the ethical standards set forth in the County’s Professional Ethics and Conflict of Interest ordinance, UCC 2.14.
 The Purchasing Official, subject to review by the County Commission, may waive the representation requirement in this Section for certain state master contracts, bids, proposals, or other offers upon a written determination that it is in the best interest of the County to waive the representation requirement.


===== 2.14.070 Restricted And Non-Restricted Conflicts Of Interest - Disclosure Required =====
A County officer, employee, or volunteer must complete a disclosure statement as provided in UCC 2.14.080 under the following circumstances: Interest in a business entity regulated by the County or doing business with the County : A County officer, employee, and volunteer who is an officer, director, agent, employee or the owner of a substantial interest in any business entity which is subject to the regulation of the County, including licensure or which does or anticipates doing business with the County. Restricted Conflict of Interest : In addition to filing a disclosure form, the County officer, employee, or volunteer who has a restricted conflict of interest who is also a member of a County body shall publicly disclose such interest to the members of the body and are required to be recused from all discussions, deliberations, decision making or vote regarding the business entity. The disclosure statement shall be entered in the minutes of the meeting. Non-Restricted Conflict of Interest : In addition to filing a disclosure form, the County officer, employee, or volunteer who has a non-restricted conflict of interest who is also a member of a County body shall publicly disclose such interest to the members of the body immediately prior to any discussion and / or vote regarding the business entity. The disclosure statement shall be entered in the minutes of the meeting. Compensation for assistance in transaction involving the County : A County officer, employee, or volunteer who agrees to receive compensation for assisting any person or business entity in any transaction involving the County must disclose the information identified in UCC 2.14.080 at least ten (10) days prior to the date of any agreement between the officer, employee, or volunteer and the person or business entity being assisted or prior to the receipt of compensation by the County officer, employee, or volunteer, whichever is earlier. Interest creating conflict of interest with duties : A County officer, employee, or volunteer or a member of their household who has a personal interest or investment which creates a potential or actual conflict between their personal interests and public duties must disclose the information identified in UCC 2.14.080 and shall publicly disclose such interest to the members of the body immediately prior to discussion and/or vote regarding the conflict of interest and the nature of the conflict. The disclosure shall be entered in the minutes of the meeting.


===== 2.14.080 Disclosure Statement =====
A disclosure statement as required by the “County Officers and Employees Disclosure Act”, Utah Code Chapter 17-16a, and the “Utah Public Officers’ and Employees’ Ethics Act”, Utah Code Chapter 67-16, is a written and sworn document filed with the County Commission and is designated a public document. The disclosure statement shall provide the name and business address of the officer, the name and business address of the person or business entity being assisted and a brief description of the transaction or service provided, or the name and business address of the business in which the County officer, employee, or volunteer has a substantial interest, the position held and the precise nature and value of any interest. The disclosure statement shall be made upon first assisting the person or business, or upon becoming an officer or employee and in January of each year thereafter during which he or she continues to be an officer, director, agent, owner, volunteer, or employee. The disclosure statement must be filed at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the date of any agreement to provide assistance or receive compensation. County officers, employees, and volunteers are responsible for ensuring their disclosure statement is current and is filed with their department head and the County Commission.


===== 2.14.090 Professional Code Of Ethics =====
County officers, employees, and volunteers who work in occupations having professional codes of ethics or standards of professional responsibility shall adhere to those requirements in the performance of their County duties. Failure to abide by professional codes of ethics may adversely affect the employees' ability to perform their duties and may, in appropriate cases, result in disciplinary action or termination of County employment. Failure by a County officer, employee, or volunteer to meet the requirements of their professional or occupational licensing authority, resulting in loss of the license required to practice in such profession or occupation and the inability to continue to work in the County position, may be a basis for immediate termination of employment. County employees and volunteers shall have an ongoing obligation to report to their supervisor any actions taken by the licensing authority, including the facts giving rise to such action, which affects their right to continue to practice in that profession. Failure to report as required may be a basis for immediate termination of employment. County officers, employees, and volunteers are expected to comply with applicable County policies, ordinances and laws in their position with the County.


===== 2.14.100 Loss Of County Property Or Funds =====
Any County officer, employee, or volunteer, who is responsible for, has access to, or has been given possession of County property or funds shall immediately notify his or her department head of the loss of, or inability to account for, County property or funds. Any County officer, employee, or volunteer, who is aware of a loss of County property or funds shall also notify his or her department head. Upon discovery of a loss of County property or funds, the department head shall immediately notify the County Auditor and County Attorney.


===== 2.14.110 Violations =====
If a County employee is found to be in violation of this Professional Ethics and Conflict of Interest ordinance and has had employment disciplinary action imposed as a result therefrom, then that employee may appeal that disciplinary action if allowed under the Utah County Human Resource Rules and Regulations. Any procurement, disposal, contract, subcontract, or other government action by the County which involved a violation of a provision of this Professional Ethics and Conflict of Interest ordinance is voidable, at the option of the County and without returning any part of the consideration received by the County. Debarment or suspension of doing business in the future with the County may be imposed by the County on any bidder, offeror, vendor, or contractor for violations of the provisions of this Professional Ethics and Conflict of Interest ordinance, provided that they have had the right to notice and an opportunity for a hearing before the County Commission prior to the imposition of any debarment or suspension. In addition to any penalty allowed by law, any person who knowingly and intentionally violates the provisions of this Professional Ethics and Conflict of Interest ordinance is guilty of a class B misdemeanor and may be terminated from employment or removed from office, as provided by law. Any person who induces or seeks to induce any County officer, employee, or volunteer to violate this Professional Ethics and Conflict of Interest ordinance is guilty of a class B misdemeanor. Any person who files a complaint against a County officer, employee, or volunteer pursuant to this Professional Ethics and Conflict of Interest ordinance, knowing that such complaint is frivolous, malicious, false, or is otherwise without merit, shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor.


===== 2.14.120 Prohibition Of Filing A Complaint Immediately Before An Election =====
A complaint for violation of this Professional Ethics and Conflict of Interest ordinance may not be filed during the sixty (60) calendar days immediately before a primary election, if the accused County officer or employee is a candidate in the primary election. A complaint for violation of this Professional Ethics and Conflict of Interest ordinance may not be filed during the sixty (60) calendar days immediately before a general election in which the accused County officer or employee is a candidate unless the accused County officer or employee is unopposed in the election.


===== 2.15 Setting Of Salaries Of Elected Officials =====
2.15.010 Method Of Calculation 2.15.020 Timing Of Reevaluation Of Salaries Of Elected Officials


===== 2.15.010 Method Of Calculation =====
The annual compensation of the elected officials of the County shall be set in accordance with state law. After any required public hearings, after due consideration of all input received at the public hearings and budgetary restrictions, and subject to the discretion and determination of the County Commission, the annual compensation of the elected officials of the County shall be determined by utilizing one or more of the following methods: Current market data comparing Utah County to the top four most populous counties in the State of Utah may be used as a basis for a salary recommendation proposed to the County Commission pursuant to UCC 2.1 5.020. The annual compensation of elected officials may be based upon the approximate ratio of the annual compensation of elected offices to the annual compensation of the county attorney as evidenced in current market data. An average of the annual market-based pay increases of all career service employees within Utah County Government may be used as a basis to support a proposal for an increase in the compensation for all elected officials.


===== 2.15.020 Timing Of Reevaluation Of Salaries Of Elected Officials =====
The annual compensation of the elected officials of the County should be evaluated annually and a recommendation made by the Director of Human Resources.


===== 2.16 County Legislative Body's Consent To The Appointment Of Deputies And Employees =====
2.16.010 Authority To Appoint Deputies And Employees 2.16.020 Method Of Providing Consent By The Legislative Body 2.16.030 Deputy Appointment Process, Liability Of Officer, Effect Of Vacancy, And Oath Of Office


===== 2.16.010 Authority To Appoint Deputies And Employees =====
Each elected County officer, except County Commissioners, may, with the consent of the County Commission, appoint deputies and employees as necessary for the discharge of the duties of the County officer's office.


===== 2.16.020 Method Of Providing Consent By The Legislative Body =====
The County Commission's consent to the appointment of deputies and employees by County officers shall be given by any of the following methods: the County budget approval process, which shall be the standard method of consent by the County Commission; 
 approval or disapproval of the hiring of individual applicants; approval of the County staffing plan; or approval of an allocation of a certain number of positions.


===== 2.16.030 Deputy Appointment Process, Liability Of Officer, Effect Of Vacancy, And Oath Of Office =====
Each elected County officer appointing a deputy shall, for each deputy appointed, file a signed writing with the County Clerk that memorializes the appointment.
 The powers of the deputy include the powers of the elected County officer unless limited by the deputy's written appointment, by office policy, or by job description. The elected County officer appointing the deputy is liable for all official acts of the deputy. If the office of the County officer who appointed the deputy becomes vacant, the deputy may continue to serve despite the vacancy. Each elected County officer appointing a deputy shall, for each deputy appointed, require that the deputy appear before the County Clerk, or a deputy Clerk, to take the oath of office, or shall file a signed writing with the County Clerk that memorializes the proper administration of the oath of office.


===== 2.17 Appeal Of Certain County Recorder Rule Implementations =====
2.17.010 Appeal Right 2.17.020 Notice Of Appeals 2.17.030 Appeal Details


===== 2.17.010 Appeal Right =====
County Recorder decisions may be appealed: by a person with standing that is adversely affected as a result of the Recorder's decision by alleging that the Recorder’s decision did not comply with rules made by the County Recorder Standards Board under Utah Code § 63C-30-202; and only if it is the final decision issued by the Recorder, as appeals of decisions made by supporting staff must be reviewed by the Recorder.


===== 2.17.020 Notice Of Appeals =====
Notices of Appeals must: commence within ten (10) business days of the adverse order, requirement, decision, or determination by filing a written notice of appeal with the County Recorder’s Office; identify the decision being appealed and parties making the appeal; and identify and attach a copy of the rule issued by the County Recorder Standards Board under Utah Code § 63C-30-202 alleged to be implemented incorrectly.


===== 2.17.030 Appeal Details =====
The appellant has the burden of showing the evidence and proving that the Recorder’s decision did not comply with rules made by the County Recorder Standards Board under Utah Code § 63C-30-202. The Appeal Authority shall be the County Commission. When a notice of appeal is filed, the Appeal Authority shall meet at the call of the Commission Chair and any other time the County Commission deems necessary and appropriate. The Appeal Authority shall maintain minutes and records of its proceedings in accordance with the requirements of state and local law. Nothing shall prohibit the Appeal Authority from meeting in conjunction with a regularly scheduled meeting of the County Commission or in conjunction with other meetings that involve the same individuals, such as a meeting of the Board of Equalization. The Appeal Authority may require written briefs or memorandum of the parties as the Appeal Authority deems necessary. At the hearing, the appellant must appear in person or by agent. Using substantial evidence as the standard of review, the Appeal Authority determines the correctness of a decision of the Recorder in its interpretation and application of rules made by the County Recorder Standards Board under Utah Code § 63C-30-202. Only those decisions in which the Recorder has applied rules made by the County Recorder Standards Board under Utah Code § 63C-30-202 may be appealed. The Appeal Authority must issue a decision in writing within fifteen (15) business days of the final hearing, which constitutes a final decision under Utah Code § 17-71-306. Any person adversely affected by a final decision of the Appeal Authority may petition the Fourth District Court for review of the decision as permitted by law. The Appeal Authority may order its decision stayed pending District Court review if the Appeal Authority finds it to be in the best interest of the County.
 3 TAXES / REVENUE / FINANCE 3.01 Transient Room Tax 3.02 Sales And Use Tax 3.03 Tourism, Recreation, Cultural And Convention Facilities Tax 3.04 Real Property Tax Sale Procedures 3.05 911 Access Line Surcharge 3.06 Optional County Sales And Use Tax 3.07 Administration Of Property Tax Refund, Abatement, Payment Agreement, Deferral, Credit And Exemption Requests 3.08 Property Penalty Reductions 3.09 Property Tax Abatement Or Deferral Applications 3.10 Residential Property Tax Exemptions 3.11 [REPEALED] Reassignment Of Personal Property Tax Collection Responsibilities 3.12 County Option Sales And Use Tax For Transportation 3.13 County Of The Second Class Airport, Highway, And Public Transit Sales And Use Tax Of The County Of Utah 3.14 County Option Sales And Use Tax For Systems For Public Transit Of The County Of Utah 3.15 County Option Sales And Use Tax For Highways And Public Transit Of Utah County 3.16 Urban Farming


===== 3.01 Transient Room Tax =====
3.01.010 Title Of Provisions 3.01.020 Purpose Of Provisions 3.01.030 Statutes Adopted By References 3.01.040 Tax Imposed 3.01.050 Exclusions 3.01.060 Convention Bureau Special Reserve Fund 3.01.070 Contributions And Donations Permitted 3.01.080 Audits 3.01.090 Remittance Tax 3.01.100 Appeals 3.01.110 Penalties And Interest 3.01.120 Repealer


===== 3.01.010 Title Of Provisions =====
The ordinance codified in this chapter shall be known as “The Transient Room Tax Ordinance of the County of Utah.”


===== 3.01.020 Purpose Of Provisions =====
The County Commission, as the Legislative Body of Utah County, Utah, declares that the ordinance codified in this chapter is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted to accomplish these purposes:
 to adopt a transient room tax ordinance that complies with the requirements and limitations contained in Utah Code Chapter 17-78 Part 7 and 59-12 Part 3; to adopt a transient room tax ordinance that incorporates provisions identical to those of Utah Code Chapter 17-78 Part 7 and 59-12 Part 3; to adopt a transient room tax ordinance that imposes a tax not to exceed four and one half percent (4.5%), and provide a measure therefor that can be administered by the County in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practical to the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Tax Commission in administering and collecting the sales and use taxes of the state; and to adopt a transient room tax ordinance that can be administered in a manner that will provide funds for the purposes of establishing, financing, and promoting recreation, tourism, film production and conventions, and such other purposes as have been authorized by law for the expenditure of transient room taxes and for that purpose create, at the discretion of the County, a reserve fund comprised of any funds collected but not expended during any financial year.


===== 3.01.030 Statutes Adopted By References =====
Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Utah Code Chapter 17-31 and Utah Code 59-12 Part 3, all of the provisions of Utah Code 59-12 Part 1, known as the Sales and Use Tax Act, and all of the provisions of Utah Code 59-12 Part 2, known as the Local Sales and Use Tax Law of Utah, are hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter as though fully set forth herein to the extent the said provisions are relevant and pertinent to the administration of taxes by the County.


===== 3.01.040 Tax Imposed =====
There is hereby levied on all persons, companies, corporations, or other like and similar persons, groups or organizations doing business in the County as motor courts, tourist homes, motels, hotels, inns, trailer courts or like and similar public accommodations a transient room tax at the rate of four and one half percent (4.5%) of the amounts paid or charged for short-term rentals of tourist home, hotel, motel, or trailer court accommodations and services. Wherever and to the extent that in Utah Code 59-12 Part 1 the State of Utah is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of the County shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the County for the word “state” when that word is used as part of the title of the State Tax Commission, or of the Constitution of the State of Utah. If an annual license has been issued to a retailer under Utah Code § 59-12-106, an additional license shall not be required by reason of this section but a copy of such license shall be provided to the County within thirty (30) days after the effective date of this ordinance.


===== 3.01.050 Exclusions =====
There shall be excluded from the rent paid or charged by which the tax is measured: the amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state or by any other governmental agency upon a retailer or consumer; and receipts from the sale or service charge for any food or beverage or room service charges in conjunction with the occupancy of the suite, room, or rooms.


===== 3.01.060 Convention Bureau Special Reserve Fund =====
For the purposes authorized by this chapter, there is hereby created a reserve fund, to be known as the “Convention Bureau Special Reserve Fund,” which shall be maintained separate and apart from general and other special funds of the County, and in which shall be deposited any and all funds received by virtue of the tax imposed hereby but not expended during the fiscal year in which they were received or in any other subsequent fiscal year.


===== 3.01.070 Contributions And Donations Permitted =====
The County Commission is authorized to accept, on behalf of the County, funds contributed, donated, or supplied by any person, corporation, other governmental agency, or from any other source whatever for the purposes outlined in UCC 3.01.020, and, when such funds are received, they shall be deposited and used in the same manner as though they were derived from the tax imposed hereby.


===== 3.01.080 Audits =====
Any records, tax returns, or other information of any person, corporation, company, or other group or organization subject to the taxes imposed by this chapter which relate to the calculations, collection, or remittance to the County of said taxes shall be subject to review, inspection, and audit by the County or its agent to the extent allowed by Utah Code § 59-12-209. The records of the State Tax Commission relating to the collection of sales and use taxes, or Tourism, Recreation, and Convention Center taxes on the same transactions which are the subject of this tax shall be subject to review and audit as provided in the County’s contract with the State Tax Commission for the collection of the local sales and use tax and as provided by law. The taxpayer shall also be subject to such audits and reviews by the Utah State Tax Commission as are provided for by law.


===== 3.01.090 Remittance Tax =====
The tax shall be collected by the State Tax Commission pursuant to Utah Code § 59-12-302 and remitted to the County as provided therein.


===== 3.01.100 Appeals =====
Any party aggrieved by any action of the County relating to the assessment, auditing, calculation, or collection of the tax, including any Notice of Deficiency issued by the County, may request a hearing by filing a written Request for Redetermination and Hearing with the County Auditor no later than thirty (30) days after the effective date of the County’s action or the date of issuance of the Notice of Deficiency. The party shall have any additional right of administrative appeal to the authorized under Utah State Code.


===== 3.01.110 Penalties And Interest =====
Any person who fails to file any tax return or information required by this chapter, who fails to pay any tax due hereunder, or who fails to timely pay such tax shall be subject to the imposition of penalties and interest by the County in accordance with Utah Code §§ 59-1-401 and 59-1-402 or any successor provision thereto.


===== 3.01.120 Repealer =====
All existing ordinances of the County imposing a transient room tax are hereby repealed as of the effective date of this chapter.


===== 3.02 Sales And Use Tax =====
3.02.010 Title 3.02.020 Purpose 3.02.030 Effective Date 3.02.040 Sales And Use Tax 3.02.050 Penalties


===== 3.02.010 Title =====
This ordinance enacted in this chapter shall be known as the "Sales and Use Tax Ordinance of the County of Utah."


===== 3.02.020 Purpose =====
The 48th Session of the Utah Legislature authorized the counties and municipalities of the State of Utah to enact sales and use tax ordinances imposing a one percent (1%) tax. It is the purpose of this chapter to conform the Sales and Use Tax of the County to the requirements of the Sales and Use Tax Act, Utah Code Chapter 59-12.


===== 3.02.030 Effective Date =====
This chapter shall be effective as of 12:01 a.m., January 1, 1990.


===== 3.02.040 Sales And Use Tax =====
From and after the effective date of this chapter, there is levied and there shall be collected and paid a tax upon every retail sale of tangible personal property, services, and meals made within the County at the rate of one percent (1%). An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in this County of tangible personal property from any retailer on or after the operative date of this chapter at the rate of one percent of the sales price of the property. For the purpose of this chapter all retail sales shall be presumed to have been consummated at the place of business or delivered by the retailer or the retailer’s agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be as determined under the rules and regulations prescribed and adopted by the State Tax Commission. Public utilities as defined by Utah Code Title 54 shall not be obligated to determine the place or places within any county or municipality where public utilities services are rendered, but the place of sale or the sales tax revenue arising from such service allocable to the County shall be as determined by the State Tax Commission pursuant to an appropriate formula and other rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by it. Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of the Sales and Use Tax Act, all of the provisions of Utah Code Chapter 59-12 and in force and effect on the effective date of this chapter, insofar as they relate to sales taxes, excepting Utah Code § 59-12-101 thereof, are hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter as though fully set forth herein. Wherever, and to the extent that in Utah Code Chapter 59-12 the State of Utah is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this County shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this Subsection B shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the County for the word "State" when that word is used as part of the title of the State Tax Commission or of the Constitution of the State of Utah, nor shall the name of the County be substituted for that of the State in any section when the result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against the County or any agency thereof, rather than by or against the State Tax Commission in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of the chapter. If an annual license has been issued to a retailer under Utah Code § 59-12-106, an additional license shall not be required by reason of this section. There shall be excluded from the purchase price paid or charged by which the tax is measured: the amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the State of Utah upon a retailer or consumer; and the gross receipts from the sale of or the cost of storage, use, or other consumption of tangible personal property upon which a sales or use tax has become due by reason of the sale transaction to any municipality and any other county in the State of Utah, under the sales and use tax ordinance enacted by that county or municipality in accordance with the Sales and Use Tax Act.


===== 3.02.050 Penalties =====
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a class B misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punishable by a fine in an amount not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), imprisonment for a period of not more than six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Any violation shall also be subject to the imposition of penalties and interest by the County in accordance with Utah Code § 59-1-401 or any successor provision thereto.


===== 3.03 Tourism, Recreation, Cultural And Convention Facilities Tax =====
3.03.010 Provisions 3.03.020 Statutory Authority 3.03.030 Purpose Of Provisions 3.03.040 Definitions 3.03.050 Imposition - Amount 3.03.060 Use Of Revenues 3.03.070 Collection 3.03.080 Licensure


===== 3.03.010 Provisions =====
This chapter shall be known as the Tourism, Recreation, Cultural, and Convention Facilities Tax of the County of Utah.


===== 3.03.020 Statutory Authority =====
The authority for imposing this tax is derived from Utah Code § 59-12-601 et seq.


===== 3.03.030 Purpose Of Provisions =====
This chapter is reenacted to provide the County with a source of revenue specifically for the purposes of financing in whole or in part tourism promotion, and the development, operation, and maintenance of tourist, recreation, cultural, convention and airport facilities, and the County Commission hereby directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted and construed to accomplish the stated purpose.


===== 3.03.040 Definitions =====
As used in this chapter, all terms shall have the same definitions and meanings as terms defined in Utah Code § 59-12-602 et seq.


===== 3.03.050 Imposition - Amount =====
There is hereby levied a tourism, recreation, cultural, convention, and airport facilities tax on all restaurants, as defined herein, in the County at the rate of one percent (1%) of all sales of prepared food and beverages, or food and food ingredients that are sold by restaurants, pursuant to Utah Code § 59-12-603 (1) (a)(iii). There is hereby levied a tourism, recreation, cultural, convention, and airport facilities tax on all short-term leases and rentals of motor vehicles in the County not exceeding thirty (30) days, except for leases and rentals of motor vehicles made for the purpose of temporarily replacing a person’s motor vehicle that is repaired pursuant to a repair or an insurance agreement, at the rate of seven percent (7%), pursuant to Utah Code § 59-12-603(1)(a)(ii). Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of the Tourism, Recreation, Cultural, Convention, and Airport Facilities Tax Act, all the provisions of Utah Code 59-12 Part 1 which are in force and effect on the effective date of this chapter, are hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter as though fully set forth herein, insofar as they relate to the tax imposed by this chapter, excepting Utah Code § 59-12-101 thereof. Wherever, and to the extent that in Utah Code Chapter 59-12 Part 1 the State of Utah is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of the County shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the County for the word "State" when that word is used as part of the title of the State Tax Commission or of the Constitution of the State of Utah, nor shall the name of the County be substituted for that of the State in any section when the result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against the County or any agency thereof, rather than by or against the State Tax Commission in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of the chapter.


===== 3.03.060 Use Of Revenues =====
The revenues received from the tourism, recreation, cultural, convention, and airport facilities taxes levied pursuant to UCC 3.03.050 shall be used solely for the purposes of financing, in whole or in part, tourism promotion and the development, operation, and maintenance of airport, convention, cultural, recreation, and tourist facilities as defined herein. The Board of County Commissioners may issue bonds under the provisions of the Utah Municipal Bond Act to pay any costs incurred for the purposes set forth above and may pledge the entire proceeds of the tax provided for in this chapter to the payment of principal, interest, premiums, and necessary reserves for any such bonds.


===== 3.03.070 Collection =====
Taxes imposed under this chapter shall be levied at the same time and collected in the same manner as provided for in Utah Code § 59-12-201 et seq., except that the revenue derived from the tax is not subject to the collection and distribution procedures established pursuant to the provisions of Utah Code § 59-12-205(2). All revenues so collected shall be the revenues of the County. As allowed by Utah Code § 59-12-209, any records, tax returns, or other information of any person, corporation, company, or other group or organization subject to the taxes imposed by this chapter which relate to the calculation, collection, or remittance to the State Tax Commission of such taxes shall be subject to review, inspection, and auditing by the County.


===== 3.03.080 Licensure =====
All persons, companies, corporations or other similar persons, groups, or organizations doing business as restaurants shall obtain from the State Tax Commission, a tourism, recreation, cultural, or convention tax license. No such additional license shall be required if the person, company, corporation, group, or organization has obtained a license pursuant to Utah Code § 59-12-106.


===== 3.04 Real Property Tax Sale Procedures =====
3.04.010 Purpose 3.04.020 Bidder Registration Procedures 3.04.030 Redemption Rights And Procedures 3.04.040 Prohibition Of Collusive Bidding 3.04.050 Conflict Of Interest Prohibitions And Disclosure Requirements 3.04.060 Criteria For Accepting Or Rejecting Bids 3.04.070 Sale Ratification Procedures 3.04.080 Criteria For Granting Bidder Preference 3.04.090 Procedures For Recording Tax Deeds 3.04.100 Payment Methods And Procedures 3.04.110 Procedures For Contesting Bids And Sales 3.04.120 Criteria For Striking Properties To The County 3.04.130 Procedures For Disclosing Properties Withdrawn From The Sale For Reasons Other Than Redemption 3.04.140 Disclaimers By The County With Respect To Sale Procedures And Actions 3.04.150 Excess Proceeds 3.04.160 Miscellaneous Procedures HISTORY Amended by Ord. 2022-351 Updated Property Tax Sale Procedures on 5/11/2022 Amended by Ord. 2023-378 Updated Property Tax Sale Procedures on 4/19/2023


===== 3.04.010 Purpose =====
To facilitate the sale of properties certified for the annual real property sale and to provide for a consistency of procedure, when the County Auditor conducts the annual real property tax sale pursuant to Utah Code § 59-2-1351.1, the sale shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.


===== 3.04.020 Bidder Registration Procedures =====
All individuals interested in participating in the annual real property tax sale shall be required to register in order to participate in the tax sale. To reduce confusion after bidding begins, an individual who is registering for a sale that is conducted as an in-person auction shall be required to register and receive a bid number before the sale starts and/or bidding begins. Bidders will not be allowed to register after registration has been closed at the start of the sale and/or bidding begins. Bidders will be required to pay any registration fees and produce any funds for deposit, if required, prior to being issued a bidder number. The bidder agreement, signed by the bidder at registration, shall include a schedule of fees, if required, and shall identify if any fee or portion of fee is non- refundable. An individual who is registering for a sale that is conducted as an online auction shall be required to register as per the requirements of the vendor contracted by the County to conduct the online auction. Bidders will be subject to the terms of service, registration requirements, and payment of fees (both refundable and non- refundable) according to the vendors’ terms of service. An individual interested in bidding for more than one entity shall be required to register separately each such entity in order to bid. Tax deeds will only be prepared in the name of the successful bidder, as provided by the winning bidder during registration.


===== 3.04.030 Redemption Rights And Procedures =====
Property may be redeemed on behalf of the record owner by any person at any time prior to the time that bidding starts on the property at the Tax Sale following the lapse of four years from the date the property tax became delinquent. A person may redeem property by paying to the County Treasurer all delinquent taxes, interest, penalties, and administrative costs that have accrued on the property. If two or more persons own a piece of property on which a delinquency exists, any owner may redeem the owner’s interest in the property upon payment of that portion of the taxes, interest, penalties, and administrative costs which the owner’s interest bears to the whole, as determined by the County Commission. If any property is redeemed, the County Treasurer shall make the proper entry in the record of tax sales filed in the Treasurer’s Office and issue a certificate of redemption, which is prima facie evidence of the redemption, and may be recorded in the office of the County Recorder without acknowledgment.


===== 3.04.040 Prohibition Of Collusive Bidding =====
Collusive bidding is prohibited. All bids should be submitted in the name of a single individual, and the tax deed issued thereafter will only be executed in the name of an individual successful purchaser. Collusive bidding is defined as any agreement or understanding reached by two (2) or more parties that changes the bids the parties would otherwise offer absent the agreement or understanding. The County Auditor and/or the County Commission have the right to reject any bid deemed collusive.


===== 3.04.050 Conflict Of Interest Prohibitions And Disclosure Requirements =====
No employee of any County office connected with the Tax Sale may bid on or benefit from property offered for sale, either directly or indirectly, except where the employee is the record owner or an abutting property owner. Where a business associate or relative of an employee of any County office connected with the Tax Sale desires to participate in the Tax Sale, the bidder must complete a written disclosure of any relationships that might create the appearance of a conflict of interest prior to the sale.


===== 3.04.060 Criteria For Accepting Or Rejecting Bids =====
The following bid types will be accepted: a bid in an amount sufficient to pay the taxes, penalties, interest, and administrative costs for the entire parcel of property; and a bid in an amount sufficient to pay the taxes, penalties, interest, and administrative costs for less than a one hundred percent (100%) undivided interest in the entire parcel of property, but not less than one percent (1%).
 The following bid methods will be used. The County Auditor shall determine which bid method best protects the interests of the property owner and the interest of the public. A competitive bid process in which bidders offer bids in increasing amounts for the entire parcel of property, also known as Bid-Up. A competitive bid process in which bidders offer bids for decreasing amounts of ownership interest as outlined in Subsection F, also known as Undivided Interest.
 The County Auditor shall establish an opening bid that best protects the interests of the property owner and the interest of the public. The opening bid shall be established as: an amount that is not less than is sufficient to pay the taxes, penalties, interest, and administration costs, also known as the minimum opening bid; an amount that is not more than the most recently assessed market value of the property as established by the County Assessor, unless the taxes, penalties, interest, and administration costs are more than the most recently assessed market value of the property, also known as the maximum opening bid; or any other amount between the minimum and maximum as approved by the County Auditor.
 The County Auditor shall determine the bid method for each parcel of property. The bid increments shall be determined by the individual conducting an in-person auction or by the programmed procedures used by an electronic auction vendor, as authorized by the County Auditor. Unless the County Auditor determines that another method of bid more fully protects the interest of the property owner and the interest of the public, the method of bid for the following types of parcels of property shall be Bid­-up: parcels of property which are twenty (20) feet or less in width, at the narrowest point, and which are not condominiums and do not contain dwellings; parcels of property which have an area of one tenth (0.1) acre or less, and which are not condominiums and which do not contain dwellings; and parcels of property for which the ownership interest has been previously divided and the portion being sold at the tax sale is ninety-nine percent (99%) or less undivided ownership interest. Unless the County Auditor determines that another method of bid more fully protects the interest of the property owner and the interest of the public, the method of bid for parcels of property which are not sold by the highest bid for the entire parcel of property shall be Undivided Interest. The first bid shall be for the amount of taxes, penalties, interest, and administrative costs for a one hundred percent (100%) ownership interest in the entire parcel of property. Acceptable subsequent bids shall be for the amount of taxes, penalties, interest, and administrative costs for a lesser undivided percentage ownership interest, but not less than one percent (1%). In the event a bid is received for the amount of taxes, penalties, interest, and administrative costs for an undivided one percent (1%) interest in the entire parcel of property, the method of bid shall be the highest bid amount for the undivided one percent (1%) interest.
 Once the County Auditor has closed the sale of a particular parcel of property as a result of accepting a bid on the parcel, the successful bidder or purchaser of the property may not unilaterally rescind the bid. The County Commission, after the acceptance of a bid, may enforce the terms of the bid by forfeiting any required deposit of the purchaser and obtaining a legal judgment against the purchaser in the amount of the bid, plus interest and attorney's fees.
 Acceptance of a bid by the County Auditor is tentative and is subject to acceptance or rejection by the County Commission. The County Commission may reject any or all bids.
 HISTORY Amended by Ord. 2025-216 Updated Criteria for Accepting or Rejecting Bids on 2/26/2025


===== 3.04.070 Sale Ratification Procedures =====
All bids accepted by the County Auditor at the annual real property tax sale shall be submitted to the County Commission for ratification. Any bid not ratified shall be deemed rejected and the bid amount paid shall be refunded to the bidder minus any non-refundable fee or deposits as required when the bidder submitted their bidder registration.


===== 3.04.080 Criteria For Granting Bidder Preference =====
At the discretion of the County Auditor a parcel of real property may be offered as a Preferred Sale to bidders who are granted Preferred Bidder Status as provided for herein. “Preferred Sale” is the sale of a single, designated parcel of real property being offered for sale at the annual property tax sale in which: only bidders that have been granted Preferred Bidder Status will be able to participate; and if no bids are received during the Preferred Sale, the sale of the designated parcel shall proceed under normal operating procedures (not a Preferred Sale) and all qualified bidders will be able to participate.
 A parcel may be offered as a Preferred Sale if it meets the following criteria: the parcel has been determined not to be an economically viable unit of property to other than a preferential interest based upon consideration of such characteristics as size, shape, access, zoning, or other factors that may affect the economic value and use of the parcel; or a non-preference sale of the parcel would create a nuisance and/or cloud upon an existing interest in the property and could unreasonably diminish the value of such an interest.
 “Preferred Bidder Status” may be granted to bidders who meet the following criteria: the bidder can demonstrate a possessory interest in the parcel being offered for Preferred Sale; or the bidder owns a parcel or parcels that abut the parcel being offered for Preferred Sale.


===== 3.04.090 Procedures For Recording Tax Deeds =====
Upon payment by the successful bidder, the County Treasurer or online auction vendor will issue a temporary receipt. After ratification by the County Commission and after recordation, the County Auditor will mail the Tax Deed to the name and address listed on the bid sheet and bidder registration form. Deeds issued by the County Auditor shall recite the following: the total amount of all the delinquent taxes, penalties, interest, and administrative costs which were paid for the execution and delivery of the deed; the year for which the property was assessed, the year the property became delinquent, and the year the property was subject to tax sale; a full description of the property; and the name of grantee.
 When the deed is executed and delivered by the County Auditor, it shall be prima facie evidence of the regularity of all proceedings subsequent to the date the taxes initially became delinquent and of the conveyance of the property to the grantee in fee simple. The deed issued by the County Auditor under this section shall be recorded by the County Recorder. The fee for the recording shall be included in the administrative costs of the sale.


===== 3.04.100 Payment Methods And Procedures =====
The only acceptable methods of payment for properties purchased at the annual real property tax sale shall be in cash, certified check, money order or other method deemed acceptable by either the County Treasurer or vendor conducting an online auction. No personal checks will be accepted for payment.


===== 3.04.110 Procedures For Contesting Bids And Sales =====
Any person wishing to contest any action taken in conjunction with the annual real property tax sale must file a written protest with the County Commission of the County within thirty (30) days after the date of the annual real property tax sale. The County Commission are not obligated to grant hearings for purposes of contesting a bid or sale and may render a decision based upon all information following a review of submissions provided by the contesting parties. The County Commission may award the property to one of the bidders, reject all bids and order it re-offered for sale, or, upon a finding that it is in the best public interest, withdraw the property from the sale.


===== 3.04.120 Criteria For Striking Properties To The County =====
Any property offered for sale for which there is no purchaser and which it is not in the public interest to withdraw and recertify to a subsequent sale shall be struck off to the County by the County Auditor, who shall then: Publicly declare substantially as follows: “All property here offered for sale which has not been struck off to a private purchaser is hereby struck off and sold to the County of Utah, and I hereby declare the fee simple title of the property to be vested in the County.” Make an endorsement opposite each of the entries in the delinquency tax sale record described in Utah Code § 52-2-1338 substantially as follows: “The fee simple title in the property described in this entry in the year 20 sold and conveyed to the County of Utah in payment of general taxes charged to the property”; and Sign the County Auditor’s name to the record.
 The fee simple title shall then vest in the County.


===== 3.04.130 Procedures For Disclosing Properties Withdrawn From The Sale For Reasons Other Than Redemption =====
The County shall have the right and authority to remove any parcel of property from the annual real property tax sale for any reason at any time before or during the sale. Disclosure will be made by the County Auditor before or during the sale of all properties withdrawn from the sale for reasons other than redemption.


===== 3.04.140 Disclaimers By The County With Respect To Sale Procedures And Actions =====
Properties sold during the annual real property tax sale shall be conveyed by Tax Deed. This form of deed is not a warranty deed. The County makes no representations as to the title conveyed, nor as to the purchaser’s right of possession of the property. Similarly, the County makes no warranties or representations as to whether the property is buildable or developable, nor does the County make any representations regarding whether the property complies with applicable zoning regulations. The County does not warrant or represent that any property purchased during the Tax Sale is habitable or in any particular condition. The County also makes no warranties or representations regarding the accuracy of the assessment of the property or the accuracy of the description of the real estate or improvements thereon. The County attempts to protect the rights of all parties by complying with all notice provisions of Utah Code Title 59. While the County attempts to give notice to all property owners, and those persons, corporations, partnerships, and entities with a substantial interest in the parcels of property, it does not perform a title search on each parcel of property due to budgetary and time constraints, and specific tax sales may be challenged on due process grounds. If, at any time, it comes to the attention of the County that the County failed to notify a necessary party that a parcel of property was included in the annual real property tax sale, the County shall have the option, at any time, to invalidate the sale for the affected parcel. If the County does invalidate the sale of a parcel of property, the County will refund any monies paid by the successful bidder for the parcel at the tax sale minus any non-refundable fees collected at the time of registration. The successful bidder shall then be required to execute a quit-claim deed in favor of the County for the parcel of property in question. All bidders, by bidding at the annual real property tax sale, shall be bound by this provision of the ordinance. Due to the backlog of property transactions at the County Recorder’s Office, the County has the right to delay the issuance of tax deeds for the annual real property tax sale for a period of up to four months.


===== 3.04.150 Excess Proceeds =====
Any amount received in excess of the taxes, interest, penalties, and administrative costs of the delinquent property ("excess proceeds") shall be treated as unclaimed property, pursuant to Utah Code Chapter 67-4a, Unclaimed Property Act. Claims to Excess Proceeds Excess proceeds, except those for which the County receives a notice of a claim as required herein, shall be deposited with the State of Utah under the Unclaimed Property Act and claims may be made under the Unclaimed Property Act. A person or entity wanting to claim excess proceeds, hereinafter "the Claimant", must, within ninety (90) days after the ratification of the tax sale by the County Commission, petition the Utah State Fourth District Court to adjudicate the excess proceeds. Before the expiration of the ninety (90) days, the Claimant must provide a written notice to the County Tax Administration office which includes a copy of the petition filed with the court.
 The Claimant must provide notice to all other persons and entities of which the Claimant is aware that have an interest in the excess proceeds, including all parties with a recorded lien or a recorded ownership interest. The excess proceeds shall be distributed as ordered by the court. Persons making claims to excess proceeds on behalf of the Claimant, in addition to the requirements contained within Subsection B of UCC 3.04.150, shall adhere to the following requirements. Unlicensed "Fee Finders": An unlicensed Fee Finder is defined as any individual or entity that is not a currently licensed attorney, a currently licensed CPA, or CPA firm. Fees for discovering excess proceeds that are in the custody of the County shall be limited to not more than twenty percent (20%) of the amount collected. With the notification to the County as required by Subsection B3 of UCC 3.04.150, the Fee Finder must submit: a signed, dated, and notarized copy of the contract between the Fee Finder and the Claimant which satisfies the requirements of the Unclaimed Property Act and specifies the obligations of the parties as well as the fee arrangement between the finder and claimant; and if the Fee Finder charges a contingent fee, a copy of the active private detective license issued to the finder by the Utah Department of Public Safety, Bureau of Criminal Identification (BCI). A licensed attorney, licensed CPA, or a licensed CPA firm may pursue a claim for recovery of excess proceeds held by the County provided the attorney, CPA, or CPA firm have a contractual relationship with the Claimant.


===== 3.04.160 Miscellaneous Procedures =====
In the event a parcel of property which is subject to the Farmland Assessment Act ("Greenbelt") no longer qualifies for greenbelt status, a rollback tax will then be imposed, which tax shall be in addition to the advertised delinquent tax amount. Such rollback tax shall be the responsibility of the successful bidder of the parcel of property in question. The current year’s taxes for properties included in the annual real property tax sale are not being paid by the successful bidders at the tax sale. Additional taxes for the current year will be due in November of the current year. In the event the entire parcel is purchased at the tax sale, new address forms must be filled out by the successful bidders in order to receive tax notices for the current year. If an undivided interest is sold at the tax sale, tax notices will continue to go to the record owners. After the conclusion of the bidding for the delinquent parcels of property, all bidders will be required to pay their winning bids by the method and within the time frame required by the County Auditor. Any bids for parcels of property which have not been paid within the time frame prescribed may be oﬀered up for auction again or oﬀered to the bidder who placed the second or third highest bid as authorized by the County Auditor. Bidders who fail to pay their bid will be banned from oﬀering any additional bids for any property oﬀered for re‐auction and will forfeit any required deposit. If no bid is received at the re‐auction for the parcel of property or if the winning bidder of the re‐auction also fails to pay the bid, the County Auditor may recommend one of the following actions to the County Commission at the time the sale is put forth to be ratified: recommend the County enforce the original accepted bid as per UCC 3.04.060 subsection G; recommend the County enforce the re‐auction accepted bid as per UCC 3.04.060 subsection G; recommend the auction be declared as a “no‐sale” and the parcel be struck to the County; or recommend the parcel be pulled and oﬀered for sale the following year. Any individual who is a successful bidder for a parcel of property included in the annual real property tax sale and who fails to pay for said parcel will be subject to the following actions by the County Auditor as applicable. The bidder shall be banned from all future Utah County Tax Sales. The County will also provide the banned bidder’s information to the other counties in the state, noting the bidder has been banned from future Utah County tax sales and the reason why. Any bidders wishing to be reinstated may appeal their ban to the County Auditor no less than fourteen (14) months after the ban was instituted. Bidders who attempt to circumnavigate the ban and participate in future auctions without first successfully appealing their ban with the County Auditor, will have their ban extended and not able to appeal the ban for a period of no less than thirty-six (36) months after the date of which the extension was implemented. Bidders with extensions will be required to pay a one‐time appeal filing fee of five hundred dollars ($500) and submit an appeal to the ban in writing to the County Auditor in order to request the ban be lifted. All individuals and entities participating in the annual real property tax sale shall be subject to the County tax sale procedures enumerated in this chapter, together with all additional instructions set forth by the County Auditor and any auction service provider prior to the start of bidding at the annual real property tax sale. HISTORY Amended by Ord. 2024-875 Updated Miscellaneous Procedures on 10/24/2024


===== 3.05 911 Access Line Surcharge =====
3.05.010 Definitions 3.05.020 911 Access Line Surcharge


===== 3.05.010 Definitions =====
As used in this Chapter: “Local exchange service” means the provision of public telecommunications services by a wireline common carrier to customers within a geographic area encompassing one or more local communities as described in the carrier’s service territory maps, tariffs, price lists, or rate schedules filed with and approved by the Public Service Commission.

“Local exchange service switched access line” means the transmission facility and local switching equipment used by a wireline common carrier to connect a customer location to a carrier’s local exchange switching network for providing two-way interactive voice, or voice capable, services.

“911 emergency telephone service” means the communication system which provides citizens with rapid direct access to the public emergency operation center operated by the County by dialing or texting the telephone number “911” with the objective of reducing the response time to situations requiring law enforcement, fire, medical, rescue, and other emergency services.

“Radio communications access line” means the radio equipment and assigned customer identification number used to connect a mobile or fixed radio customer in the County to a radio communication service provider’s network for two-way interactive voice, or voice capable, services.

“Radio communications service” means a public telecommunications service providing the capability of two-way interactive telecommunications between mobile and fixed radio customers, and between mobile or fixed radio customers and the local exchange service network customers of a wireline common carrier. Radio communications service providers include corporations, persons or entities offering cellular telephone service, enhanced specialized mobile radio service, rural radio service, radio common carrier services, personal communications services, and any equivalent wireless public telecommunications service, as defined in 47 CFR, parts 20, 21, 22, 24, and 90.

“Wireline common carrier” means a public telecommunications service provider that primarily uses cables and wires for connecting customers to its local exchange service networks.


===== 3.05.020 911 Access Line Surcharge =====
The County Commission hereby levies a monthly emergency telephone charge on each local exchange service switched access line and each revenue producing radio communications access line within the area served by the 911 emergency telephone service communication system operated by the County, except as provided in Subsection B.
 Access lines provided for public coin telephone service are exempt from emergency telephone charges. A radio communications access line customer with a billing address within the boundaries of the area served by the 911 emergency telephone service communication system operated by the County shall be subject to the emergency telephone charge on a maximum of five (5) radio communications access lines. Access lines located within an area outside the area served by the 911 emergency telephone service communication system operated by the County shall not be subject to the emergency telephone charge.
 The amount of the charge hereby levied is fifty-three cents (53¢) per month for each local exchange service switched access line and fifty-three cents (53¢) per month for each radio communications access line. Notification of the intent to levy this charge shall be given to the Public Service Commission at least thirty (30) days prior to the effective date. The emergency telephone charge levied under this section shall be billed, collected, and remitted by the corporation, person, or entity that provides the local exchange service switched access line services or radio communications access line services to the County. The money received by the County for the provision of 911 emergency telephone service shall be deposited in a special emergency telephone service fund. The money in the emergency telephone service fund shall be expended by the County to pay the costs of establishing, installing, maintaining, and operating a 911 emergency telephone system and/or integrating a 911 system into an established public safety dispatch center, including contracting with the providers of local exchange service, radio communications service, and vendors of appropriate terminal equipment as necessary to implement the 911 emergency telephone service. Revenues derived for the funding of 911 emergency telephone service may only be used for that portion of costs related to the operation of the 911 emergency telephone system when such a system is integrated with any public safety dispatch system.


===== 3.06 Optional County Sales And Use Tax =====
3.06.010 Title Of Provisions 3.06.020 Statutory Authority 3.06.030 Purpose Of Provisions 3.06.040 Imposition - Amount 3.06.050 Incorporation Of State Law 3.06.060 Administration, Collection And Distribution By State 3.06.070 Exemptions 3.06.080 Effective Date


===== 3.06.010 Title Of Provisions =====
The ordinance codified in this chapter shall be known as the “Optional County Sales and Use Tax.”


===== 3.06.020 Statutory Authority =====
The authority for imposing this tax is derived from Utah Code Chapter 59-12 Part 11.


===== 3.06.030 Purpose Of Provisions =====
The ordinance codified in this chapter is enacted to provide the County with a source of revenue to allow the County to carry out its role more effectively as a political and legal subdivision of the State of Utah. The County Commission hereby directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted and construed to accomplish this stated purpose.


===== 3.06.040 Imposition - Amount =====
In addition to all other taxes imposed, the County does hereby impose and levy for collection a sales and use tax of one quarter percent (0.25%) upon the sales and uses described in Utah Code § 59-12-103(1), subject to the exemptions provided for in Utah Code § 59- 12-104. This tax is imposed upon all sales and uses made in the County, including sales and uses made within the corporate limits of the cities and towns of the County. Provisions of this ordinance shall be subject to the provisions of the Sales and Use Tax laws of Utah to which reference is hereafter made in this chapter and which are hereby enacted and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.


===== 3.06.050 Incorporation Of State Law =====
Except as hereinafter provided and except insofar as they are inconsistent with provisions of the County Option Sales and Use Tax Act, all of the provisions of Utah Code Chapter 59-12 Part 1 in force and effect on the effective date of this ordinance insofar as they relate to the tax imposed by this ordinance except Utah Code § 59-12-101, thereof, are adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein. Wherever and to the extent that in Utah Code Chapter 59-12 Part 1 the State of Utah is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this County shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the County for the word “state” when that word is used as part of the title of the State Tax Commission, or the Constitution of the State of Utah, nor shall the name of the County be substituted for that of the state in any section when the result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against the County or any agency thereof, rather than by or against the State Tax Commission in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this ordinance.


===== 3.06.060 Administration, Collection And Distribution By State =====
Taxes imposed pursuant to this chapter shall be levied at the same time and collected in the same manner as provided for in Utah Code § 59-12-201, et. seq., except that the revenue derived from the tax is not subject to the collection and distribution procedures established pursuant to the provisions of Utah Code § 59-12-205(2). Revenues collected pursuant to this ordinance shall be distributed in accordance with Utah Code 59-12-1102(3) and the rules adopted by the Utah State Tax Commission pursuant to Utah Code § 59-12-1102(3)(d). All revenues so collected shall be revenues of either the County or any other county entitled to distribution of the same pursuant to the statute. Any records, tax returns or other information of any person, corporation, company, or other group or organization subject to the taxes imposed by this ordinance which relate to the calculation, collection, or remittance to the State Tax Commission of such taxes shall be subject to review, inspection, and auditing by the County, as allowed under Utah Code § 59-12-209. The fee charged the County by the State Tax Commission under Utah Code § 59-12-206 shall be based on the distribution amount resulting after all the applicable distribution calculations under Utah Code § 59-12-1102(3) have been made.


===== 3.06.070 Exemptions =====
The sale, storage, use, or other consumption of tangible personal property which is exempt from sales or use taxation pursuant to Utah Code § 59-12-104 is exempt from the application of the Optional County Sales and Use Tax.


===== 3.06.080 Effective Date =====
The tax imposed by this chapter shall take effect January 1, 1998.


===== 3.07 Administration Of Property Tax Refund, Abatement, Payment Agreement, Deferral, Credit And Exemption Requests =====
3.07.010 Uniform Policies Established 3.07.020 Processing Requests For Property Tax Refund, Abatement, Payment Agreement, Deferral, Credit And Exemption


===== 3.07.010 Uniform Policies Established =====
To provide consistency of procedure and uniformity of application in the processing of requests for property tax refunds, abatements, payment agreements, deferrals, credits, and exemptions, including related penalties and interest, under Utah Code §§ 59-2-1106, 59-2-19, 59-2-1115, 59-2-1321, 59-2-1347, and 59-2-1201
through 59-2-1220, the County Commission finds it to be in the best interest of the public welfare to establish uniform standards and policies governing such requests.


===== 3.07.020 Processing Requests For Property Tax Refund, Abatement, Payment Agreement, Deferral, Credit And Exemption =====
Unless otherwise provided for herein, all requests for refund, abatement, payment agreement, deferral, credit or exemption of property taxes, and related penalties or interest, under Utah Code §§ 59-2-1106, 59-2-19, 59-2-1115, 59-2-1321, 59-2-1347, and 59-2-1201 through 59-2-1220 shall be by written application, shall set forth the specific basis for the request and shall include all evidence supporting the request. A decision shall be made on each request based upon the submitted materials, unless the County Commission desires further input from the applicant and takes action in a public meeting to place the matter on the commission agenda for further review. Except as specifically otherwise authorized herein or by official action of the County Commission, each request for refund, abatement, payment agreement, deferral, credit, or exemption of property taxes, and related penalties or interest, shall be referred to the property tax officer for review and recommendation. The property tax officer shall be an attorney from the civil division of the County Attorney’s Office, designated by the County Commission. The property tax officer may request recommendations from involved county offices, may request additional information from the applicant, and may request that the applicant appear to address issues raised by the application. The property tax officer shall review all of the submitted materials and information and shall then provide a recommendation on the application to the County Commission. The County Commission shall review the submitted materials and the recommendation of the property tax officer and shall then take action on the request, based upon the submitted materials. Routine corrections and abatements initiated by individual county offices shall be submitted directly to the County Commission for action. The property owner is responsible for the timely payment of the applicable property taxes, and no mistake in the name or address of a property owner renders a tax assessment invalid. Any refund amount that is approved shall first be applied to any known existing delinquency for that property, then to any known existing delinquency on any other property owned by the applicant, and then refunded to the party making the excess payment. Applications for exemptions of taxable tangible personal property with a total aggregate fair market value that is at or below the statutorily prescribed amount shall be processed as follows: Applications for property tax exemptions of taxable tangible personal property with a total aggregate fair market value that is at or below the statutorily prescribed amount pursuant to Utah Code § 59-2-1115 shall be administratively processed by the Office of the County Assessor. The County Assessor is hereby authorized to administratively exempt the personal property tax upon the receipt of a complete application and the determination that the applicant qualifies for the exemption under Utah Code § 59-2-1115. Applications must satisfy the requirements herein and comply with state code and otherwise contain the information and attached documentation deemed necessary by the County Assessor. The County Assessor shall provide notice to an applicant under this chapter, including the determination made regarding the application for exemption. The determination made by the County Assessor as provided for herein shall constitute the decision and determination of the County Commission, or as appropriate the Board of Equalization.
 Tax relief under the statutory armed forces exemption, blind exemption, indigent abatement, and circuit breaker tax credits shall be processed as follows: Applications for tax relief under the statutory armed forces exemption, blind exemption, indigent abatement, pursuant to Utah Code §§ 59-2-1106 and 59-2-19, and circuit breaker tax credit, pursuant to Utah Code §§ 59-2-1201 through 59-2-1220, shall be administratively processed by the County Auditor’s Office. The County Auditor is hereby authorized to administratively exempt, abate or apply the tax credit as applied for upon the receipt of a complete application and the determination that the applicant qualifies for the exemption under the appropriate Utah Code §§ 59-2-1106 and 59-2-19 or 59-2-1201 through 59-2-1220. Applications must satisfy the requirements herein and comply with state code and otherwise contain the information and attached documentation deemed necessary by the County Auditor. The County Auditor shall provide notice to an applicant under this chapter including the determination made regarding the application for exemption, abatement, or tax credit. The determination made by the County Auditor as provided for herein shall constitute the decision and determination of the County Commission, or as appropriate the Board of Equalization.


===== 3.08 Property Penalty Reductions =====
3.08.010 Purpose 3.08.020 Personal Property Penalty Reduction Not Based On County Error 3.08.030 Personal Property Penalty Waiver And Reduction Based On County Error 3.08.040 Real Property Penalty Reduction Not Based On County Error 3.08.050 Real Property Penalty Waiver And Reduction Based On County Error HISTORY Amended by Ord. 2025-161 Updated Property Penalty Reductions on 2/12/2025


===== 3.08.010 Purpose =====
The purpose of this chapter is to establish the procedure pursuant to Utah Code § 59-2-307(2)(a) for the review and approval of reductions and waivers for penalties imposed for: failure to timely file a signed statement required by Utah Code § 59-2-306; failure to timely file a signed statement with respect to name and place of residence; failure to appear and testify; or penalties and interest imposed on real property.


===== 3.08.020 Personal Property Penalty Reduction Not Based On County Error =====
The County Commission hereby authorizes the Office of the County Assessor to reduce the penalty imposed by Utah Code § 59-2-307(1) to zero dollars ($0) if the tax amount for the subject year is two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) or less, based upon an appropriately filed request for reduction or waiver, establishing the best human interests and the interests of the State and the County are served, and by a finding that each of the following requirements are met: the assessment of the penalty was not caused by a County error; all taxes for the current year and for all prior years have been paid in full; the tax amount for the subject year does not exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00); the penalty has been assessed because of a failure to file the signed statement required by Utah Code § 59-2-306 or because of a failure to file the signed statement with respect to name and place of residence; the current owner has not been assessed a penalty under Utah Code § 59-2-307(1), related to any of the prior three (3) tax years; and the owner has filed the delinquent signed statement prior to or at the time of filing the request for reduction or waiver of the penalty. The County Assessor shall provide notice to an applicant under this chapter including the determination made regarding the application for reduction of penalty. The determination made by the County Assessor as provided for herein shall constitute the decision and determination of the County Commission.


===== 3.08.030 Personal Property Penalty Waiver And Reduction Based On County Error =====
Where the County Assessor finds that an error made by the County precipitated assessment of the penalty under Utah Code § 59-2-307, the penalty and interest may be reduced or waived.


===== 3.08.040 Real Property Penalty Reduction Not Based On County Error =====
The County Commission, acting under authority granted in Utah Code § 59-2-1347, hereby authorizes the Office of the County Treasurer to reduce the penalty and interest imposed by Utah Code § 59-2-1331 to zero dollars ($0) if the tax amount for the subject year is five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) or less, based upon an appropriately filed request for reduction or waiver, establishing the best human interests and the interests of the State and the County are served, and by a finding that each of the following requirements are met:
 the assessment of the penalty was not caused by a County error; all taxes for all prior years have been paid in full; the penalty has been assessed because of a failure to meet Property Tax due date requirements outlined in Utah Code § 59-2-1331; the tax amount for the subject year does not exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000.00); the current owner has not been assessed a penalty under Utah Code§ 59-2-1331, related to any of the prior three (3) tax years; the owner has submitted an application to the County Treasurer's Office. The County Treasurer shall provide notice to an applicant under this chapter including the determination made regarding the application for reduction of penalty. The determination made by the County Treasurer as provided for herein shall constitute the decision and determination of the County Commission.


===== 3.08.050 Real Property Penalty Waiver And Reduction Based On County Error =====
Where the County Treasurer finds that an error made by the County precipitated assessment of the penalty under Utah Code § 59-2-1331, the penalty and interest may be reduced or waived.


===== 3.09 Property Tax Abatement Or Deferral Applications =====
3.09.010 Applications Based On Financial Hardship 3.09.020 Applications For Property Tax Abatement Or Deferral Not Based On Extreme Financial Hardship


===== 3.09.010 Applications Based On Financial Hardship =====
The County Commission may grant an application for abatement or deferral of property taxes under Utah Code §§ 59-2-18 for a person under the age of 65 years based on disability, or based on extreme financial hardship, upon a finding by the County Commission that each of the following requirements are met:
 the applicant is in extreme financial hardship which is not an intended result of voluntary actions by the applicant, or by members of the applicant’s household; or, the applicant is disabled and is either receiving Social Security disability payments or meets the requirements to receive such payments; the applicant, and other members of the applicant’s household, do not have resources or sources of funds to pay the taxes; provided, however, that equity in the applicant’s residence shall not be considered as a source of funds if the amount of the equity is less than the amount of the primary personal residence exemption provided for under Utah Code § 78B-5-503(2); the applicant is not the owner of income producing assets that could be liquidated to pay the tax; the best human interests are served by the abatement or deferral; the interests of the State of Utah and of the County are served by the abatement or deferral; the applicant meets all of the requirements under Utah Code § 59-2-18, has filed a complete application and documentation establishing the nature and extent of the disability, or the nature and extent of the extreme financial hardship, and has submitted financial information and documentation establishing the applicant’s total household income as defined by Utah Code § 59-2-1202, provided that if the household income for the preceding year does not reflect the current household income, the applicant shall establish the applicant’s current household income with a detailed explanation of the factual basis for the difference between the preceding year’s and current year’s household income; the property is the sole residence of the applicant; the applicant is unable to meet the tax assessed on the applicant’s residence as the tax becomes due; and in the case of a deferral, the applicant has filed the written consent of the holder of each mortgage and trust deed outstanding on the property. The County Commission may grant an application for abatement or deferral of property taxes under Utah Code §§ 59-2-18 for a person the age of 65 years or older, upon a finding by the County Commission that each of the following requirements are met: the applicant is unable to meet the tax assessed on the applicant’s residence as the tax becomes due and the inability to meet the tax assessed is not an intended result of voluntary actions by the applicant, or by members of the applicant’s household; the applicant is not the owner of income producing assets that could be liquidated to pay the tax; the best human interests are served by the abatement or deferral; the interests of the State of Utah and of the County are served by the abatement or deferral; the applicant meets all of the requirements under Utah Code §§ 59-2- 18, has filed a complete application and documentation establishing the factual basis for the application, and has submitted financial information and documentation establishing the applicant’s total household income as defined by Utah Code § 59-2-1202, provided that if the household income for the preceding year does not reflect the current household income, the applicant shall establish the applicant’s current household income with a detailed explanation of the factual basis for the difference between the preceding year’s and current year’s household income; the property is the sole residence of the applicant; and in the case of a deferral, the applicant has filed the written consent of the holder of each mortgage and trust deed outstanding on the property.
 The County Commission may grant an application for abatement or deferral of property taxes under Utah Code § 59-2-1347 based on extreme financial hardship, upon a finding by the County Commission that each of the following requirements are met: the applicant is in extreme financial hardship which is not an intended result of voluntary actions by the applicant, or by members of the applicant’s household; the applicant, and other members of the applicant’s household, do not have resources or sources of funds to pay the taxes; provided, however, that equity in the applicant’s residence shall not be considered as a source of funds if the amount of the equity is less than the amount of the primary personal residence exemption provided for under Utah Code § 78B-5-503; the best human interests are served by the abatement or deferral; the interests of the State of Utah and of the County are served by the abatement or deferral; the applicant has filed a complete application and documentation establishing the factual basis for the application and has submitted financial information and documentation establishing the applicant’s total household income as defined by Utah Code § 59-2-1202, provided that if the household income for the preceding year does not reflect the current household income, the applicant shall establish the applicant’s current household income with a detailed explanation of the factual basis for the difference between the preceding year’s and current year’s household income; the property is the sole residence of the applicant; the applicant is unable to meet the tax assessed on the applicant’s residence as the tax becomes due; and in the case of a deferral, the applicant has filed the written consent of the holder of each mortgage and trust deed outstanding on the property.


===== 3.09.020 Applications For Property Tax Abatement Or Deferral Not Based On Extreme Financial Hardship =====
The County Commission may grant applications for abatement or deferral of property taxes under Utah Code § 59-2-1347, not based on extreme financial hardship, upon a finding by the County Commission that each of the following requirements are met: the best human interests are served by the abatement or deferral; the interests of the State of Utah and of the County are served by the abatement or deferral; the applicant has filed a complete application and documentation establishing the factual basis for the application;
 in the case of a deferral or payment agreement, the applicant has filed the written consent of the holder of each mortgage and trust deed outstanding on the property and has signed a written deferral agreement, or payment agreement, in a form acceptable to the County; in the case of a request to abate a real property tax penalty or interest, based upon an alleged failure of the County to provide the tax notice to the correct address, the applicant has also submitted a copy of the last recorded deed vesting title in the applicant, and a copy of any address change request allegedly filed by the applicant; in the case of a request to abate a real property tax penalty or interest filed with the County not later than March 31st of the year following the imposition of the penalty, based upon an alleged failure of the County to provide the tax notice to the correct address, the applicant did not have actual notice of the tax notice, the County did not mail the tax notice to the record owner as of January 1st of the year in question, the County did not mail the tax notice to a subsequent record owner, the County did not mail the tax notice to the address located on the last recorded deed vesting title in the applicant, and the penalty and interest were imposed solely as a result of an error by the County; and in the case of a request to abate a real property tax penalty or interest filed with the County after March 31st of the year following the imposition of the penalty, based upon an alleged failure of the County to provide the tax notice to the correct address, the applicant did not have actual notice of the tax notice, the County did not mail the tax notice to the record owner as of January 1st of the year in question, the County did not mail the tax notice to a subsequent record owner, the County did not mail the tax notice to the address located on the last recorded deed vesting title in the applicant, the penalty and interest were imposed solely as a result of an error by the County, and the complete application was filed with the County not later than September 30th of the year following the imposition of the penalty, unless the Board of County Commissioners extends the deadline based upon a finding of exceptional circumstances (only the penalty, not the interest, can be abated if the application is filed after March 31st of the year following the imposition of the penalty).


===== 3.10 Residential Property Tax Exemptions =====
3.10.010 Authority And Purpose 3.10.020 Procedure 3.10.030 Criteria 3.10.040 Grandfather Provision


===== 3.10.010 Authority And Purpose =====
The Utah Constitution, Article XIII, Section 3(22) and Utah Code §§ 59-2-102(32) and 103(3) provide that a residential exemption from property tax of forty-five percent (45%) is available for “primary residences,” and the Utah Legislature enacted Utah Code § 59-2-103.5 establishing procedures to obtain an exemption for residential property and authorizing the county legislative body to adopt an ordinance for the allowance of a residential exemption for residential property.


===== 3.10.020 Procedure =====
All owners of residential property as defined in Utah Code § 59-2-102(34) shall submit an application to the Board of Equalization no later than March 1 of the current tax year for exemption from property taxes for residential property used as a primary residence. A separate application shall be filed for each parcel of property. The application shall include the following information for each specific parcel of property for which the exemption is requested: the owner(s) of record of the property; the property parcel number; the location of the property; the basis of the owner’s knowledge of the use of the property; a description of the use of the property; evidence of domicile of the inhabitant(s) of the property; and the signature of all owners of the property certifying that the property is residential property.
 In the event that an application is not timely filed, an appeal to file a late application may be granted by the Board of Equalization, upon a finding of good cause, on an individual appeal basis, for the current tax year only. Applications for exemption shall be accepted for the current year only.
 Except for nursing homes, mixed commercial and residential use properties, and all properties receiving a partial residential exemption, all of which are required to file an application each year, if the Board of Equalization allows an owner the residential exemption, the Board may not require the owner to file another signed statement in order to receive the residential exemption for that property unless; the property did not receive the residential exemption during the calendar year immediately preceding the calendar year for which the owner is seeking to claim the residential exemption for that residential property; any ownership interest in the property changes; or
 the Board of Equalization determines that there is reason to believe that the property no longer qualifies for the residential exemption in accordance with Utah Code § 59-2-103.
 Submission of the application authorizes the Assessor to request or collect information sufficient to allow the Board of Equalization to verify the primary residence status and make the determination if the property is entitled to receive the residential exemption. If an applicant requests a property be designated as a primary residence, the residential exemption shall not be granted without evidence that the property serves as the primary residence. The burden of proof shall remain at all times with the applicant.


===== 3.10.030 Criteria =====
A primary residence means the location where domicile has been established. “Domicile” means the place where an individual has a true, fixed, permanent home and principal establishment, and to which place he has (whenever he is absent) the intention of returning. It is the place in which a person has voluntarily fixed the habitation of himself and family, not for a mere special or temporary purpose, but with the present intention of making a permanent home. After domicile has been established, two (2) things are necessary to create a new domicile: first, an abandonment of the old domicile; and second, the intention and establishment of a new domicile. The mere intention to abandon a domicile once established is not of itself sufficient to create a new domicile; a new domicile must also be shown. A person can have only one domicile. A household can qualify for only one residential exemption, except for rental property where the property is the primary residence of the tenant, and except for property under construction where the assessor determines that the property will qualify as a primary residence after construction is complete. Factors or objective evidence determinative of domicile are set forth in Utah Administrative Code Rule 884-24P-52. To qualify for the residential exemption, a property need not be owner occupied. Apartments and other rental housing used as a primary residence of the occupant(s) qualify for the residential exemption upon accepted application in accordance with this chapter. A primary residence does not include property used for transient residential use, or condominiums used in rental pools. In addition to other evidence of domicile, only the primary residence which is occupied more than six (6) months out of the year qualifies for the residential exemption. The residential exemption is limited to up to one (1) acre of land per residential dwelling unit on a single property description. A partial exemption may be applied against the property taxes of mixed commercial and residential property, but it is presumed that the entire property is commercial. This presumption may be rebutted by the filing of the application for residential exemption, as described in this chapter, every year prior to March 1st, which includes evidence of domicile of each qualifying resident. The Board of Equalization may require additional information as necessary to determine the percentage of the property qualifying for the residential exemption. A partial exemption may be applied against the property taxes of qualifying nursing homes, but it is presumed that the entire property is commercial. This presumption may be rebutted by the applicant. In addition to the other information required by this chapter, the application, which must be filed every year prior to March 1st, shall include the number of residents living at the facility, the name and street address of each resident living at the facility, the current name and street address of the spouse of each resident who is married, the property tax serial number of each residential property in which the resident (or the resident’s spouse) holds an ownership interest, a sworn statement signed by each qualifying resident certifying that the resident lived at the facility for more than six (6) months out of the prior year and that neither the resident nor any spouse of the resident receives the residential exemption based on a domicile at any other property, the total square footage of the facility, and the total non-residential square footage. The Board of Equalization may require additional information as necessary to determine the percentage of eligibility of the property for the exemption.


===== 3.10.040 Grandfather Provision =====
As of the effective date of this chapter, a property that is currently listed by the County as having a residential exemption and is an owner occupied residential property, apartment, and other rental property that is being used as the primary residence of the occupants (not including nursing homes or mixed commercial and residential use properties) shall not be required to file an application to continue its status, unless the Board of Equalization or the Assessor determines that there is reason to believe that the property no longer qualifies for the residential exemption in accordance with Utah Code § 59-2-103, or any ownership interest in the property changes. A property that is initially listed by the County as having a residential exemption; is an owner occupied residential property, apartment, and other rental property that is being used as the primary residence of the occupants (not including nursing homes or mixed commercial and residential use properties); and is constructed after the effective date of this ordinance, shall not be required to file the residential exemption application, unless the County Board of Equalization or the Assessor determines that there is reason to believe that the property no longer qualifies for the residential exemption in accordance with Utah Code § 59-2-103, or any ownership interest in the property changes.


===== 3.11 [REPEALED] Reassignment Of Personal Property Tax Collection Responsibilities =====



===== 3.12 County Option Sales And Use Tax For Transportation =====
3.12.010 Title Of Provisions 3.12.020 Statutory Authority 3.12.030 Purpose Of Provisions 3.12.040 Imposition - Amount 3.12.050 Incorporation Of State Law 3.12.060 Administration, Collection, Enforcement And Distribution By State 3.12.070 Exemptions 3.12.080 Effective Date


===== 3.12.010 Title Of Provisions =====
The ordinance codified in this chapter shall be known as the “County Option Sales and Use Tax for Transportation Ordinance of Utah County.”


===== 3.12.020 Statutory Authority =====
The authority for imposing this tax is derived from Utah Code Chapter 59-12 Part 22.


===== 3.12.030 Purpose Of Provisions =====
The ordinance codified in this chapter is enacted to provide the County with a source of revenue to allow the County to carry out its role more effectively as a political and legal subdivision of the State of Utah. The County Commission hereby directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted and construed to accomplish this stated purpose.


===== 3.12.040 Imposition - Amount =====
In addition to all other taxes imposed, the County does hereby impose and levy for collection a sales and use tax of three-tenths percent (0.30%) upon the sales and use transactions described in Utah Code § 59-12-103(1), subject to the exemptions provided for in Utah Code § 59-12-104. This tax is imposed upon all sales and use transactions made in the County, including sales and use transactions made within the corporate limits of the cities and towns of the County. Provisions of this ordinance shall be subject to the provisions of the Sales and Use Tax laws of Utah to which reference is hereafter made in this chapter and which are hereby enacted and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.


===== 3.12.050 Incorporation Of State Law =====
Except as hereinafter provided and except insofar as they are inconsistent with provisions of the County Option Sales and Use Tax for Transportation Ordinance of Utah County, all provisions of Utah Code Chapter 59-12 Part 1 which are in force and effect on the effective date of this ordinance insofar as they relate to the tax imposed by this ordinance except Utah Code § 59-12-101, are adopted and made a part of this chapter as though fully set forth herein. Wherever and to the extent that in Utah Code Chapter 59-12 Part 1 the State of Utah is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of the County shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the County for the word “state” when that word is used as part of the title of the State Tax Commission, or the Constitution of the State of Utah, nor shall the name of the County be substituted for that of the state in any section when the result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against the County or any agency thereof, rather than by or against the State Tax Commission in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this chapter.


===== 3.12.060 Administration, Collection, Enforcement And Distribution By State =====
Taxes imposed pursuant to this chapter shall be administered, enforced and levied at the same time and collected in the same manner as provided for in Utah Code Chapter 59-12 Parts 1 and 2, and 59-1, except that the revenue derived from the tax is not subject to the collection and distribution procedures established pursuant to the provisions of Utah Code §§ 59-12-205(2) through (6). Revenues collected pursuant to this ordinance shall be distributed in accordance with Utah Code Chapter 59-12 Part 22. All revenues so collected shall be revenues of the County. Any records, tax returns or other information of any person, corporation, company, or other group or organization subject to the taxes imposed by this ordinance which relate to the calculation, collection, or remittance to the State Tax Commission of such taxes shall be subject to review, inspection, and auditing by the County. Any fee charged the County by the State Tax Commission under Utah Code § 59-12-206 shall be based on the distribution amount resulting after all the applicable distribution calculations under Utah Code § 59-2-1102(3) have been made.


===== 3.12.070 Exemptions =====
The sale, storage, use, or other consumption of tangible personal property which is exempt from sales or use taxation pursuant to Utah Code § 59-12-104 is exempt from the application of the County Option Sales and Use Tax for Transportation Ordinance of Utah County.


===== 3.12.080 Effective Date =====
The tax imposed by this chapter shall take effect April 1, 2007.


===== 3.13 County Of The Second Class Airport, Highway, And Public Transit Sales And Use Tax Of The County Of Utah =====
3.13.010 Provisions 3.13.020 Statutory Authority 3.13.030 Purpose Of Provisions 3.13.040 Definitions 3.13.050 Imposition - Amount 3.13.060 Use Of Revenues 3.13.070 Collection 3.13.080 Licensure


===== 3.13.010 Provisions =====
This chapter shall be known as the County of the Second Class Airport, Highway, and Public Transit Sales and Use Tax of the County of Utah.


===== 3.13.020 Statutory Authority =====
The authority for imposing this tax is derived from Utah Code § 59-12-2218, et seq.


===== 3.13.030 Purpose Of Provisions =====
This chapter is enacted to provide the County with a source of revenue specifically for the purposes of financing in whole or in part the construction of a state highway within the County, designated under Utah Code Chapter 72-4 Part 1; a local highway of regional significance within the County; a project relating to a system for public transit within the County; a fixed guideway within the County; or for a project or service relating to an airport facility within the County. The County Commission hereby directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted and construed to accomplish the stated purpose.


===== 3.13.040 Definitions =====
As used in this chapter:
 “Airport facility” is as defined in Utah Code § 59-12-602. “Fixed guideway” is as defined in Utah Code § 59-12-102. “Local highway of regional significance” means a local highway that is a: principal arterial highway as defined in Utah Code § 72-4-102.5; minor arterial highway as defined in Utah Code § 72-4-102.5, 1953; major collector highway as defined in Utah Code § 72-4-102.5; or minor collector road as defined in Utah Code § 72-4-102.5. “Public transit” is as defined in Utah Code §17B-2a-802.


===== 3.13.050 Imposition - Amount =====
There is hereby levied a county of the second class airport, highway, and public transit sales and use tax on all transactions described in Utah Code § 59-12- 103(1) within the County, including the cities and towns within the County, at the rate of one quarter percent (0.25%). Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of the County of the Second Class Airport, Highway, and Public Transit Sales and Use Tax Act, all of the provisions of Utah Code 59-12 Part 1 and in force and effect on the effective date of this Chapter, insofar as they relate to the tax imposed by this Chapter, excepting Utah Code § 59-12-101, are hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter as though fully set forth herein. Wherever, and to the extent that in Utah Code Chapter 59-12 Part 1 the State of Utah is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of the County shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this Subsection B2 shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the County for the word "State" when that word is used as part of the title of the State Tax Commission, or of the Constitution of the State of Utah, nor shall the name of the County be substituted for that of the State in any section when the result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against the County or any agency thereof, rather than by or against the State Tax Commission in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of the chapter.


===== 3.13.060 Use Of Revenues =====
The revenues received from the County of the Second Class Airport, Highway, and Public Transit Sales and Use taxes levied pursuant to UCC 3.13.050 shall be expended as follows: one tenth percent (0.10%) to be deposited into the County of the Second Class State Highway Projects Fund created by Utah Code § 72-2-117.5; one half percent (0.5%) to be deposited into the Local Transportation Corridor Preservation Fund created by Utah Code § 72-2-117.5; and as determined by the County Commission, one tenth percent (0.10%) to be: deposited into the County of the Second Class State Highway Projects Fund created by Utah Code § 72-2-121.2; expended for: a state highway designated under Utah Code 72-4 Part 1, Designation of State Highways Act; a local highway of regional significance; or a combination of Subsections 3b(1) and 3b(2); expended for a project or service relating to a system for public transit for the portion of the project or service that is performed within the County; expended for a project or service relating to a fixed guideway for the portion of the project or service that is performed within the County; expended for a project or service relating to an airport facility: if the airport facility is part of the regional transportation plan of the area metropolitan planning organization; for the portion of the project or service that is performed within the County; expended for: a class B road, as defined in Utah Code § 72-3-103; a class C road, as defined in Utah Code § 72-3-104; a combination of Subsections 3f(1) and 3f(2); expended for traffic and pedestrian safety, including: for a class B road, as defined in Utah Code § 72-3-103 for: a sidewalk; curb and gutter; a safety feature;
 a traffic sign; a traffic signal; a combination of Subsections 3g(1)(A) through 3g(1)(E); the construction of an active transportation facility that: is for nonmotorized vehicles and multimodal transportation; and connections an origin with a destination; or a combination of Subsections 3g(1) and 3g(2); or
 deposited or expended for a combination of Subsections 3a through 3g.
 The County Commission may issue bonds under the provisions of the Utah Municipal Bond Act to pay any costs incurred for the purposes set forth above and may pledge the entire proceeds of the tax provided for in this chapter to the payment of principal, interest, premiums, and necessary reserves for any such bonds.
 The County of the Second Class Airport, Highway, Public Transit Sales and Use tax will not be imposed on: the sales and uses described in Utah Code § 59-12-104 to the extent the sales and uses are exempt from taxation under said Utah Code § 59-12-104; any amounts paid or charged by a seller that collects a tax under Utah Code § 59-12-107(1)(b); or except as provided in Subsection D, amounts paid or charged for food and food ingredients. The County of the Second Class Airport, Highway, Public Transit Sales and Use tax shall be imposed on amounts paid or charged for food and food ingredients if: the food and food ingredients are sold as part of a bundled transaction attributable to food and food ingredients and tangible personal property other than food and food ingredients; and the seller collecting the tax is a seller other than a seller that collects a tax in accordance with Utah Code § 59-12-107(1)(b).


===== 3.13.070 Collection =====
Taxes imposed under this chapter shall be levied at the same time and collected in the same manner as provided for in Utah Code § 59-12-201, et seq., except that the revenue derived from the tax is not subject to the collection and distribution procedures established pursuant to the provisions of Utah Code § 59-12- 205(2). All revenues so collected shall be the revenues of the County. Any records, tax returns, or other information of any person, corporation, company, or other group or organization subject to the taxes imposed by this chapter which relate to the calculation, collection, or remittance to the State Tax Commission of said taxes shall be subject to review, inspection, and auditing by the County.


===== 3.13.080 Licensure =====
All persons, companies, corporations or other similar persons, groups, or organizations doing business within the County, that are subject to the provisions of Utah Code § 59-12-103(1) shall obtain a sales and use tax license from the State Tax Commission. No such additional license shall be required if the person, company, corporation, group, or organization has previously obtained a license pursuant to Utah Code § 59-12-106.


===== 3.14 County Option Sales And Use Tax For Systems For Public Transit Of The County Of Utah =====
3.14.010 Title Of Provisions 3.14.020 Statutory Authority 3.14.030 Purpose Of Provisions 3.14.040 Imposition - Amount 3.14.050 Use Of Revenues 3.14.060 Incorporation Of State Law 3.14.070 Administration, Collection, Enforcement And Distribution By State 3.14.080 Exemptions 3.14.090 Effective Date Of Tax Imposition


===== 3.14.010 Title Of Provisions =====
The ordinance codified in this chapter shall be known as the “County Option Sales and Use Tax for Systems for Public Transit Ordinance of the County of Utah.”


===== 3.14.020 Statutory Authority =====
The authority for imposing this tax is derived from Utah Code §§ 59-12-2213 and 59-12-2216. Utah Code § 59-12-2213 was amended by the Utah State Legislature in the 2011 General Legislative Session to allow a county to impose a sales and use tax to fund a system for public transit without being required to submit an opinion question to the County’s registered voters, provided that the sales and use tax be imposed by the county under Utah Code § 5-12-2216 on or before July 1, 2011.


===== 3.14.030 Purpose Of Provisions =====
The ordinance codified in this chapter is enacted to provide the County with a source of revenue to allow the County to carry out its role more effectively as a political and legal subdivision of the State of Utah, including funding a system for public transit. The County Commission hereby directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted and construed to accomplish this stated purpose.


===== 3.14.040 Imposition - Amount =====
In addition to all other taxes imposed, the County does hereby impose and levy for collection a sales and use tax of one quarter percent (0.25%) upon the sales and use transactions described in Utah Code § 59-12-103(1) subject to the exemptions provided for in Utah Code § 59-12-104. This tax is imposed upon all sales and use transactions made in the County, including sales and use transactions made within the corporate limits of the cities and towns of the County. This tax shall replace and supersede the tax to fund a system for public transit previously imposed by the municipalities within the County that have imposed such a tax and shall replace and supersede the tax to fund a system for public transit previously imposed for a portion of the unincorporated area of the County. Provisions of this chapter shall be subject to the provisions of the Sales and Use Tax laws of Utah to which reference is hereafter made in this chapter, and which are hereby enacted and made a part of this chapter as though fully set forth herein.


===== 3.14.050 Use Of Revenues =====
The revenues received from the County Option Sales and Use Tax for Systems for Public Transit levied pursuant to UCC 3.14.040 shall be allocated one hundred percent (100%) to fund systems for public transit.


===== 3.14.060 Incorporation Of State Law =====
Except as hereinafter provided and except insofar as they are inconsistent with provisions of the Local Option Sales and Use Taxes For Transportation Act, all of the provisions of Utah Code Chapter 59-12 Part 1 in force and effect on the effective date of this ordinance insofar as they relate to the tax imposed by this ordinance except Utah Code § 59-12-101, are adopted and made a part of this chapter as though fully set forth herein. Wherever and to the extent that in Utah Code Chapter 59-12 Part 1 the State of Utah is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of the County shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the County for the word “state” when that word is used as part of the title of the State Tax Commission, or the Constitution of the State of Utah, nor shall the name of the County be substituted for that of the state in any section when the result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against the County or any agency thereof, rather than by or against the State Tax Commission in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this chapter.


===== 3.14.070 Administration, Collection, Enforcement And Distribution By State =====
Taxes imposed pursuant to this chapter shall be administered, enforced and levied at the same time and collected in the same manner as provided for in Utah Code 59-12 Parts 1 and 2, and 59-1, except that the revenue derived from the tax is not subject to the collection and distribution procedures established pursuant to the provisions of Utah Code § 59-12-205(2) through (7). Revenues collected pursuant to this ordinance shall be distributed in accordance with Utah Code Chapter 59-12 Part 22. All revenues so collected shall be revenues of the County. Any records, tax returns, or other information of any person, corporation, company, or other group or organization subject to the taxes imposed by this ordinance which relate to the calculation, collection, or remittance to the State Tax Commission of such taxes shall be subject to review, inspection, and auditing by the County. Any fee charged the County by the State Tax Commission under Utah Code § 59-12-206 shall be based on the distribution amount resulting after all the applicable distribution calculations under Utah Code § 59-2- 1102(3) have been made.


===== 3.14.080 Exemptions =====
The sale, storage, use, or other consumption of tangible personal property which is exempt from sales or use taxation pursuant to Utah Code § 59-12-104 is exempt from the application of the County Option Sales and Use Tax for Systems for Public Transit of the County of Utah.


===== 3.14.090 Effective Date Of Tax Imposition =====
The tax imposed by this chapter shall take effect October 1, 2011.


===== 3.15 County Option Sales And Use Tax For Highways And Public Transit Of Utah County =====
3.15.010 Title Of Provisions 3.15.020 Statutory Authority 3.15.030 Purpose Of Provisions 3.15.040 Imposition - Amount 3.15.050 Use Of Revenues 3.15.060 Incorporation Of State Law 3.15.070 Administration, Collection And Distribution By State 3.15.080 Effective Date Of Tax Imposition And Review Of Tax Imposition


===== 3.15.010 Title Of Provisions =====
The ordinance codified in this chapter shall be known as the “County Option Sales and Use Tax for Highways and Public Transit Ordinance of Utah County.”


===== 3.15.020 Statutory Authority =====
The authority for imposing this tax is derived from Utah Code Chapter 59-12 Part 22.


===== 3.15.030 Purpose Of Provisions =====
The ordinance codified in this chapter is enacted to provide the County with a source of revenue to allow the County to carry out its role more effectively as a political and legal subdivision of the State of Utah, including funding a system for highways and public transit. The County Commission hereby directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted and construed to accomplish this stated purpose.


===== 3.15.040 Imposition - Amount =====
Pursuant to Utah Code § 59-12-2219 and in addition to all other taxes imposed, the County does hereby impose and levy for collection a sales and use tax of one quarter percent (0.25%) upon the sales and use transactions described in Utah Code § 59-12-103(1), subject to the exemptions provided for in Utah Code §§ 59-12-104 and 59-12-2204. This tax is imposed upon all applicable sales and use transactions made in the County, including sales and use transactions made within the corporate limits of the cities and towns of the County. Provisions of this chapter shall be subject to the provisions of the Sales and Use Tax laws of Utah to which reference is hereafter made in this chapter, and which are hereby enacted and made a part of this chapter as though fully set forth herein.


===== 3.15.050 Use Of Revenues =====
The revenues received from the County Option Sales and Use Tax for Highways and Public Transit levied pursuant to UCC 3.15.040 shall be used and expended as allowed by state statute.


===== 3.15.060 Incorporation Of State Law =====
Except as hereinafter provided and except insofar as they are inconsistent with provisions of the Local Option Sales and Use Taxes for Transportation Act, all of the provisions of Utah Code Chapter 59-12 Part 1 in force and effect on the effective date of this ordinance insofar as they relate to the tax imposed by this ordinance except Utah Code § 59-12-101, are adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein. Wherever and to the extent that in Utah Code Chapter 59-12 Part 1 the State of Utah is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of the County shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the County for the word “state” when that word is used as part of the title of the State Tax Commission, or the Constitution of the State of Utah, nor shall the name of the County be substituted for that of the state in any section when the result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against the County or any agency thereof, rather than by or against the State Tax Commission in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this chapter.


===== 3.15.070 Administration, Collection And Distribution By State =====
Taxes imposed pursuant to this chapter shall be administered, enforced and levied at the same time and collected in the same manner as provided for in Utah Code Chapter 59-12 Parts 1 and 2, and Chapter 59-1, except as otherwise provided in Utah Code 59-12 Part 22. Revenues collected pursuant to this chapter shall be distributed in accordance with Utah Code § 59-12-2219. Any records, tax returns, or other information of any person, corporation, company, or other group or organization subject to the taxes imposed by this ordinance which relate to the calculation, collection, or remittance to the State Tax Commission of such taxes shall, to the extent permitted by State law, be subject to review, inspection, and auditing by the County.


===== 3.15.080 Effective Date Of Tax Imposition And Review Of Tax Imposition =====
The tax imposed by this chapter shall take effect at its earliest possible effective date. The imposition of the tax imposed by this chapter shall continue until repealed or amended by the County Commission. The imposition of the tax imposed by this chapter will be reviewed by the County Commission on or before the 31st day of December 2028 to determine if the tax imposed by this chapter should be amended or repealed.


===== 3.16 Urban Farming =====
3.16.010 Authority 3.16.020 Authorization To Use Urban Farming Assessment Act


===== 3.16.010 Authority =====
The authority for this chapter is derived from the Urban Farming Assessment Act, Utah Code Chapter 59-2 Part 17.


===== 3.16.020 Authorization To Use Urban Farming Assessment Act =====
As used in this section, “Act” means the Urban Farming Assessment Act, Utah Code Chapter 59-2 Part 17. The County Commission authorizes residents of the County to participate in urban farming, as defined in the Act, and to utilize all provisions of the Act in carrying out the assessor’s duties. The County Commission authorizes the County Assessor to assess qualified property under the provisions of the Act and to follow all provisions of the Act in carrying out the assessor’s duties. County officials and residents shall automatically become subject to amended provisions of the Act at the time those amendments take effect.
 4 BUSINESS LICENSES / REGULATION 4.01 In General 4.02 Sexually Oriented Businesses 4.03 Massage Parlors 4.04 Registration Of Entertainers 4.05 Taxicabs 4.06 Secondhand Dealers 4.07 Public Accommodations 4.08 Residential Solicitation 4.09 Alcoholic Beverages 4.10 Cable Television Franchise


===== 4.01 In General =====
4.01.010 Definitions 4.01.020 Business License Required 4.01.030 Exemptions From Business License Requirements 4.01.040 Business License Division - Duties And Responsibilities 4.01.050 Business License Application 4.01.060 Issuance Of A Business License 4.01.070 Renewals Of Business Licenses 4.01.080 Inspections 4.01.090 Payment Dates Of Business License Fees 4.01.100 Term Of Business Licenses 4.01.110 Business License Fees 4.01.120 Transfer Of License Restricted 4.01.130 Display Of Licenses 4.01.140 Reciprocal Recognition Of Business Licenses 4.01.150 Penalty 4.01.160 Constructive Notice Of Time Periods 4.01.170 Temporary Uses 4.01.180 Denial Of A Business License 4.01.190 Reasons For Suspension Or Revocation 4.01.200 Enforcement 4.01.210 Procedure For Suspension Or Revocation 4.01.220 Designation 4.01.230 Duties 4.01.240 Meeting; Records 4.01.250 Action By The Board 4.01.260 Appeal Requirements And Procedures 4.01.270 Filing Costs; Salaries 4.01.280 Notification Of Decision; Recourse 4.01.290 Applicability To Sexually Oriented Business


===== 4.01.010 Definitions =====
The following definitions shall be applicable throughout this title, unless a different meaning is clearly intended:

"Applicant" means any person applying for any license provided for in the Utah County Land Use Ordinance . If the person is a partnership or corporation, then each partner, officer, or director is considered an applicant and must qualify accordingly.

"Application" means a formal written request for the issuance of any license permitted under the Utah County Land Use Ordinance .

"Authorized Officers" means those persons authorized by the County or other entities to inspect businesses and enforce the provisions of this title or other applicable regulations, including peace officers, ordinance enforcement officers, and employees of the Health Department, Fire Marshal Division, Planning and Zoning Division, Building Inspection Division, County Attorney's Office, and the County Commission.

"Board of Business License Equalization” means the County Commission.

"Building Division" means the Building Division of the Utah County Community Development Department.

"Business" means and includes all trades, occupations, professions, or activities engaged in within unincorporated Utah County, carried on for the purpose of gain or economic profit, except that the acts of employees rendering service to employers shall not be included in the term "business" unless otherwise specifically provided.

"Business License Division" means the Business License Division of the Utah County Community Development Department.

"Employee" means all individuals who work for an employer for salary or commission or wages and who are subject to the direction and control of such employer.

“Enforcement Official” means a County employee authorized by the Director of the Utah County Community Development Department or designee to perform inspections of a business.

"Engaging in Business" includes, but is not limited to, the sale of real or personal property at retail or wholesale; the bartering or trading of property or services; the manufacturing of goods or property; and the rendering of personal services for others for a consideration by persons engaged in any profession, trade, craft, business, occupation, or other calling, except for the rendering of personal services by an employee to his or her employer under any contract of personal employment.

"Fee Schedule" means the schedule of fees listed in Utah County Government Fee Schedule.

"Fire Marshal Division" means the Utah County Fire Marshal Division.

“Fiscal year” means a year that begins on July 1st of a year and ends on June 30th of the following year.

"Health Department" means the Utah County Health Department.

"Place of Business" means each separate location maintained or operated by the licensee, whether or not under the same name, within the County from which business is engaged in.

"Planning and Zoning Division" means the Planning and Zoning Division of the Utah County Community Development Department.

"Religious or Charitable Organization" means any organization that has provided written approval from the Internal Revenue Service that the organization has been granted tax- exempt status under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code or its successor statute.

"Sheriff’s Office" means the Utah County Sheriff’s Department.

"Violated" or "Violating" means that there exists reasonable cause to believe that any ordinance, code, statute, or law has been or is being violated, and is not limited to pleas of guilty or convictions for violating said ordinances, codes, statutes, or laws.


===== 4.01.020 Business License Required =====
Unless otherwise provided, it shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any business within the County without first having obtained a business license pursuant to this title. A separate license shall be required for each type of business defined in the Utah County Land Use Ordinance and for each place of business. Each day of noncompliance shall constitute a separate violation. In addition to any criminal prosecution or civil proceedings, if any person found violating this section later applies for a license and if a license is granted, the following penalty fees shall be paid, in addition to the license fee:
 The penalty fee shall be one hundred percent (100%) of the license fees for the first year, and the business shall pay an additional penalty for each year or portion of a year in which the business operated without a license in an amount equal to one hundred twenty-five percent (125%) of the current business license fees.
 The County Commission may reduce or waive the penalty fees to be paid by a business operating without a license one (1) time per calendar year, for the purpose of encouraging unlicensed businesses to properly license.


===== 4.01.030 Exemptions From Business License Requirements =====
Any business exempt from the business license requirements as provided in this section must comply with all other requirements of the Utah County Land Use Ordinance , Utah County Code, and State of Utah. The following activities shall be exempt from the requirement of obtaining a business license: the production and selling of fruit produce, field crops, or products grown within a greenhouse on the premises from which they are grown; approved farmers’ market, approved produce stands; approved value added agricultural operations; the raising and selling of domestic livestock and milk produced by said livestock when raised on the premises, domestic fowl and eggs produced by said fowl when raised on the premises, apiaries and the extraction of honey when raised on the premises and sold from the same premises;
 the raising or sale of mink, beaver, nutria, and similar fur-bearing animals, when raised on the premises and sold from the same premises, when neither the manufacturing, nor processing of such animal feeds is included; the sorting or washing of agricultural products by the producer of the products, provided no heat process is included except pasteurization and the nature of the product is not modified; the mixing of feeds for domestic livestock and fowl for the exclusive use of the person or entity making the feeds, provided no heat process is included, no animal by-products are included, and the nature of the product is not modified; garage and yard sales of used personal goods;
 a religious or charitable organization engaged in business solely for religious, charitable nonprofit purposes, provided that the organization has been determined to be tax exempt in such activities under the laws of the United States and the State of Utah;
 any person engaged in a business specifically exempted from taxation and business licensing fees by the laws of the United States or the State of Utah;
 a business which operates only occasionally and by an individual who is under eighteen (18) years of age; public utilities; federal, state or county government entities; and communication facilities;
 a child day care business which is operated within a residence that is not required by the State of Utah to obtain a State of Utah Child Care license or certificate;
 reasonable Accommodations facilities which comply with requirements of the Utah County Land Use Ordinance ;
 a home occupation business unless the combined offsite impact of the home-based business and the primary residential use materially exceed the offsite impact of the primary residential use alone; and
 horse boarding, fish hatcheries for the raising of game fish or fish for human consumption, repair of agricultural equipment and agricultural vehicles, equine/livestock reproduction and/or rehabilitation facility, commercial roping and riding arenas, livestock auctions, and commercial dog kennels.


===== 4.01.040 Business License Division - Duties And Responsibilities =====
It shall be the duty and responsibility of the Business License Division to: enforce the provisions of this title; determine business classifications and applicability of the regulations of this title; collect all business license fees; process all applications and renewals of all licenses provided for in this title; obtain the necessary approvals from the various County departments and divisions before issuing any business license; deny, suspend, or revoke licenses as provided in this title; and maintain a current list of all business licenses.


===== 4.01.050 Business License Application =====
The Utah County Community Development Business License Application shall be in such format and require such information as the Business License Division deems necessary to enforce this title. It is a violation of this title to provide false or misleading information on a business license application.


===== 4.01.060 Issuance Of A Business License =====
The procedures to receive a business license shall be the following: The applicant shall complete an application for a business license zone clearance and return it to the Business License Division. As soon as the zone clearance has been completed it shall be returned to the applicant. The Business License Division shall submit copies of the business license zone clearance application to the Building Division, Fire Marshal Division, and the Planning and Zoning Division. If the zone clearance is approved, the applicant shall complete the application for a business license in full and sign it as verification under penalty of perjury that all information contained therein is true. If the zone clearance is disapproved or conditionally approved, no business license application can be submitted until all outstanding items of disapproval have been successfully completed by the applicant to bring the proposed business location into compliance with all County and state laws prior to making application for a business license. The application shall be returned to the Business License Division along with full payment of all business license fees. The Business License Division shall submit copies to the Sheriff's Office and Health Department. Only after receiving approval from each of the entities named in this section, the Business License Division shall be authorized to prepare a certificate of license for issuance. The type of approval will be determined by the reviewing entity. The certificate of license shall contain the following information: the name of the person to whom the certificate is issued; the business name; the type of business licensed; the date the license was issued; the expiration date of the license; the address of the place of business licensed; and the business license number. If the business is licensed to conduct more than one type of business, as defined herein, the certificate of license shall state each type of business licensed.


===== 4.01.070 Renewals Of Business Licenses =====
Each fiscal year, licensees shall renew their business licenses by completing an application for a license renewal signed under penalty of perjury that all information contained therein is true, and returning it, along with the proper fees, to the Business License Division within the time period set forth in this title. Upon receipt of the application and fees the Business License Division shall submit copies of the applications to the Planning and Zoning Division, Health Department, Sheriff’s Office, and Fire Marshal Division. The Business License Division shall be authorized to prepare a certificate of license as provided in this title as long as there is not a violation on file.


===== 4.01.080 Inspections =====
The Director of Community Development may designate any department employee as an enforcement official. Authorized officers shall be permitted to make an inspection to enforce any of the provisions of this title, the Utah County Land Use Ordinance , or any other applicable statute or ordinance, and may enter any building or may enter upon any premises during regular business hours; or, if there are no regular business hours, the officers or their authorized representatives shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control of the building or premises and request entry. If the property owner or other responsible person refuses to allow the enforcement officers to enter and inspect the property, the officer may obtain and execute a search warrant. No owner, occupant, or any other person having charge, care, or control of any building or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is made as herein provided, to properly permit entry therein by the authorized officer or the officer's representative(s) for the purpose of inspection and examination to insure compliance with this title and the Utah County Land Use Ordinance .


===== 4.01.090 Payment Dates Of Business License Fees =====
Business license fees for new businesses shall be due and payable upon making application to the Business License Division. The application shall not be processed until the fee is paid. Business license fees for renewal businesses shall be due and payable on or before July 1st of each year. If the license is not paid within a month of the due date, a penalty in the amount of fifty percent (50%) of the fee shall be added to the original amount due. If the fee is still not paid within two (2) months of the due date, a penalty in the amount of seventy-five percent (75%) of the fee shall be added to the original amount due. If the fee plus penalty is still not paid within three (3) months, then the business shall be considered to be operating without a business license in violation of this title, subject to criminal prosecution for every day of operation after three (3) months from the due date, and the license fee, if a license is granted thereafter, shall be doubled. Penalty fees may be appealed to the Director of Community Development who may, for good cause shown, refund all or part of the applicable penalty fee that has been paid. The decision of the Director of Community Development may be appealed to the County Commission as set forth in this title. The County Commission may, upon good cause, recommend that all or part of the penalty fee be refunded.


===== 4.01.100 Term Of Business Licenses =====
A newly issued business license is valid from the date of issuance through June 30th of the current fiscal year. A renewed business license is valid for a fiscal year of July 1st of the then current year through June 30th of the ensuing year.


===== 4.01.110 Business License Fees =====
All business license fees shall be those set forth in the Fee Schedule. The fees are categorized in the Fee Schedule by type of business. If a particular type of business is not listed in the Fee Schedule, the Director of Community Development or designee shall determine the category that most closely fits the business. The fee for an initial application received after December 31st of the then current fiscal year shall be fifty percent (50%) of the annual business license fee for the specific business category.


===== 4.01.120 Transfer Of License Restricted =====
Business licenses may be transferred to another person for the same location upon the new person making application and being able to qualify for such license under this title and paying the business license renewal fee as set forth in the Fee Schedule. The business must currently hold a valid Utah County Business License and not be in violation with this title, the Utah County Land Use Ordinance , or all other applicable Laws. A Business License may not be transferred to a new location within the County. Each location shall be applied for and all appropriate fees shall be paid for each location.


===== 4.01.130 Display Of Licenses =====
Every certificate of license for a business shall be posted by the licensee in a conspicuous place upon the wall of the building, room or office of the place of business so that the same may be easily seen. When the certificate of license has expired, it shall be removed and no certificate of license which is not in force shall be permitted to remain posted within the place of business. If the licensee's business is such that a license cannot be displayed in a secure place due to the nature of the business, then the location of the license shall be determined by the Business License Division.


===== 4.01.140 Reciprocal Recognition Of Business Licenses =====
Except as otherwise provided herein, a business license shall not be required of any person who is duly licensed in another county or another city in Utah, has no business location in the County and the county or other licensing city would also reciprocate if the same business were located in the County. Reciprocity shall not be granted to transient businesses and solicitors.


===== 4.01.150 Penalty =====
Any violations of this title shall be a class B misdemeanor. Where applicable, each day of noncompliance shall constitute a separate violation. The business owner, and the owner of the property where the business is located, if the property owner is different than the business owner, are both responsible for compliance with this title, and both may be charged with violations. Nothing in this section shall limit the right of a property owner to seek any legal remedy from a business owner who causes or allows a violation of this title on the property. The operation of an unlicensed business, or the operation of a business at variance with the terms and conditions imposed in granting the license (including the requirement that the business be operated in accord with County ordinances and state laws), is hereby declared to be a nuisance as listed in UCC 7. The County Attorney may, in addition to any other remedy available at law or in equity, maintain civil action to recover any unpaid license fee or criminal action pursued as hereinafter provided, institute injunction, abatement, or any other appropriate action to enjoin, abate, or remove the offending business or activity.


===== 4.01.160 Constructive Notice Of Time Periods =====
All businesses, owners, licensees, and applicants are obligated to be aware of and are deemed to have constructive notice of all time periods and/or deadlines and the effect of noncompliance with said time periods and/or deadlines as set forth in this title relating to the application, issuance, renewal, expiration, appeal or other action relating to business licenses, or any other licensing matters set forth in this title. Nothing in this title shall be construed as requiring the County to take any affirmative action to notify businesses, owners, licensees, or applicants of any time periods and/or deadlines or the effect of noncompliance with said time periods and/or deadlines set forth in this title relating to the application, issuance, renewal, expiration, appeal or other action relating to business licenses or any other licensing matters as set forth in this title.


===== 4.01.170 Temporary Uses =====
A temporary use permit or large public assembly permit issued pursuant to the provisions of Utah County Land Use Ordinance or Utah County Code constitutes a business license for that temporary use which license automatically expires with the temporary use permit or the large public assembly permit.


===== 4.01.180 Denial Of A Business License =====
After a person has made application to the County for a business license, the application may be denied for any of the following reasons: the applicant does not meet the qualifications for a licensee as provided under this title; failure of the applicant to pay all fees and penalties; one of the reviewing departments or divisions of the County provided for in this title has disapproved the application pursuant to any applicable provision of the County Code; false or incomplete information given on the application;
 noncompliance with any requirement or condition set by the Planning Commission, a County Appeal Authority, Planning and Zoning Division, or County Commission, if applicable, under a conditional use permit, variance, special exception, agreement, or noncompliance with the Utah County Land Use Ordinance ; noncompliance with any County, state, or federal statutes or any Health Department regulations governing the applicant's proposed business; or any other reason expressly provided for in this title.


===== 4.01.190 Reasons For Suspension Or Revocation =====
An existing business license may be suspended or revoked for any of the following reasons: the licensee fails to maintain compliance with the qualifications for a licensee as provided under this title; failure of the licensee to pay all fees and penalties; false or incomplete information given on an application; the licensee has violated or is violating any provision of this title or provision of the County Code, state, or federal statutes or regulations governing the licensee's business. the licensee has obtained or aided another person to obtain a license by fraud or deceit; the licensee has failed to pay property taxes or sales tax; the licensee has refused authorized representatives of the County to make an inspection or has interfered with such representatives while in the performance of their duty in making such inspection; the licensee is not complying with a requirement or condition set by the Planning Commission, a County Appeal Authority, Planning and Zoning Division, or County Commission under a conditional use permit, variance, special exception or agreement; violation of this title by the agents or employees of a licensee and violations of any other laws by the agents or employees committed while acting as an agent or employee of the licensee; or any other reason expressly provided for in this title.


===== 4.01.200 Enforcement =====
The Business License Division shall have the authority, without a hearing, to deny a license for the reasons provided for in this title. The Business License Division shall have the authority to suspend or revoke a license without a hearing, for reasons provided for in this title. However, the suspension or revocation shall not take effect until the time period for appealing the decision to the Board of Business License Equalization as set forth in this title below has passed, or, if a timely appeal is so filed, the Board of Business License Equalization has issued its decision. The Business License Division may, on its own initiative or in response to complaints from the general public or any County department or division, investigate and gather evidence of violations of this title or other circumstances which may give rise to a denial, suspension, or revocation.


===== 4.01.210 Procedure For Suspension Or Revocation =====
The Business License Division shall cause written notice to be given the applicant or licensee of the decision to deny, suspend, or revoke a license.


===== 4.01.220 Designation =====
The County Commission is hereby constituted as a Board of Business License Equalization.


===== 4.01.230 Duties =====
The Board of Business License Equalization shall meet and hear an appeal by an aggrieved licensee or license applicant, or other party, who alleges that an error was made by a County officer or other party who alleges that a business is not in compliance with applicable state and County laws and regulations.


===== 4.01.240 Meeting; Records =====
The Board of Business License Equalization shall conduct a hearing wherein the appellant, and any other party having information relative to the appeal, shall be heard. Before holding such hearing, the Board of Business License Equalization shall notify the subject licensee or license applicant at least seventy-two (72) hours in advance thereof and give the time, place, and a brief statement of the allegations to be considered therein. Minutes shall be kept of the hearing, and shall include the action of the Board of Business License Equalization taken at the end of the hearing. The minutes shall be a public record.


===== 4.01.250 Action By The Board =====
The Board of Business License Equalization, at the conclusion of the hearing, shall take action to grant or deny the appeal, or continue deliberations to a time certain, based upon the applicable state and County laws and regulations and such standard rules of procedure as it may have adopted for the purpose of hearing appeals.


===== 4.01.260 Appeal Requirements And Procedures =====
When the Board of Business License Equalization acts under its power to hear and decide appeals in which it is alleged that there is an error in an order, requirement, decision, or determination made in the administration or interpretation of UCC Chapter 4.01, “Business Licenses / Regulations, In General” (the “Business Code”), the Board of Business License Equalization shall not grant a reversal or any other relief appealed for unless the Board of Business License Equalization finds that all of the following standards have been met: The appellant has filed a properly completed written application for appeal, which states with specificity the nature of the alleged error and how the appellant has been adversely affected by said alleged error. The application for appeal was properly filed with the Secretary of the County Commission within twenty (20) calendar days after the date of the decision being appealed. The twenty (20) calendar day appeal deadline is jurisdictional, and the Board of Business License Equalization shall dismiss the appeal if the Board of Business License Equalization finds that the application for appeal filing deadline has not been met. The appellant has been adversely affected by the subject decision applying the Business Code. Prior to filing the appeal with the Board of Business License Equalization, and within ten (10) calendar days after the date of the decision being appealed, the appellant has presented to the administrator, or other person or entity which made the decision in question, with a claim of error which fully sets forth a statement of the facts and the nature of the claim of error. Within fifteen (15) calendar days of the date of the decision being appealed, the administrator, or other person or entity which made the decision in question may, but is not required to, respond in writing to the claim of error. The claim of error shall be deemed denied if the administrator, or other person or entity which made the decision in question, fails to timely approve or deny the claim of error or otherwise respond. A copy of the claim of error, and any response received, shall be attached to the appeal application. The ten (10) calendar days claim of error deadline is jurisdictional, and the Board of Business License Equalization shall dismiss the appeal if the Board of Business License Equalization finds that the claim of error filing deadline has not been met. The decision in question must be one made in applying the Business Code, not some other state or county law, office policy, personnel matter, or other decision beyond the purview of the Business Code. If the Board of Business License Equalization grants the appellant’s request, the result must be consistent with the provisions of the Business Code, and not waive or modify any of the terms or requirements thereof.


===== 4.01.270 Filing Costs; Salaries =====
The Board of Business License Equalization by resolution may fix a filing fee for appeal applications to cover the administrative costs of handling the application and giving notification of hearings. The Board of Business License Equalization shall not receive a salary, other than its regular salary of office of commissioner.


===== 4.01.280 Notification Of Decision; Recourse =====
The Board of Business License Equalization shall notify the parties of its decision. Any person adversely affected by any decision of the Board of Business License Equalization may file a petition with the 4th District Court for Utah County for a review of that decision. Any such appeal or petition shall be barred unless it is filed within twenty (20) calendar days of the date when the decision is filed with the Secretary of the Board of Business License Equalization. The petition shall be limited to the allegation that the decision of the Board of Business License Equalization was arbitrary, capricious, or illegal. The Board of Business License Equalization shall transmit to the reviewing court the compete record of its proceedings, including applications, exhibits, minutes, findings, orders, and any transcript of tape recordings which may be on file with the Board of Business License Equalization. The person or entity filing the petition for review shall request from the secretary to the Board of Business License Equalization a verbatim transcript of the record and such person or entity shall pay the reasonable transcript fees as set by the Board of Business License Equalization. If there is a record, the review of the district court is limited to the record, and the court may not accept or consider evidence outside of the record unless it determines that such evidence was offered to the Board of Business License Equalization and improperly excluded. If there is no record, the court may call witnesses and take evidence. The court shall affirm the decision of the Board of Business License Equalization if the decision is supported by substantial evidence in the record. Filing a petition for review with the court does not automatically stay the decision of the Board of Business License Equalization. Before filing the petitions for review with the court, the aggrieved party may petition the Board of Business License Equalization to stay its decision. The Board of Business License Equalization shall take action on any petition to stay only in a meeting where property nice was given and where a quorum is present. Upon considering such petition to stay, the Board of Business License Equalization may grant the stay if it finds such to be in the best interests of the County. After filing a petition for review with the court, the petitioner may seek an injunction staying the decision of the Board of Business License Equalization. No decision of the Board of Business License Equalization shall be subject to rehearing by the Board of Business License Equalization, except when remanded from a court of competent jurisdiction.


===== 4.01.290 Applicability To Sexually Oriented Business =====
The provisions contained in UCC 4.01 shall be applicable to licenses related to sexually oriented business unless a more specific provision is contained in UCC 4.02, in which case the more specific provisions contained in UCC 4.02 shall apply.


===== 4.02 Sexually Oriented Businesses =====
4.02.010 Title For Citation 4.02.020 Purpose And Findings 4.02.030 Definitions 4.02.040 Classification Of Sexually Oriented Businesses 4.02.050 License Requirements 4.02.060 Issuance Of Sexually Oriented Business License And Sexually Oriented Business Employee License 4.02.070 Inspection Of Sexually Oriented Business Premises 4.02.080 Expiration Of Licenses 4.02.090 Suspension 4.02.100 Revocation Or Denial 4.02.110 Hearing On Revocation, Suspension Or Denial; Appeal 4.02.120 Transfer Of License 4.02.130 Hours Of Operation 4.02.140 Location And Distance Requirements 4.02.150 Live Public Nudity And Semi-Nudity 4.02.160 Interior Design Requirements Pertaining To Sexually Oriented Businesses Featuring Live Semi-Nudity 4.02.170 Regulations Pertaining To Sexually Oriented Businesses That Exhibit Sexually Explicit Films Or Videos 4.02.180 Additional Regulations For Escort Agencies 4.02.190 Loitering, Exterior Monitoring 4.02.200 Zoning, Exterior Design 4.02.210 Penalties And Enforcement 4.02.220 Applicability To Existing Businesses 4.02.230 Persons Under Eighteen (18) 4.02.240 Sale, Use Or Consumption Of Beer Prohibited 4.02.250 Exemptions


===== 4.02.010 Title For Citation =====
The ordinance codified in this chapter shall be known as the “Sexually Oriented Business Ordinance.”


===== 4.02.020 Purpose And Findings =====
Purpose : It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually oriented businesses in order to promote the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the citizens of the County, and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to prevent the deleterious location and concentration of sexually oriented businesses within. the unincorporated areas of the County. The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative materials, including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the intent nor effect of this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of such material. Findings : Based on evidence concerning the adverse secondary effects of adult uses on the community presented in hearings and in reports made available to the County Commission, and on findings incorporated in the cases of County of Renton v. Playtime Theatres, Inc. , 475 U.S. 41 (1986), Young v. American Mini Theatres , 426 U.S. 50 (1976), Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc. , 501 U.S. 560 (1991), County of Erie v. Pap’s A.M., TDA “Kandyland” , 529 U.S. 277 (2000), and City of Los Angeles v. Alameda Books, Inc. , 532 U.S. 902 (2001) and on studies in other communities including, but not limited to, Phoenix, Arizona; Tucson, Arizona; Garden Grove, California; Los Angeles, California; Whittier, California; Adams County, Colorado; Manatee County, Florida; St. Mary’s, Georgia; Indianapolis, Indiana; Minneapolis, Minnesota; St. Paul, Minnesota; Las Vegas, Nevada; Cattaraugus County, New York; Islip, New York; New York City, New York; Times Square Area, New York; New Hanover County, New York; Cleveland, Ohio; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Amarillo, Texas; Austin, Texas; Beaumont, Texas; Cleburne, Texas; Dallas Texas; El Paso, Texas; Houston, Texas; Newport News, Virginia; Bellevue, Washington; Des Moines, Washington; Seattle, Washington; St. Croix County, Wisconsin; and also on statistics obtained from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and findings from the Report of the Attorney General's Working Group On The Regulation Of Sexually Oriented Businesses, (June 6, 1989, State of Minnesota), the County Commission finds, as follows: Sexually oriented businesses lend themselves to ancillary unlawful and unhealthy activities that are presently uncontrolled by the operators of the establishments. Further, there is presently no mechanism to make the owners of these establishments responsible for the activities that occur on their premises. Certain employees of sexually oriented businesses defined in this chapter as adult theaters and cabarets engage in higher incidence of certain types of illicit sexual behavior than employees of other establishments. Sexual acts, including masturbation, and oral and anal sex, occur at sexually oriented businesses, especially those which provide private or semi-private booths or cubicles for viewing films, videos, or live sex shows. Offering and providing such space encourages such activities, which creates unhealthy conditions. Persons frequent certain adult theaters, adult arcades, and other sexually oriented businesses for the purpose of engaging in sex within the premises of such sexually oriented businesses. Numerous communicable diseases may be spread by activities occurring in sexually oriented businesses, including, but not limited to, syphilis, gonorrhea, human immunodeficiency virus infection (HIV-AIDS), genital herpes, hepatitis B, Non A, Non B amebiasis, salmonella infections and shigella infections. Since 1981 and to the present, there has been an increasing cumulative number of reported cases of AIDS caused by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in the United States -- 600 in 1982, 2,200 in 1983, 4,600 in 1984, 8,555 in 1985 and 816,149 through December 2001. Through December, 2001, there have been 2,097 reported cases of AIDS in the State of Utah. Since 1996 and to the present, there have been an increasing cumulative number of persons testing positive for the HIV antibody test in Utah County, with a total of 19 cases through 2002. The number of cases of syphilis in the United States reported in 1999 was over 35,600. The number of cases of gonorrhea in the United States reported annually remains at a high level, with over one-half million cases being reported in 1990. In 1999, the rate of reported gonorrhea infections was 132.2 per 100,000 persons. The surgeon general of the United States in his report of October 22, 1986, has advised the American public that AIDS and HIV infection may be transmitted through sexual contact, intravenous drug abuse, exposure to infected blood and blood components, and from an infected mother to her newborn. According to the best scientific evidence, AIDS and HIV infection, as well as syphilis and gonorrhea, are principally transmitted by sexual acts. Sanitary conditions in some sexually oriented businesses are unhealthy, in part, because the activities conducted there are unhealthy, and, in part, because of the unregulated nature of the activities and the failure of the owners and the operators of the facilities to self-regulate those activities and maintain those facilities. Numerous studies and reports have determined that semen is found in the areas of sexually oriented businesses where persons view "adult" oriented films. The findings noted in the above subsections raise substantial governmental concerns. Sexually oriented businesses have operational characteristics which should be reasonably regulated in order to protect those substantial governmental concerns. A reasonable licensing procedure is an appropriate mechanism to place the burden of that reasonable regulation on the owners and the operators of the sexually oriented businesses. Further, such a licensing procedure will place a heretofore nonexistent incentive on the operators to see that the sexually oriented business is run in a manner consistent with the health, safety and welfare of its patrons and employees, as well as the citizens of the County. It is appropriate to require reasonable assurances that the licensee is the actual operator of the sexually oriented business, fully in possession and control of the premises and activities occurring therein. Removal of doors on adult booths and requiring sufficient lighting on premises with adult booths advances a substantial governmental interest in curbing the illegal and unsanitary sexual activity occurring in adult theaters. Requiring licensees of sexually oriented businesses to keep information regarding current employees and certain past employees will help reduce the incidence of certain types of criminal behavior by facilitating the identification of potential witnesses or suspects and by preventing minors from working in such establishments. The disclosure of certain information by those persons ultimately responsible for the day-to-day operation and maintenance of the sexually oriented business, where such information is substantially related to the significant governmental interest in the operation of such uses, will aid in preventing the spread of sexually transmitted diseases. It is desirable in the prevention of the spread of communicable diseases to obtain a limited amount of information regarding certain employees who may engage in the conduct which this chapter is designed to prevent or who are likely to be witnesses to such activity. The fact that an applicant for an adult use license has been convicted of a sexually related crime leads to the rational assumption that the applicant may engage in that conduct in contravention of this chapter. The barring of such individuals from the management of adult uses for a period of years serves as a deterrent to and prevents conduct which leads to the transmission of sexually transmitted diseases. The general welfare, health, morals, and safety of the citizens of the County will be promoted by the enactment of this chapter.


===== 4.02.030 Definitions =====
For purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the meanings set forth below unless a different meaning is clearly indicated by the context. "Adult arcade" means any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein coin- operated or slug-operated or electronically, electrically, or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, video players, laser disc players, digital video players, or other image-producing devices are regularly maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon matter exhibiting or describing “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”

“Adult bookstore,” “Adult novelty store” or “Adult video store” mean any commercial establishment which, as one of its principal business purposes, offers for sale or rental of any one or more of the following, in exchange for any form of consideration:
 books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, digital video discs, slides, or other visual representations which are characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas;” or instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for use or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for sadomasochistic use or abuse of the user or others.
 A principal business purpose exists if materials offered for sale or rental depicting or describing "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" generate a substantial portion of the business's income, or account for a substantial portion of inventory, or occupy a substantial portion of total floor space. A commercial establishment may have other principal business purposes that do not involve the offering for sale or rental of material depicting or describing "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" and still be categorized as adult bookstore or adult novelty store or adult video store. Such other business purposes will not serve to exempt such commercial establishments from being categorized as an adult bookstore or adult novelty store or adult video store so long as one of its principal business purposes is the offering for sale or rental for consideration the specified materials that are characterized by the depiction or description of "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas."

“Adult cabaret” means any club, bar, juice bar, restaurant, or similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are served, which regularly features any of the following:
 persons who appear in a state of semi-nudity; live performances which are characterized by the exposure of “specified anatomical areas” or “specified sexual activities”; or films, motion pictures videocassettes, digital videos, slides, or other photographic reproductions which are characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
 “Adult motel” means any motel, hotel, or similar commercial establishment which:
 offers public accommodations, for any form of consideration, and which regularly provides patrons with closed circuit television transmissions, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, digital recordings, photographic reproductions, or other similar materials which are characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” and which regularly advertises the availability of such material by means of a sign visible from the public right-of-way, or by means of any off-premises advertising, including but not limited to newspapers, magazines, pamphlets or leaflets, radio or television; or offers, or allows a tenant or occupant to subrent, a sleeping room or rooms for rent for a period of time less than ten (10) hours.
 “Adult motion picture theater” means a commercial establishment where, for any form of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar photographic reproductions are regularly, commonly, habitually, or consistently shown that are characterized by the depicting or describing of "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas."

“Adult theater” means a theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial establishment which, for any form of consideration, regularly features persons who appear in a state of “semi nudity,” as defined herein, or live performances which are characterized by their emphasis upon the exposure of “specified anatomical areas” or “specified sexual activities.”

“Associate Director” means the Utah County Community Development Associate Director and such employee(s) of the Community Development Department as the Associate Director may designate to perform the duties of the Associate Director under this chapter.

“Child day care facilities” means a facility licensed by the State of Utah, whether situated within the unincorporated area of the County or not, that provides care, training, education, custody, treatment or supervision for more than twelve (12) children under fourteen (14) years of age, where such children are not related by blood, marriage, or adoption to the owner or operator of the facility, for less than twenty-four (24) hours a day, regardless of whether or not the facility is operated for a profit or charges for the services it offers.

“Controlling interest” means the power, directly or indirectly, to direct the operation, management, or policies of a business or entity, or to vote twenty percent (20%) or more of any class of voting securities of a business. The ownership, control, or power to vote twenty percent (20%) or more of any class of voting securities of a business shall be presumed, subject to rebuttal, to be the power to direct the management, operation, or policies of the business.

“Distinguished or characterized by an emphasis upon” means the dominant or principal theme of the object described by such phrase. For instance, when the phrase refers to films which are “distinguished or characterized by an emphasis upon the exhibition or description of ‘specified anatomical areas’ or ‘specified sexual activities,’” the films so described are those whose dominant or principal character and theme are the exhibition or description of “specified anatomical areas” or “specified sexual activities.”

“Employ,” “Employee,” and “Employment” shall describe and pertain to any person who performs any service on the premises of a sexually oriented business, on a full-time, part-time, or contract basis, whether or not the person is denominated an employee, independent contractor, agent, or otherwise. Employee does not include a person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises, or for the delivery of goods to the premises.

“Escort” means a person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another person.

“Escort agency” means a person or business association who furnishes, offers to furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration.

“Establish” or “Establishment” means and include any of the following:
 the opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a new business; the conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually oriented business, to a sexually oriented business; the addition of any sexually oriented business to any other existing sexually oriented business; or the relocation of any sexually oriented business. “Licensee” means a person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented business has been issued, as well as any individual listed as an applicant on the application for a sexually oriented business license. In the case of an “employee,” it means the person whose name the sexually oriented business employee license has been issued.

“Nude,” “Nudity,” or “State of nudity” means the appearance of a human bare buttock, anus, anal cleft or cleavage, pubic area, male genitals, female genitals, or vulva, with less than a fully opaque covering; or a female breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple; or human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state even if completely and opaquely covered.

“Operate” or “cause to operate” means to cause to function or to put or keep in a state of doing business.

“Operator” means any person or persons on the premises of a sexually oriented business who is authorized to exercise overall operational control of the business or who causes it to function; a person may be an operator of a sexually oriented business regardless of whether the person is an owner, part owner, or licensee of the business.

“Premises” means the real property upon which a sexually oriented business is located, and all appurtenances thereto and buildings thereon, including, but not limited to, the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways, and parking lots and/or parking garages adjacent thereto, under the ownership, control, or supervision of the licensee, as described in an application for a business license pursuant to this chapter.

“Person” means an individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association, or other legal entity.

“Semi-nude” or “State of semi-nudity” means a state of dress in which opaque clothing covers no more than the genitals, pubic region, anus, and the nipple and areola of the female breast. 

“Semi-nude model studio” means any place where a person or persons regularly appear in a state of semi-nudity in exchange for money or any other form of consideration for the purpose of being observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons. It shall be a defense to prosecution for violation of this chapter that a person appearing in a state of semi-nudity did so in a modeling class operated: by a college, junior college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; by a private college or university which maintains and operates educational programs for academic credit, which credit is transferrable to a college, junior college, or university supported either entirely or partly by taxation; or within a structure: which does not have a sign or other advertising that is visible from the exterior of the building that indicates that a semi-nude person is available for viewing; and as a condition of viewing semi-nude models, a student must enroll in a class at least three (3) days in advance of the start of the class.
 “Sexual encounter establishment” means a business or commercial establishment that offers as one of its principal business purposes, for any form of consideration, a place in which two or more persons may congregate, associate, or consort while one or more of the persons is semi-nude, or for the purpose of engaging in “specified sexual activities”, as defined herein. This definition shall exclude establishments in which medical practitioners, psychologists, psychiatrists, or other similar professional persons licensed by the state engage in medically approved and recognized sexual therapy. “Sexually oriented business” means an adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult theater, escort agency, semi-nude model studio, or sexual encounter establishment.

“Specified anatomical areas” means:
 the human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if fully and opaquely covered; and less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region, buttocks, or a female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola.
 “Specified criminal activity” means a conviction for any of the following offenses within the periods of time indicated below: prostitution, patronizing a prostitute, aiding prostitution, exploiting prostitution, aggravated exploitation of prostitution, or sexual solicitation; distributing pornographic material, inducing acceptance of pornographic material, dealing in harmful material to a minor, distribution of a pornographic film, indecent public displays, or distribution of pornographic material through cable television; lewdness, sexual battery, lewdness involving a child, unlawful sexual activity with a minor, sexual abuse of a minor, unlawful sexual conduct with a sixteen (16) or seventeen (17) year old, rape, rape of a child, object rape, object rape of a child, forcible sodomy, sodomy upon a child, forcible sexual abuse, sexual abuse of a child, aggravated sexual abuse of a child, or aggravated sexual assault; distribution of a controlled substance; or criminal attempt, conspiracy, or solicitation to commit any of the foregoing offenses, or offenses in other jurisdictions involving the same or similar elements, regardless of the exact title of the offense; for which: less than two (2) years have elapsed since the date of conviction or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is the later date, if the conviction was a misdemeanor offense; less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of conviction or the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the later date, if the conviction is for a felony offense; or less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of the last conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction, whichever is the later date, if the convictions are for two or more misdemeanor offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any twenty-four (24) month period. The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on the disqualification of the applicant. “Specified sexual activity” means any of the following: sex acts, including intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation, or sodomy; excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of the activities described in A above; and the erotic fondling or other erotic touching by one person of the genitals, pubic area, anus, or female breast or breasts of another.
 “Transfer of ownership or control” of a sexually oriented business means any of the following: the sale, lease, or sublease of the business; the transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or the establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for the transfer by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing the ownership or control. “Viewing Room” means the room, booth, or area where a patron of a sexually oriented business would ordinarily be positioned while watching a film, video, digital recording, or other visual display.


===== 4.02.040 Classification Of Sexually Oriented Businesses =====
Sexually oriented businesses shall be classified as follows: adult arcades; adult bookstores, adult novelty stores, adult video stores; adult cabarets; adult motels; adult motion picture theaters; adult theaters; escort agencies; semi-nude model studios; and sexual encounter establishments.


===== 4.02.050 License Requirements =====
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a sexually oriented business in the unincorporated area of the County without a valid sexually oriented business license issued to such person by the Director of Community Development or designee pursuant to this chapter. It shall be unlawful for any person who operates a sexually oriented business to employ a person to be an “employee” of a sexually oriented business in the unincorporated area of the County, as defined in this chapter, if such employee is not in possession of a valid sexually oriented business employee license ("employee license") issued to such employee by the Director of Community Development or designee pursuant to this chapter.
 It shall be unlawful for any person to be an “employee”, as defined in this chapter, of a sexually oriented business in the unincorporated area of the County without a valid sexually oriented business employee license issued to such employee by the Director of Community Development or designee pursuant to this chapter. An applicant for a sexually oriented business license or a sexually oriented business employee license shall file in person at the Utah County Community Development office a completed application made on a form provide by the Director of Community Development or designee. The application shall be signed by the applicant and notarized. An application shall be considered complete when it contains the information required in Subsections E1 through E9: the applicant’s full legal name and any other names or aliases used in the preceding five years, together with the applicant’s state or federally issued tax identification number; current business address or other mailing address of the applicant; written proof of age, in the form of a copy of a birth certificate or driver’s license or other document containing picture identification which was issued by an official governmental agency; if the application is for a sexually oriented business license, the business name, location, legal description, mailing address and phone number (if one currently exists) of the proposed sexually oriented business; if the application is for a sexually oriented business license, the name and address of the registered agent or other authorized agent; a statement disclosing whether the applicant has been convicted of an offense which constitutes specified criminal activity, as defined under this chapter, including disclosure of the specific offense or offenses involved, and the date, place, time, and jurisdiction in which each offense occurred; the applicant must also disclose whether the applicant currently holds or has previously held a sexually oriented business license or sexually oriented business employee license, whether in the County or in another jurisdiction or state, which has been denied, suspended, or revoked within the past two (2) years; if so, the applicant shall disclose the name and location of the business, the jurisdiction which imposed the penalty, the date of the violation(s), and the grounds for the revocation, suspension, or denial; the applicant shall make the same disclosures as a licensee if the applicant is or was a partner, officer, director, or stockholder with a controlling interest in a sexually oriented business which was the subject of a sexually oriented business license suspension, revocation, or denial within the last two (2) years; if the application is for a sexually oriented business license, a certification signed by the applicant certifying that the location of the proposed sexually oriented business is not located within five hundred (500) feet of any church, synagogue, mosque, temple, or other building used primarily for religious worship, or any public or private educational facility, including child day care facilities, pre-schools, elementary schools, intermediate schools, high schools, vocational schools, colleges, or universities, or any public recreational facility, including public parks, playgrounds, picnic areas, athletic fields, libraries, or other similar facilities; if the application is for a sexually oriented business license, the single classification of license for which the applicant is filing, together with a sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises, including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business; the sketch or diagram need not be professionally prepared but shall be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six (6) inches, showing all doors, windows, walls, partitions and other features; and if a person who wishes to own or operate a sexually oriented business is an individual, the individual must sign the application for an operator's license as applicant. If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an individual, each individual who has a ten (10%) percent or greater interest in the business must sign the application for an operator's license as applicant. If a corporation is listed as owner of a sexually oriented business or as the entity that wishes to operate such a business, all corporate officers and directors must sign the application for an operator's license as the applicant. The information provided pursuant to Subsections E1 through E9 shall be supplemented in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the Director of Community Development or designee within ten (1 0) working days of any change of circumstances which would render the information originally submitted false or incomplete; the personal information provided pursuant to Subsections E1 through E9 shall be confidential, and shall not be disclosed to the public except to the extent required by state or federal law. A license or permit required by this chapter is in addition to any other licenses or permits required by the County, or the State of Utah. Persons engaged in the operation of sexually oriented businesses or employed as sexually oriented business employees shall comply with all applicable local, state, and federal laws, ordinances, and statutes, including zoning ordinances and other land use restrictions.


===== 4.02.060 Issuance Of Sexually Oriented Business License And Sexually Oriented Business Employee License =====
Upon the filing of a completed sexually oriented business license application, as set forth in this chapter, the Director of Community Development or designee shall immediately issue a temporary license to the applicant. The temporary license shall expire upon the final decision of the Director of Community Development or designee to deny or grant the sexually oriented business license. Within forty (40) days of the initial filing date of the completed application, the Director of Community Development or designee shall issue a license to the applicant or issue to the applicant a letter of in.tent to deny the application. The Director of Community Development or designee shall approve the issuance of the license unless one or more of the following is found by a preponderance of the evidence to be true:
 an applicant is less than eighteen (18) years of age; an applicant has failed to provide information as required under this chapter or has falsely answered a question or otherwise provided false information on the sexually oriented business license application form; the required application fee has not been paid; an applicant has been convicted of an offense which constitutes specified criminal activity, as defined in this chapter, or has had a sexually oriented operators license revoked by the County within two (2) years of the date of the current application; the sexually oriented business premises is not in compliance with interior configuration requirements as set forth in this chapter. The sexually oriented business license shall state in a conspicuous place on the front of the license the legal name of the business, the issuance date, the expiration date, the category of sexually oriented business as designated under this chapter, and the address of the sexually oriented business. The sexually oriented business license shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the sexually oriented business premises so that it is easily readable at all times to those entering the premises. Lighting shall be adequate in the area in which the license is located or the license shall be illuminated so that it is easily readable. Upon the filing of a completed application for a sexually oriented business employee license, the Director of Community Development or designee shall issue a temporary license to the applicant. The temporary license shall expire upon the final decision of the Director of Community Development or designee to deny or grant the sexually oriented business employee license. Within forty (40) days of the date that a completed application is filed, the Director of Community Development or designee shall either issue a license or issue a written notice of intent to deny a license to the applicant. The Director of Community Development or designee shall approve the issuance of a license unless one or more of the following is found by a preponderance of the evidence to be true: the applicant is less than eighteen (18) years of age; the applicant has failed to provide information required under this chapter or has answered a question falsely or otherwise provided false information on the application form; the license application fee has not been paid; the applicant has been convicted of specified criminal activity, as defined in this chapter, or has had a sexually oriented employees license revoked by the County within one (1) year of the date of the current application. A sexually oriented business employee license which is granted pursuant to this chapter shall state the name of the individual for whom it is issued in a conspicuous manner on the front of the license. The issuance date and expiration date shall also appear in a conspicuous place on the license. A sexually oriented business employee shall keep the sexually oriented business employee license on the employee's person or on the premises where the employee is performing or working and shall produce the license upon request of a law enforcement official or County official charged with compliance enforcement.
 Each applicant for a sexually oriented business employee license shall pay an initial administrative fee). Licensees shall pay a renewal fee in connection with the annual renewal of the sexually oriented business employee license.


===== 4.02.070 Inspection Of Sexually Oriented Business Premises =====
Sexually oriented business operators and sexually oriented business employees shall permit law enforcement officers and agents of the County who are performing functions connected with the enforcement of this chapter to inspect the portions of the sexually oriented business premises in which patrons are permitted for the purpose of ensuring compliance with this chapter. Inspections shall be permitted at any time the sexually oriented business is occupied by patrons or open for business. A licensee’s knowing or intentional refusal to permit such an inspection shall constitute a violation of this section. The provisions of this section do not apply to areas of an adult motel which are occupied by a tenant for use as a residence or habitation.


===== 4.02.080 Expiration Of Licenses =====
Each license issued pursuant to this chapter shall expire on the 31st day of December of the calendar year of issuance, unless otherwise suspended or revoked. Such licenses may be renewed only by making application and paying the requisite fee as provided in this chapter. Application for renewal shall be made prior to the expiration of the license. If a license expires before a completed renewal application is submitted, the applicant shall pay the initial application renewal fee and the application shall be processed as an initial application.


===== 4.02.090 Suspension =====
If the Director of Community Development or designee determines that a licensed sexually oriented business has violated a provision of this chapter or allowed a sexually oriented business employee to violate a provision of this chapter while upon the business premises, the Director of Community Development or designee shall issue a written notice of intent to suspend the sexually oriented business license for a period not to exceed thirty days. The Director of Community Development or designee shall state the basis for seeking to suspend the license in the notice of intent.
 If the Director of Community Development or designee determines that a licensed sexually oriented business employee has violated a provision of this chapter, Director of Community Development or designee shall issue a written notice of intent to suspend the sexually oriented business employee license for a period not to exceed thirty days. The Director of Community Development or designee shall state the basis for seeking to suspend the license in the notice of intent.


===== 4.02.100 Revocation Or Denial =====
If the Director of Community Development or designee determines that a licensed sexually oriented business has violated a provision of this chapter or allowed a sexually oriented business employee to violate a provision of this chapter, and the business's sexually oriented business license has been suspended within twelve months preceding the date of the violation, the Director of Community Development or designee shall issue a written notice of intent to revoke the sexually oriented business license. The Director of Community Development or designee shall state the basis for seeking to revoke the license in the notice of intent. If the Director of Community Development or designee determines that a licensed sexually oriented business employee has violated a provision of this chapter, and the employee's sexually oriented business employee license has been suspended within twelve months preceding the date of the violation, the Director of Community Development or designee shall issue a written notice of intent to revoke the sexually oriented business employee license. The Director of Community Development or designee shall state the basis for seeking to revoke the license in the notice of intent.
 The Director of Community Development or designee shall issue written notice of intent to revoke or deny a sexually oriented business license or sexually oriented business employee license if it determines that:
 the sexually oriented business licensee has knowingly or recklessly given false information on the license application or license renewal application; the sexually oriented business licensee has knowingly or recklessly allowed possession, use, or sale of controlled substances on the premises, or in the case of a licensed sexually oriented business employee, the employee has illegally possessed, used, or sold controlled substances on the premises; the sexually oriented business licensee has knowingly or recklessly allowed prostitution on the premises, or in the case of a licensed sexually oriented business employee, the employee has engaged in prostitution while licensed as a sexually oriented business employee; any owner, officer, partner, operator, or other person with a controlling interest in a licensed sexually oriented business has knowingly or recklessly engaged in the business of prostitution; the sexually oriented business licensee operated the sexually operated business during a period of time when the sexually oriented business license was suspended; the holder of a sexually oriented business employee license has worked as a sexually oriented business employee during a period when the license was suspended; the sexually oriented business licensee has committed an act in violation of Federal law upon the business premises; or the sexually oriented business licensee has knowingly allowed any specified sexual activity to occur in or on the premises. For purposes of this section, an act by any employee that constitutes grounds for revocation of that employee’s license shall also be imputed to the sexually oriented business for purposes of revocation proceedings if the County Board of License Equalization determines by a preponderance of the evidence that an officer, director, or general partner, or an employee who managed, supervised, or controlled the operation of the business knowingly allowed such an act to occur on the premises. The fact that any relevant conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on the revocation of the license. Once the County Board of License Equalization revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for one year and a licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented business license or sexually oriented business employee license for one (1) year from the date that revocation becomes effective.


===== 4.02.110 Hearing On Revocation, Suspension Or Denial; Appeal =====
Once the Director of Community Development or designee has made the determination that grounds exist to suspend or revoke a sexually oriented business license or sexually oriented business employee license, or to deny a license application for a sexually oriented business license or sexually oriented business employee license, the Director of Community Development or designee shall notify the applicant or licensee in writing of the intent to revoke or suspend the license or deny the application. The notice shall include the following:
 a written statement which specifies the grounds for the action; and a statement that the licensee or applicant shall have ten business days from the date that notice is received to contest the intended action by submitting a written statement explaining why the license should not be revoked, suspended, or denied. Notice of intent to deny, suspend, or revoke a sexually oriented business license or sexually oriented business employee license shall be sent by certified mail to the licensee's or applicant's most current address on file in the Community Development Office, or by personal service upon the applicant or licensee. If the licensee/applicant submits a written response within the time prescribed in Subsection A2, the County Board of License Equalization shall schedule a hearing and notify the licensee/applicant of the hearing date within five business days of receiving the written response. The County Board of License Equalization shall conduct the hearing no more than fifteen (15) business days from the date that the written response is received. At the hearing, the County Board of License Equalization shall allow the County the opportunity to present evidence with respect to the County’s intended action. The County Board of License Equalization shall then provide the licensee/applicant with the opportunity to present evidence, call witnesses, and make arguments pertaining to the basis for the County’s intended action. The County Board of License Equalization shall conclude the hearing within five business days from the date that the hearing is commenced, and shall issue a written decision within five (5) business days from the date that the hearing is concluded. If the licensee/applicant does not submit a written response to the Director of Community Development or designee within the time period prescribed in Subsection A2, the Director of Community Development or designee shall immediately send written notice by certified mail to the licensee's last known address to inform the licensee or applicant that the license has been suspended, revoked, or denied. The suspension, revocation, or denial shall take effect five (5) business days after mailing. If, after a hearing, the County Board of License Equalization determines by a preponderance of the evidence that grounds exist, as set forth in this chapter, to suspend, revoke, or deny a license, the County Board of License Equalization shall prepare a written opinion which sets forth the County Board of License Equalization’s findings. The County Board of License Equalization shall send by certified mail a copy of the written opinion to the last known address of the licensee/applicant within five (5) business days of the conclusion of the hearing. The decision of the County Board of License Equalization to suspend, revoke, or deny a license shall take effect five business days from the date that notice is mailed, regardless of whether the licensee/applicant accepts service of the notice. If, after a hearing, the County Board of License Equalization determines by a preponderance of the evidence that grounds do not exist which justify the suspension, revocation, or denial of the license, the County Board of License Equalization shall prepare a written opinion which sets forth the County Board of License Equalization's findings. The County Board of License Equalization shall immediately inform the Director of Community Development of the findings and send a written copy by certified mail to the licensee's/applicant's last known address within five (5) business days of the conclusion of the hearing. Once the County Board of License Equalization has communicated to the Director of Community Development that grounds do not exist to justify the suspension, revocation, or denial of the license, the Director of Community Development or designee shall immediately withdraw the notice of intent to suspend or revoke, or in the case of a denial, shall immediately issue a license to the applicant. Administrative remedies shall be deemed to be exhausted once the County Board of License Equalization has issued its written decision. An applicant or licensee whose application for a license has been denied or whose license has been suspended or revoked shall have the right to appeal such action to a court of competent jurisdiction. Upon the filing of any court action to appeal, challenge, restrain, or otherwise enjoin the County's action to suspend, revoke, or deny a license, the Director of Community Development or designee shall immediately issue a provisional license. The provisional license shall allow the party appealing the County's action to operate or to continue to operate a sexually oriented business or work as a sexually oriented business employee until thirty (30) calendar days after the court enters a final judgment on the case. The administrative action shall be promptly reviewed by the court.


===== 4.02.120 Transfer Of License =====
Sexually oriented business licenses and sexually oriented business employee licenses are not transferable. A sexually oriented business license does not permit the operation of a sexually oriented business at any location other than the address designated on the sexually oriented business license application form.


===== 4.02.130 Hours Of Operation =====
It shall be unlawful to operate a sexually oriented business between the hours of 10:00 P.M. and 10:00 A.M.; provided, however, that a sexually oriented business which holds a license from the State of Utah to sell liquor may remain open to sell liquor under the terms of the license, but shall not offer sexually oriented entertainment between the hours of 10:00 P.M. and 10:00 A.M..


===== 4.02.140 Location And Distance Requirements =====
No sexually oriented business shall operate or be established within five hundred (500) feet of any of the following: churches, synagogues, mosques, temples, or other buildings used primarily for religious worship and activities; public or private educational facilities including child day-care facilities, pre-schools, elementary schools, intermediate schools, and high schools, including school grounds and athletic facilities which are used primarily in connection with school-related activities; public recreation areas or facilities including but not limited to parks, playgrounds, picnic areas, athletic fields or courts, libraries, public trail systems, community centers, and other analogous facilities; privately owned amusement parks or recreation facilities. No sexually oriented business shall operate or be established within five hundred (500) feet of a boundary of a zoning district which allows residential use as a permitted use. No sexually oriented business shall be located within five hundred (500) feet of any other sexually oriented business. For purposes of this chapter, measurements shall be made in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures, objects, or boundaries, from the nearest portion of the building or structure which houses the sexually oriented business to the nearest property line of the property in question.


===== 4.02.150 Live Public Nudity And Semi-Nudity =====
It shall be a violation of this chapter for any patron, sexually oriented business employee, or other person in or upon any portion of the sexually oriented business premises that is accessible to any patron to knowingly appear in a state of nudity, or otherwise render himself or herself nude by removing or manipulating clothing or otherwise exposing to view any anatomical areas that are included in the definition of nudity, as set forth herein, except exposure within public lavatory facilities that occurs incident to the use of toilets or urinals for the purpose for which they are designed. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to knowingly appear in a state of semi-nudity on the business premises, unless the person is a licensed sexually oriented business employee who, while appearing in a state of semi-nudity, is upon a stage which is elevated at least three (3) feet from the floor and remains at least ten (10) feet from any patron. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any sexually oriented business employee to knowingly receive any pay or gratuity directly from any patron; it shall be a violation for any patron to give or attempt to give any gratuity directly to any sexually oriented business employee while the employee is in a semi-nude state upon the premises of a sexually oriented business premises. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any sexually oriented business employee, while in a state of semi-nudity, to knowingly touch any patron or any patron’s clothing. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any sexually oriented business or sexually oriented business employee to knowingly allow any specified sexual activity to occur either in or upon the premises of a sexually oriented business. A sexually oriented business featuring any live, semi-nude appearance by a sexually oriented business employee or employees shall ensure that the manager’s station or stations required under this chapter are manned at any time that a patron is present on the premises. A sexually oriented business featuring live semi-nude entertainment shall post a sign in a conspicuous place which sets forth Subsections A through D; the dimensions and print of the sign shall be of a size and type that is easily readable to patrons entering the establishment. A sexually oriented business that is subject to this section shall expel for the balance of the business day any patron who violates any of the rules articulated in Subsections A through D.


===== 4.02.160 Interior Design Requirements Pertaining To Sexually Oriented Businesses Featuring Live Semi-Nudity =====
The design and construction of all sexually oriented businesses in which any sexually oriented business employee will appear in a state of semi-nudity shall include the following elements: a performance stage or stages that are elevated at least thirty-six (36) inches above the height of the patron seating area; the stage or stages shall be separated from the patron seating area by a wall, railing, or other suitable barrier that is permanently attached to the floor and that is at least thirty-six (36) inches high; the barrier shall be located at least ten (10) feet from the edge of the stage so as to create a buffer zone of at least ten (10) feet between the stage and any patron seating area; a manager’s station that is constructed in such a manner as to provide a clear, unobstructed view of the stage, the performers, the patrons, and every portion of the business premises that is accessible to the public, with the exception of the lavatory facilities, which may not contain video reproduction equipment; if the interior of the business premises is configured in such a way that a single manager cannot effectively monitor every portion of the business premises from a single vantage point, multiple manager’s stations shall be constructed in such a way that the manager’s stations collectively provide a view of every portion of the business premises; if the premises has two or more manager's stations designated, then the interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed view of the entire area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose from at least one of the manager's stations. The view required in this subsection must be by direct line of sight from the manager's station; and overhead lighting fixtures that provide sufficient lighting at an intensity of not less than five (5) foot-candle power measured at floor level in every portion of the building to which the public is admitted, including restrooms. All sexually oriented businesses in which any sexually oriented business employee will appear in a state of semi-nudity upon the business premises shall submit with the sexually oriented business license application a diagram of the premises accurately depicting the dimensions and configuration of the interior, including the location of all manager’s stations, cameras, monitors, viewing areas, patron seating areas, stages, rooms, barriers, doors, exits, entry points, permanent displays, and lighting fixtures; the diagram need not be an architect or engineer prepared blueprint, but shall be drawn to scale to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches and designate the orientation of the premises toward abutting streets.


===== 4.02.170 Regulations Pertaining To Sexually Oriented Businesses That Exhibit Sexually Explicit Films Or Videos =====
A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business, other than an adult motel, that exhibits any motion picture recorded on film, video cassette, digital medium, or other format, and the motion picture is characterized by an emphasis on the display of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with the following requirements if the motion picture is exhibited in any viewing room which occupies less than two hundred fifty (250) square feet of floor space: Each application for a sexually oriented business license shall contain a diagram of the premises showing the location of all manager’s stations, viewing rooms, restrooms, overhead lighting fixtures, surveillance cameras and monitors, and portions of the premises which will be off limits to patrons. The diagram shall also depict the place where the sexually oriented business license will be posted. The diagram need not be a blueprint prepared by an architect or engineer but shall be drawn to a designated scale and depict the dimensions of all interior spaces to an accuracy of plus or minus six (6) inches. The diagram shall be oriented toward the north or toward a designated street and accurately depict the front entrance and all other points of access to the interior. The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of the entire area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the premises have two (2) or more manager's stations designated, then the interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed view of the entire area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose from at least one of the manager's stations. The view required in this subsection must be by direct line of sight from the manager's station. No restroom shall contain monitoring or surveillance equipment. No applicant or licensee shall alter the configuration or location of a manager’s station or viewing room without re-submitting an amended diagram and receiving approval through the Community Development Office. It shall be the duty of the operator and of any employees present on the premises to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises which has been designated as an area in which patrons are not permitted as designated on the diagram submitted with the license application. The interior premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate all places to which patrons are permitted access at an illumination intensity of not less than five (5) foot-candle power as measured at floor level. It shall be the duty of the operator and any employees present on the premises to ensure that the required illumination is maintained at all times that the premises is occupied by patrons or open for business. The operator and any employees present shall ensure that no sexual activity occurs on the business premises. The operator and any employees present shall ensure that no openings of any kind are created or allowed to exist between viewing rooms. No person shall make or attempt to make an opening between viewing rooms. If the operator or any employee observes two or more patrons in a viewing room or discovers any person making or attempting to make an opening between viewing rooms, the operator or employee shall immediately exclude the offending parties from the premises for the rest of the business day. If the operator or any employee discovers an opening of any kind between viewing rooms, the operator or employee shall immediately secure the affected rooms and prevent patrons from entering until the wall has been repaired in a manner that is as substantial as the original wall construction. The operator or an employee acting on behalf of the operator shall inspect the walls for openings at least once every business day. The operator shall post conspicuous signs in well-lighted areas of the business stating the following: no loitering is permitted in viewing rooms. occupancy in viewing rooms is limited to one person. sexually activity on the premises is prohibited. making openings between viewing rooms is prohibited. violators will be required to leave the premises for the balance of the business day. violations of the rules stated herein constitute criminal offenses which will be reported and prosecuted. The operator and employees shall ensure that all wall surfaces and seating surfaces in viewing rooms are constructed of or permanently covered by nonporous, easily cleanable material; viewing rooms shall not have any exposed plywood, fiberboard, unpainted drywall, fabric, cloth upholstery, carpeting or other materials which absorb liquids or are difficult to clean. Floor coverings in viewing rooms shall be made of nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces. Rugs or carpeting are prohibited. The operator shall maintain a regular cleaning schedule which shall cause viewing rooms and other places in which patrons view sexually oriented materials to be cleaned at least twice a day. The operator shall cause a cleaning log to be kept and shall allow County Officials to inspect the log upon request. Cleaning shall include the entire interior of any viewing room with disinfectant, including the floors, walls, seats, monitors, cameras, counters, windows, and other surfaces. The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that every area of the premises in which patrons are permitted can be viewed without obstruction from a manager’s station, including the interior of each viewing room, but excluding restrooms. If multiple manager’s stations must be employed, the interior shall be configured in such a way as to provide an unobstructed direct line of sight view of every portion of the premises to which patrons are permitted from at least one of the manager’s stations. It shall be unlawful for an operator or employee to fail to perform any of the responsibilities outlined in this section or to operate a sexually oriented business or maintain the sexually oriented business premises in violation of this section.


===== 4.02.180 Additional Regulations For Escort Agencies =====
An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of eighteen (18) years. A person commits an offense if the person acts as an escort or agrees to act as an escort for any person under the age of eighteen (18) years. Violation of this section shall constitute a class B misdemeanor.


===== 4.02.190 Loitering, Exterior Monitoring =====
The operator of a sexually oriented business shall have a duty to: initiate and enforce a policy which prohibits loitering on or about the business premises, and which comports with the requirements of Subsections C and D; post conspicuous signs which state that no loitering shall be permitted; designate one or more employees to monitor the activities of persons on the premises of the sexually oriented business by visually inspecting the property at least once every ninety (90) minutes or by continuously using video cameras which afford coverage of the entire property, including the exterior; if video surveillance is used, the monitor or monitors shall be located within a manager’s station and shall be in operation at all times that the business is open for operation; and provide lighting of the exterior premises to facilitate inspections for loitering and discourage clandestine behavior.


===== 4.02.200 Zoning, Exterior Design =====
Sexually oriented businesses are permitted in the I-1, Industrial Zone, as set forth in the Utah County Land Use Ordinance subject to the distance and location restrictions set forth in this chapter. All windows, doors, and other apertures to the premises shall be darkened or covered with blinds, curtains, or other suitable coverings in such a manner that people on the outside cannot see sexually oriented materials, displays, entertainment, or activities occurring within the building. The area immediately behind the entry door or doors to the sexually oriented business shall be screened with a partition, wall, or other non-transparent barrier so that people on the outside of the building cannot see into the interior when the door is open.


===== 4.02.210 Penalties And Enforcement =====
A violation of any provision of this chapter or the failure to perform any duty imposed by this chapter shall constitute a class B misdemeanor. Each day that a violation exists shall constitute a separate offense. The County Attorney’s Office is hereby authorized to initiate legal proceedings to prosecute, enjoin, restrain, and correct violations of this chapter.


===== 4.02.220 Applicability To Existing Businesses =====
Upon adoption, the provisions of this chapter shall apply to the activities of all sexually oriented businesses, sexually oriented business employees, and sexually oriented business operators, including sexually oriented businesses which commenced operation on or before the effective date of this chapter. All sexually oriented businesses, sexually oriented business employees, and sexually oriented business operators currently doing business within the County are hereby granted a temporary license which shall continue in effect for one-hundred and eighty (180) days from the date that this chapter takes effect. No sexually oriented business, sexually oriented business employee, or sexually oriented business operator may continue to feature sexually oriented entertainment, perform, or otherwise engage in sexually oriented business activity once the temporary license has lapsed, without first obtaining a license as required under this chapter.


===== 4.02.230 Persons Under Eighteen (18) =====
It shall be a violation for a sexually oriented business, or any sexually oriented business employee who is employed by the sexually oriented business, to recklessly or knowingly allow a person under the age of eighteen (18) years to enter into or remain within the sexually oriented business premises. It shall be the duty of the operator of each sexually oriented business to ensure that an attendant is stationed at each public entrance to the sexually oriented business at all times during such sexually oriented business's regular business hours. It shall be the duty of the attendant to prohibit any person under the age of eighteen (18) years from entering the sexually oriented business. It shall be presumed that an attendant knew a person was under the age of eighteen (18) unless such attendant asked for and was furnished: a valid operator's, commercial operator's, or chauffeur's driver's license; or a valid personal identification certificate issued by the State of Utah reflecting that such person is eighteen (18) years of age or older.


===== 4.02.240 Sale, Use Or Consumption Of Beer Prohibited =====
The sale, use, or consumption of beer on the premises of a sexually oriented business is prohibited. The County shall not provide local consent for the issuance by the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission for a liquor license pursuant to the Utah Alcoholic Beverage Control Act for the sale of liquor on the premises of a sexually oriented business.


===== 4.02.250 Exemptions =====
Notwithstanding any other provision in this chapter, movies rated G, PG, PG-13, or R, by the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA), or live theatrical performances with serious artistic, social, or political value, that depict or describe specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities, are expressly exempted from regulation under this chapter. Notwithstanding any other provision in this chapter, a woman's breast feeding, including breast feeding in any location where the woman otherwise may rightfully be, is expressly exempted from regulation under this chapter, irrespective of whether or not the breast is covered during or incidental to feeding.


===== 4.03 Massage Parlors =====
4.03.010 In General 4.03.020 License


===== 4.03.010 In General =====
Definitions : For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them: "Massage" means a manual or mechanical manipulation of the parts of the body, as by rubbing, kneading, slapping or the like used to promote circulation, relax the muscles, etc., as in deep muscle therapy and/or by the use of Turkish, Russian, Swedish, vapor, electric, salt, mineral, magnetic, hydro, or other kind or character of baths. "Massage parlor" means a public or private establishment where licensed masseurs are hired, act individually, or act as an association, firm, or corporation which engages in, conducts, carries on, or permits to be carried on, any business of giving massages. "Masseur" means any person not otherwise duly licensed by the Department of Registration of the State to practice those treatments referred to above, who engages in, conducts, or carries on the giving of treatments to another person by the application of manual and/or mechanical manipulation or massage, fomentation, bath, or electric massage procedure, heat, light, exercise, or other similar procedures, for a fee. Treatment Restricted : It shall be unlawful for any person to administer, for hire or reward to any person of the opposite sex, any massage, any alcohol rub or similar treatment any fomentation, any bath, or any electric or magnetic treatment, nor shall any person cause or permit in or about the person's place of business or in connection with the person's business, any agent, employee, or any other person under the person's control or supervision to administer any such treatment to any person of the opposite sex.
 This section shall not apply to any treatment administered in good faith in the course of the practice of any healing art by any person licensed to practice any such art or profession under the provisions of the Utah Code Annotated or of any other law of this State.
 Health Standards : When the County Board of Health has probable cause to believe that the examination of a masseur for communicable diseases is necessary for the health and safety of the masseur or the public, it may require a masseur to submit to a physical examination of a type to be determined by said Board of Health. All massage parlor establishments, or private homes utilized by such practitioners, must meet the County Board of Health regulations.


===== 4.03.020 License =====
Required : It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, conduct, carry on, or maintain a massage parlor or engage in the business of a masseur in this County without first obtaining a license to do so.
 Application : Application for a masseur or massage parlor business shall be made according to the provisions of UCC 4.


===== 4.04 Registration Of Entertainers =====
4.04.010 Coverage Of Chapter 4.04.020 Penalty For Violation 4.04.030 Cards Required 4.04.040 Procedure For Obtaining Card 4.04.050 Fees 4.04.060 Issuance Restricted 4.04.070 Nontransferable 4.04.080 Grounds For Revocation


===== 4.04.010 Coverage Of Chapter =====
The persons and establishments covered by this chapter shall be as follows: All persons gainfully employed by any establishment dispensing alcoholic beverages and involved in the actual dispensing of same, including all professional dancers, all female impersonators, and all other professional entertainers in the premises, the above to include doormen or those engaged in checking identification. All persons gainfully employed by an establishment which does not dispense alcoholic beverages but does employ dancers, female impersonators, or other professional entertainers which is completely or partially owned by an establishment or person which does dispense alcoholic beverages. The above shall include all persons, whether employed on a contractual basis or by a fixed salary, but it may exclude only those persons who appear as a licensee by the County for that particular establishment.


===== 4.04.020 Penalty For Violation =====
Any person in violation of this chapter or any part thereof shall be guilty of an infraction.


===== 4.04.030 Cards Required =====
All persons employed by an establishment governed by this chapter must have in their possession a valid Sheriff's registration card.


===== 4.04.040 Procedure For Obtaining Card =====
Prior to commencing employment, the employee must obtain a signed registration application from the employer, and provide the Sheriff's Department with two (2) one and one-half (1 1/2) inch by one and one-half (1 1/2) inch photographs. Any applicant between eighteen (18) and twenty-one (21) years of age, who, by reason of the applicant's appearance, causes the Sheriff's examiner to doubt the truth of the applicant's stated age, may be required to furnish satisfactory documented proof of age; All Sheriff's card numbers obtained under the provisions of this chapter are to be registered by the employer personnel or payroll section, kept as a part of the record of the employee. The person or persons designated by each establishment as the agent(s) responsible for hiring and/or checking employees under the provisions of this chapter, shall examine each employee's or prospective employee's Sheriff's card for the purpose of determining the validity of the card for use in the particular establishment concerned, such validity to be determined by the name of the concerned establishment being stamped on the back side of the Sheriff's card in red ink. If the prospective employee's card is found to be invalid as described above, the prospective employee will be issued a new signed application form which must be completed and presented along with the prospective employee's Sheriff's card to the Sheriff's Department for validation, prior to commencing employment.


===== 4.04.050 Fees =====
All persons processed under this Article shall be charged an original fee of two dollars ($2.00). In the event the original Sheriff's registration card is lost or destroyed, an additional fee of one dollar ($1.00) shall be charged for the duplicate card.


===== 4.04.060 Issuance Restricted =====
Sheriff's registration cards shall not be issued under the provisions of this chapter to any person who has been convicted of a felony, or any other crime or crimes, which, at the Sheriff's discretion, may be considered injurious to any establishment whose employees fall under the provisions of this chapter.


===== 4.04.070 Nontransferable =====
Registration cards issued under the provisions of this chapter shall not be transferable.


===== 4.04.080 Grounds For Revocation =====
The Sheriff may revoke or suspend registration cards issued under the provisions of this chapter if the holder: has been convicted of a felony or any crime involving moral turpitude; has obtained a registration card by fraud or deceit; has failed to pay required fees; has violated the laws of the State or the ordinances of the County regulating the work of the permit holder; or has procured, attempted to procure, or agreed to procure, for any person: another person for the purpose of sexual intercourse or any immoral act, or a controlled substance as defined in Utah law. has utilized the holder's registration card for the purpose of obtaining credit, or as identification for cashing checks. Any person whose Sheriff's registration card has been revoked or suspended by the Sheriff may appeal within fifteen (15) days from the date of the suspension or revocation to the County Commission for a hearing regarding reinstatement of the registration card. The County Commission shall then schedule a hearing.


===== 4.05 Taxicabs =====
4.05.010 Definitions 4.05.020 Rates 4.05.030 Inspection 4.05.040 Financial Responsibility 4.05.050 Qualification For Driver's License


===== 4.05.010 Definitions =====
As used in this chapter, the word "taxicab" is any class D motor vehicle transporting any number of passengers for hire and that is subject to state or federal regulation as a taxi.


===== 4.05.020 Rates =====
It shall be unlawful for any taxicab operator or taxicab driver to charge any rate, fare or charge which has not been approved by the County Commission. Such rates, fares and charges shall be predominantly displayed within easy vision of any customer or client of such taxicab.


===== 4.05.030 Inspection =====
All applications for taxicab licenses shall be forwarded to the Sheriff, who shall inspect such taxicabs. The Sheriff or a duly authorized deputy shall forward to the County Clerk or duly appointed license officer a certificate of inspection for each taxicab to be licensed The certificate shall show that the taxicab has been inspected, is in a thoroughly safe condition for the transportation of passengers, is clean, is of a respectable appearance, and is painted a distinctive color so as to differentiate the taxicab from privately owned passenger motor vehicles and other taxicabs. In the case that the taxicab is licensed as such by any city in the County, there may be submitted, in lieu of the certificate, a copy of the inspection record of the city covering such taxicab, showing that it passed inspection not earlier than sixty (60) days prior to filing of the application.


===== 4.05.040 Financial Responsibility =====
Unlicensed taxicabs : After approval of the application pursuant to UCC 4.05.030 by the County Commission and prior to issuance of a taxicab license, the applicant shall furnish proof of bonding or insurance coverage as required by the County Commission. Previously licensed taxicabs : In the event the taxicab is licensed as such by any city in the County there may be submitted in lieu of the actual insurance policies and/or bonds an affidavit that they are in effect in the amounts prescribed and are on file in said city, and in such case the applicant shall keep the same in full force and effect during the whole period for which such taxicab is covered by a license issued hereunder.


===== 4.05.050 Qualification For Driver's License =====
Before any person shall be granted a license as a taxicab driver, the applicant therefor shall first be required to show evidence that the applicant has obtained a valid state driver's license with taxicab endorsement.


===== 4.06 Secondhand Dealers =====
4.06.010 Definitions 4.06.020 Records Required 4.06.030 Legibility Of Records 4.06.040 Inspection Of Records And Premises 4.06.050 Statement Of Origin Or Possession 4.06.060 Ownership By Seller Of Pawned Property 4.06.070 Pawn Ticket - Required 4.06.080 Pawn Tickets - Copies 4.06.090 Retention Of Property 4.06.100 Hours Of Business 4.06.110 Purchase From Minors 4.06.120 Purchase By Minors 4.06.130 Thieves, Drunkards, Incompetent Persons 4.06.140 Association With Alcoholic Beverage Business Prohibited 4.06.150 Liability Of Principal 4.06.160 Business Restricted 4.06.170 Junkyard Premises


===== 4.06.010 Definitions =====
For the purpose of this chapter the following words shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them:

"Junk collector" means any person not having a fixed place of business in the County who goes from house to house or place to place gathering, collecting, buying, selling or otherwise dealing in old rags, papers, metals, or other articles commonly known as junk.

"Junk dealer" means any person who engages in buying or selling old metals, glass, rags, rubber, paper, or other junk from a fixed place of business.

"Pawnbroker" means any person who loans money or deals in the purchase or exchange of personal property, on condition of selling the same back again to the pledgor or the depositor; or who loans or advances money on personal property by taking a chattel mortgage or other security thereon, or takes or receives such personal property or other indicia of title into the person’s possession; or any person who sells unredeemed pledges with or without the contemporary sale of new merchandise to facilitate the sale of merchandise.

"Secondhand dealer" means any person who keeps a store, office or place of business for the purchase, barter, or exchange or sale of any secondhand merchandise of value, or who engages in the business of dealing in secondhand goods. For the purpose of this chapter, a secondhand dealer shall not be meant to include any person who deals in the purchase, barter, exchange or sale of used motor vehicles and trailers.

"Secondhand precious metal dealer" means any person who engages in buying and selling old gold, silver, platinum, or other precious metal or secondhand articles containing any of such metals.


===== 4.06.020 Records Required =====
It shall be unlawful for any person coming under the provisions of this chapter to fail to keep a substantial and well-bound book, in which the person shall enter at the time of purchase, in the English language: the date. the name and address of pledgor and pledgee, as verified by a driver's license or by two (2) forms of identification. If the property is jointly owned, both owners must be designated and properly identified. an accurate description of the goods, articles or items pawned, including the serial number of the article, name of the manufacturer if available, and dimensional description. the amount of money loaned or advanced thereon or paid therefor. the date and time of day of pawning, purchasing and receiving such goods, articles, or thing; the period of time within which the pledge must be honored; and the residence address of the bailor. the number of the pawn ticket.


===== 4.06.030 Legibility Of Records =====
All entries of records required by this chapter shall be made with ink in a legible manner. No entry in the book shall be erased, mutilated or changed.


===== 4.06.040 Inspection Of Records And Premises =====
The record book and entries and all premises coming under this chapter shall at all times be open to inspection by any peace officer or constable.


===== 4.06.050 Statement Of Origin Or Possession =====
At the time of purchase by any person coming under this chapter of any copper wire, pig, or pigs of metal or of any junk, the purchaser shall obtain a signed and dated statement from the person or persons selling it as to when, where, and from whom the property was obtained and also the residence, address, and place of employment of the seller or sellers. The statement shall be retained for five (5) years by the dealer and shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter relating to erasure, mutilation, or change and to inspection. Any seller who, in making a statement as contemplated by this chapter in selling, offering, or trying to sell junk, willfully makes a false statement or gives untrue information shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor.


===== 4.06.060 Ownership By Seller Of Pawned Property =====
It shall be unlawful for any person coming under the provisions of this chapter to buy or to accept materials in pawn from other than the lawful owner thereof except with written permission of the owner. Any article pawned or sold by other than the owner, without written permission, taken by a pawnbroker, secondhand dealer, secondhand precious metal dealer, junk dealer or junk collector shall be surrendered to the real owner thereof upon presentation of proof of ownership of the article by the real owner. Failure of the pawnbroker, secondhand dealer, secondhand precious metal dealer, junk dealer, or junk collector to surrender such materials forthwith upon demand by the true owner and after exhibition of proof of ownership shall be a class B misdemeanor.


===== 4.06.070 Pawn Ticket - Required =====
The pawnbroker, secondhand dealer, secondhand precious metal dealer, junk dealer or junk collector shall make out, in connection with each article pawned or purchased, a serially numbered pawn or purchase ticket.


===== 4.06.080 Pawn Tickets - Copies =====
Each pawn or purchase ticket shall be issued in multiple copies so that one copy can be retained by the pawnbroker, secondhand dealer, secondhand precious metal dealer, junk dealer or junk collector, one copy referred to the person pawning the article, and one copy at the close of each business day delivered by the broker to the Sheriff.


===== 4.06.090 Retention Of Property =====
It shall be unlawful for any person coming under this chapter to sell or otherwise dispose of any property for a period of thirty (30) days from the date of receiving the same, unless expressly permitted to dispose of such property by the police or Sheriff's Department prior to the expiration of such period; except that such property may be redelivered to the person selling or delivering same prior to the expiration of the thirty (30) days.


===== 4.06.100 Hours Of Business =====
It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker, secondhand dealer, secondhand precious metal dealer, junk dealer, or junk collector to open the person’s place of business for trade before the hours of 7:00 a.m. or after 7:00 p.m. or on Sunday. Provided, however, that on Saturday of each week, and on days preceding legal holidays, and the last fifteen (15) days of December of each year, it shall be lawful for these dealers to keep their businesses open until 11:00 p.m.


===== 4.06.110 Purchase From Minors =====
It shall be unlawful for any person coming under this chapter, or such person’s agents, to purchase or receive any personal property from any person under the age of eighteen (18) years, or to purchase any personal property belonging to a person under eighteen (18) years.


===== 4.06.120 Purchase By Minors =====
It shall be unlawful for any person licensed by this chapter to sell or trade any gun or knife with a blade in excess of four (4) inches long to any person under the age of eighteen (18) years of age, unless the person is accompanied by the person’s legal guardian or parent.


===== 4.06.130 Thieves, Drunkards, Incompetent Persons =====
It shall be unlawful for any person coming under this chapter to receive any goods, articles, or things in pawn, in pledge or to loan or allow to be redeemed any article by any person who at the time of the transaction is intoxicated or who is known to be a habitual drunkard; or any person who is known to be insane or incompetent; or a thief.


===== 4.06.140 Association With Alcoholic Beverage Business Prohibited =====
It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker to contain a pawnbroking business in the same room or in the same building with interconnected rooms with any other business dealing in alcoholic beverages.


===== 4.06.150 Liability Of Principal =====
Any person coming under the provisions of this chapter is liable for any and all acts of the person’s employees in violation of this chapter.


===== 4.06.160 Business Restricted =====
The issuance of a pawnbroker's license shall not permit the licensee to conduct the business of a merchant.


===== 4.06.170 Junkyard Premises =====
Any premises, area or piece or parcel of land licensed and used as a junk yard shall have not more than two (2) entrances and two (2) exits, each of which shall not exceed fifteen (15) feet in width at the perimeter of the premises. Such premises, area, pieces, or parcels of land shall be enclosed with either a solid nontransparent wall or fence or link- weave steel wire or combination thereof with a minimum height of seven (7) feet from the ground level excepting for entrances and exits. The fence or wall shall not contain any poster or advertising of any kind excepting one sign of the licensee not exceeding one hundred (100) square feet in size.


===== 4.07 Public Accommodations =====
4.07.010 Standards 4.07.020 Register To Be Kept


===== 4.07.010 Standards =====
All camps and trailer courts shall be operated in accordance with the State Department of Health Regulations for trailer courts and camps and with the rules and regulations of the County Health Department.


===== 4.07.020 Register To Be Kept =====
It shall be unlawful for any person maintaining or operating a hotel, boarding or rooming house, auto court, motel, or trailer camp in the County to fail to keep a register in which each guest shall be required to write his or her name, residence, next destination and the make and state registration license number of his or her vehicle or trailer, or fail to enter in such register opposite the name of each guest, the designation of the room, cabin, trailer, or camping space assigned to each guest. Such register shall be open for inspection by the public and the Sheriff or other peace officer.


===== 4.08 Residential Solicitation =====
4.08.010 Purpose 4.08.020 No Other County License Or Approval Required 4.08.030 Definitions 4.08.040 Exemptions From Chapter 4.08.050 Solicitation Prohibited 4.08.060 Registration Of Solicitors 4.08.070 Application Form 4.08.080 Written Disclosures 4.08.090 When Registration Begins 4.08.100 Issuance Of Certificates 4.08.110 Form Of Certificate And Identification Badge 4.08.120 Maintenance Of Registry 4.08.130 Non-Transferability Of Certificates 4.08.140 Denial, Suspension, Or Revocation Of A Certificate Of Registration 4.08.150 Appeal 4.08.160 Deceptive Soliciting Practices Prohibited 4.08.170 "No Solicitation" Notice 4.08.180 Duties Of Solicitors 4.08.190 Time Of Day Restrictions 4.08.200 Buyer's Right To Cancel 4.08.210 Penalties


===== 4.08.010 Purpose =====
Residents of the County have an inalienable interest in their personal safety, well-being, and privacy in their residences, as well as their ability to provide or receive information regarding matters of personal belief, political or charitable activities, and goods and services lawfully in commerce. The County has a substantial interest in protecting the well-being, tranquility, personal safety, and privacy of its citizens, which includes the ability to protect citizens from unwanted intrusions upon residential property. The County also has a substantial interest in protecting citizens from fraud or otherwise unfair consumer sales practices as well as criminal activity.
 There must be a balance between these substantial interests of the County and its citizens, and the effect of the regulations in this chapter on the rights of those who are regulated. Based on the collective experiences of County officials derived from regulating business activity, protecting persons and property from criminal conduct, responding to the inquiries of citizens regarding door-to-door solicitation, the experience of its law enforcement officers and those affected by door-to-door canvassing and solicitation, as well as judicial decisions outlining the boundaries of constitutional protections afforded and denied persons seeking to engage in door-to-door solicitation, the County adopts this chapter to promote the County’s substantial interests in:
 respecting citizen’s decisions regarding privacy in their residences; protecting persons from criminal conduct; providing equal opportunity to advocate for and against religious belief, political position, or charitable activities; and permitting truthful and non-misleading door-to-door solicitation regarding lawful goods or services in intrastate or interstate commerce.
 The County finds that the procedures, rules and regulations set forth in this chapter are narrowly tailored to preserve and protect the County interests referred to herein while at the same time balancing the rights of those regulated.


===== 4.08.020 No Other County License Or Approval Required =====
Registered solicitors and persons exempt from registration need not apply for, nor obtain, any other license, permit, or registration from the County to engage in door-to-door solicitation. Any business licensed by the County under another County Ordinance that uses employees, independent contractors, or agents for door-to-door solicitation in an effort to provide any tangible or intangible benefit to the Business, shall be required to have such solicitors obtain a certificate, unless otherwise exempt from registration. Those responsible persons or entities associated with registered solicitors need not apply for, nor obtain, any other license, permit, or registration from the County, provided they do not establish a temporary or fixed place of business in the County. Nothing herein is intended to interfere with or supplant any other requirement of federal, state, or other local government law regarding any license, permit, or certificate that a registered solicitor is otherwise required to have or maintain.


===== 4.08.030 Definitions =====
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply: “Advocating” means speech or conduct intended to inform, promote, or support religious belief, political position, or charitable activities. “Appeals officer” means the Board of License Equalization or designee of the County responsible for receiving the information from the County and appellant regarding the denial or suspension of a certificate and issuing a decision as required by this chapter. “Appellant” means the person or entity appealing the denial or suspension of a certificate, either personally as an applicant or registered solicitor, or on behalf of the applicant or registered solicitor. “Applicant” means an individual who is at least sixteen (16) years of age and not a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, or other lawful entity who applies for a certificate permitting door-to-door solicitation. “Application form” means a standardized form provided by the County to an applicant to be completed and submitted as part of registration. “B.C.I.” means an original or copy, dated no earlier than one hundred eighty (180) days prior to the date of the application, of either: (A) a Utah Department of Public Safety Bureau of Criminal Identification verified criminal history report personal to the applicant or equivalent report prepared by the corresponding public safety agency of the applicant’s home state if the applicant is not a Utah resident; or (B) verification by the Utah Department of Public Safety Bureau of Criminal Identification that no criminal history rising to the level of a disqualifying status exists for the applicant. “Business” means a commercial enterprise licensed by the County as a person or entity under this chapter, having a fixed or temporary physical location within the County. “Certificate” means a temporary, annual, or renewal certificate permitting door-to-door solicitation in the County applied for or issued pursuant to the terms of this chapter. “Charitable activities” means advocating by persons or entities that either are, or support, a charitable organization. “Charitable organization” includes any person, joint venture, partnership, limited liability company, corporation, association, group, or other entity: That is: a benevolent, educational, voluntary health, philanthropic, humane, patriotic, religious or eleemosynary, social welfare or advocacy, public health, environmental or conservation, or civic organization; for the benefit of a public safety, law enforcement, or firefighter fraternal association; or established for any charitable purpose; and That is tax exempt under applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended, and qualified to solicit and receive tax deductible contributions from the public for charitable purposes. Charitable organization includes a chapter, branch, area, or office, or similar affiliate or any person soliciting contributions within the state for a charitable organization that has its principal place of business outside the County or State of Utah. “Competent individual” means a person claiming or appearing to be at least eighteen (18) years of age and of sufficiently sound mind and body to be able to engage in rational thought, conversation, and conduct. “Completed application” means a fully completed application form, a B.C.I, two (2) copies of the original identification relied on by the applicant to establish proof of identity, and the tendering of fees. "Criminally convicted” means the final entry of a conviction, whether by a plea of no contest, guilty, entry of a judicial or jury finding of guilt, which has not been set aside on appeal or pursuant to a writ of habeas corpus. The criminal conviction is that offense of which the applicant or registered solicitor was convicted, without regard to the reduced status of the charge after completion of conditions of probation or parole, and charges dismissed under a plea in abeyance or diversion agreement. "Disqualifying status" means anything specifically defined in this chapter as requiring the denial or suspension of a certificate, and any of the following: the applicant or registered solicitor has been criminally convicted of: felony homicide; physically abusing, sexually abusing, or exploiting a minor; the sale or distribution of controlled substance; or sexual assault of any kind; criminal charges currently pending against the applicant or registered solicitor for: felony homicide; physically abusing, sexually abusing, or exploiting a minor; the sale or distribution of controlled substances; or sexual assault of any kind; the applicant or registered solicitor has been criminally convicted of a felony within the last ten (10) years; the applicant or registered solicitor has been incarcerated in a federal or state prison within the past five (5) years; the applicant or registered solicitor has been criminally convicted of a misdemeanor within the past five (5) years involving a crime of: moral turpitude; or violent or aggravated conduct involving persons or property; or registered solicitor within the last five (5) years indicating that: the applicant or registered solicitor had either engaged in fraud, or intentional misrepresentation; or a debt of the applicant or registered solicitor was non-dischargeable in bankruptcy pursuant to Federal law. the applicant or registered solicitor is currently on parole or probation to any court, penal institution, or governmental entity, including being under house arrest or subject to a tracking device; the applicant or registered solicitor has an outstanding arrest warrant from any jurisdiction; or the applicant or registered solicitor is currently subject to a protective order based on physical or sexual abuse issued by a court of competent jurisdiction. “Door-to-door solicitation” means the practice of engaging in or attempting to engage in conversation with any person at a residence, whether or not that person is a competent individual, while making or seeking to make or facilitate a home solicitation sale, or attempting to further the sale of goods and or services. “Entity” includes a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, or other lawful entity, organization, society, or association. “Fees” means the cost charged to the applicant or registered solicitor for the issuance of a certificate and/or identification badge, which shall not exceed the reasonable costs of processing the application and issuing the certificate and/or identification badge. “Final civil judgment” means a civil judgment that would be recognized under state law as a judgment to which collateral estoppel would apply. “Goods” means one or more tangible items, wares, objects of merchandise, perishables of any kind, subscriptions, or manufactured products offered, provided, or sold. “Home solicitation sale” means to make or attempt to make a sale of goods or services by a solicitor at a residence by means of door-to-door solicitation, regardless of: the means of payment or consideration used for the purchase; the time of delivery of the goods or services; or the previous or present classification of the solicitor as a solicitor, peddler, hawker, itinerant merchant, or similar designation. “Licensing officer” means the County employee(s) or agent(s) responsible for receiving from an applicant or registered solicitor the completed application and either granting, suspending, or denying the applicant’s certificate. “No Solicitation Sign” means a reasonably visible and legible sign that states “No soliciting,” “No solicitors,” “No salespersons,” “No trespassing,” or words of similar import. “Political position” means any actually held belief, or information for, against, or in conjunction with any political, social, environmental, or humanitarian belief or practice. "Registered solicitor” means any person who has been issued a current certificate by the County. “Registration” means the process used by the County Licensing Officer to accept a completed application and determine whether or not a certificate will be denied, granted, or suspended. “Religious belief” means any sincerely held belief, or information for, against, or in conjunction with, any theistic, agnostic, or atheistic assumption, presumption or position, or religious doctrine, dogma, or practice regardless of whether or not the belief or information is endorsed by any other person or public or private entity. “Residence” means any living unit contained within any building or structure that is occupied by any person as a dwelling consistent with the zoning laws of the County, together with the lot or other real property on which the living unit is located. This does not include the sidewalk, public street, or public rights-of-way. “Responsible person or entity” means that person or entity responsible to provide the following to an applicant, registered solicitor, and the competent individual in a residence to whom a sale of goods or services is made or attempted to be made by means of a home solicitation sale: maintaining a state sales tax number, a special events sales tax number, computing the sales taxes owing from any sale of goods or services, paying the sales taxes, and filing any required returns or reports; facilitating and responding to requests from consumers who desire to cancel the sale pursuant to applicable contractual rights or law; and refunding any monies paid or reversing credit card charges to those persons who timely rescind any sale pursuant to applicable contractual rights or law. “Sale of goods or services” means the conduct and agreement of a solicitor and the competent individual in a residence regarding a particular good(s) or service(s) that entitles the consumer to rescind the same within three (3) days under any applicable federal, state, or local law. “Services” means those intangible goods or personal benefits offered, provided, or sold to a competent individual of a residence. “Soliciting” or “Solicit” or “Solicitation” means any of the following activities: seeking to obtain sales or orders for the exchange of goods, wares, merchandise or perishables of any kind, for any kind of remuneration or consideration, regardless of whether advance payment is sought; seeking to obtain prospective customers to apply for or to purchase insurance, subscriptions to publications, or publications; seeking to obtain contributions of money or any other thing of value for the benefit of any person or entity; seeking to obtain orders or prospective customers for goods or services; seeking to engage an individual in conversation at a residence for the purpose of promoting or facilitating the receipt of information regarding religious belief, political position, charitable conduct, or a home solicitation sale; or other activities falling within the commonly accepted definition of soliciting, such as hawking or peddling. “Solicitor” or “Solicitors” means a person(s) engaged in door-to-door solicitation. “Submitted in writing” means the information for an appeal of a denial or suspension of a certificate, submitted in any type of written statement to the County offices by certified, registered, priority, overnight or delivery confirmation mail, facsimile, or hand delivery. “Substantiated report” means an oral, written, or electronic report: that is submitted to and documented by the County; by any of the following: a competent individual who is willing to provide law enforcement or other County employees with publicly available identification of their name, address, and any other reliable means of contact; county law enforcement or licensing officer; or any other regularly established law enforcement agency at any level of government; and that provides any of the following information regarding a registered solicitor: documented verification of a previously undisclosed disqualifying status of a registered solicitor; probable cause that the registered solicitor has committed a disqualifying status which has not yet been determined to be a disqualifying status; documented, eye-witness accounts that the registered solicitor has engaged in repeated patterns of behavior that demonstrates failure by the registered solicitor to adhere to the requirements of this chapter; or probable cause that continued licensing of the registered solicitor creates exigent circumstances that threaten the health, safety, or welfare of any individuals or entities within the County. “Waiver” means the written form provided to applicant by the County wherein applicant agrees that the County may obtain a name/date of birth BCI background check on the applicant for licensing purposes under this chapter, and which contains applicant’s notarized signature.


===== 4.08.040 Exemptions From Chapter =====
The following are exempt from registration under this chapter: persons specifically invited to a residence by a competent individual prior to the time of the person’s arrival at the residence; persons whose license, permit, certificate or registration with the State of Utah permits them to engage in door-to-door solicitation to offer goods or services to an occupant of the residence; persons delivering goods to a residence pursuant to a previously made order, or persons providing services at a residence pursuant to a previously made request by a competent individual; persons advocating or disseminating information for, against, or in conjunction with, any religious belief, or political position regardless of whether goods, services, or any other consideration is offered or given, with or without any form of commitment, contribution, donation, pledge, or purchase; and persons representing a charitable organization. The charitable exemption shall apply to students soliciting contributions to finance extracurricular social, athletic, artistic, scientific or cultural programs, provided that the solicitation has been approved in writing by the school administration, and that such student solicitors carry current picture student identification from the educational institution for which they are soliciting. Those persons exempt from registration are not exempt from the duties and prohibitions outlined in UCC 4.08.170, UCC 4.08.180, and UCC 4.08.190 while advocating or soliciting.


===== 4.08.050 Solicitation Prohibited =====
Unless otherwise authorized, permitted, or exempted pursuant to the terms and provisions of this chapter, the practice of being in and upon a private residence within the County by solicitors, for the purpose of home solicitation sales or to provide goods or services, is prohibited and is punishable as set forth in this chapter.


===== 4.08.060 Registration Of Solicitors =====
Unless otherwise exempt under this chapter, all persons desiring to engage in door-to-door solicitation within the County, prior to doing so, shall submit a completed application to the licensing officer and obtain a certificate.


===== 4.08.070 Application Form =====
The licensing officer shall provide a standard application form for use for the registration of solicitors. Upon request to the licensing officer, or as otherwise provided, any person or entity may obtain in person, by mail, or facsimile, a copy of this application form. Each application form shall require disclosure and reporting by the applicant of the following information, documentation, and fee: Review of written disclosures : An affirmation that the applicant has received and reviewed the disclosure information required by this chapter. Contact information : applicant’s true, correct and legal name, including any former names or aliases used during the last ten (10) years; applicant’s date of birth, telephone number, home address and mailing address, if different from the home address; if different from the applicant, the name, address, and telephone number of the responsible person or entity; and the address by which all notices to the applicant required under this chapter are to be sent. Proof of identity : An in-person verification by the licensing officer of the applicant’s identity by use of any of the following which bear a photograph of the applicant: a valid driver's license issued by any State; a valid passport issued by the United States; a valid identification card issued by any State; or a valid identification issued by a branch of the United States military. Upon verification of identity, the original identification submitted to establish proof of identity shall be returned to the applicant. Proof of registration with Department of Commerce : The applicant shall provide proof that either the applicant, or the responsible person or entity, has registered with the Utah State Department of Commerce; Special events sales tax number : The applicant shall provide a special events sales tax number for either the applicant, or for the responsible person or entity for which the applicant will be soliciting; Marketing information : the goods or services offered by the applicant, including any commonly known, registered or trademarked names; and whether the applicant holds any other licenses, permits, registrations, or other qualifications required by federal or state law to promote, provide, or render advice regarding the offered goods or services. BCI background check : The Applicant shall provide: an original or a copy of a BCI background check as defined in UCC 4.08.030; and a signed copy of a waiver whereby applicant agrees to allow the County to obtain a name/date of birth BCI background check on applicant for purposes of enforcement of this chapter. Responses to questions regarding “disqualifying status” : The applicant shall be required to affirm or deny each of the following statements on the application form: has the applicant been criminally convicted of: felony homicide; physically abusing, sexually abusing, or exploiting a minor; the sale or distribution of controlled substances; or sexual assault of any kind; are any criminal charges currently pending against the applicant for: felony homicide; physically abusing, sexually abusing, or exploiting a minor; the sale or distribution of controlled substances; or sexual assault of any kind; has the applicant been criminally convicted of a felony within the last ten (10) years; has the applicant been incarcerated in a federal or state prison within the past five (5) years; has the applicant been criminally convicted of a misdemeanor within the past five (5) years involving a crime of: moral turpitude; or violent or aggravated conduct involving persons or property. has a final civil judgment been entered against the applicant within the last five (5) years indicating that: the Applicant had either engaged in fraud, or intentional misrepresentation; or that a debt of the Applicant was non-dischargeable in bankruptcy pursuant to Federal law. is the applicant currently on parole or probation to any court, penal institution, or governmental entity, including being under house arrest or subject to a tracking device; does the applicant have an outstanding arrest warrant from any jurisdiction; or is the applicant currently subject to a protective order based on physical or sexual abuse issued by a court of competent jurisdiction. Fee : The applicant shall pay such fees as determined applicable by the County, which shall not exceed the reasonable cost of processing the application and issuing the certificate and/or identification badge. Execution of application : The applicant shall execute the application form, stating upon oath or affirmation, under penalty of perjury, that the information provided is complete, truthful, and accurate.


===== 4.08.080 Written Disclosures =====
The application form shall be accompanied by written disclosures notifying the applicant of the following: the applicant’s submission of the application authorizes the County to verify information submitted with the completed application including: the applicant’s address; the applicant’s and/or responsible person or entity’s state tax identification and special use tax numbers, if any; the validity of the applicant’s proof of identity; the County may consult any publicly available sources for information on the applicant, including but not limited to databases for any outstanding warrants, protective orders, or civil judgments; establishing proof of identity is required before registration is allowed; identification of the fee amount that must be submitted by applicant with a completed application; the applicant must submit a BCI background check with a completed application; to the extent permitted by State and/or federal law, the applicant’s BCI background check shall remain a confidential, protected, private record not available for public inspection; the County will maintain copies of the applicant’s application form, proof of identity, and identification badge. These copies will become public records available for inspection on demand at the County offices whether or not a certificate is denied, granted, or renewed; the criteria for disqualifying status, denial, or suspension of a certificate under the provisions of this chapter; that a request for a temporary certificate will be granted or denied within one business day after the date that a completed application is submitted.


===== 4.08.090 When Registration Begins =====
The licensing officer shall not begin the registration process unless the applicant has submitted a completed application. The original identification submitted to establish proof of identity shall be returned after the licensing officer verifies the applicant’s identity. A copy of the identification may be retained by the licensing officer. If an original B.C.I. background check is submitted by the applicant, the licensing officer shall make a copy of the B.C.I. and return the original to the applicant.


===== 4.08.100 Issuance Of Certificates =====
The licensing officer shall review the completed application submitted by the applicant and issue a certificate in accordance with the following: Temporary certificate : A temporary certificate shall be issued within one business day after the date that a completed application is submitted, allowing the applicant to begin door-to-door solicitation, upon the following conditions: applicant’s submission of a completed application; applicant’s submission of the required fee; applicant establishes proof of identity; applicant’s representations on the application form do not affirmatively show a disqualifying status; B.C.I. does not affirmatively show a disqualifying status; and applicant has not previously been denied a certificate by the County, or had a certificate revoked for grounds that still constitute a disqualifying status under this chapter. A temporary certificate will automatically expire after twenty-five (25) calendar days from issuance, or upon grant or denial of an annual certificate, whichever period is shorter. Annual certificate : Within twenty-five (25) calendar days of the issuance of a temporary certificate the County shall: take any and all actions it deems appropriate to verify the truthfulness and completeness of the information submitted by the applicant, including, but not limited to those disclosed with the application form; and issue written notice to the applicant and the responsible person or entity, if any, that the applicant either: will be issued an annual certificate, eligible for renewal one year from the date of issuance of the temporary certificate; or will not be issued an annual certificate for reasons cited in UCC 4.08.140. Renewal certificate : An annual certificate shall be valid for one year from the date of issuance of the temporary certificate and shall expire at midnight on the anniversary date of issuance. Any annual certificate that is not suspended, revoked, or expired may be renewed upon the request of the registered solicitor and the submission of a new completed application and payment of the fee, unless any of the conditions for the denial, suspension or revocation of a certificate are present as set forth in UCC 4.08.140, or a disqualifying status is present.


===== 4.08.110 Form Of Certificate And Identification Badge =====
Certificate form : Should the licensing officer determine that the applicant is entitled to a certificate, the licensing officer shall issue a certificate to the applicant. The certificate shall list the name of the registered solicitor and the responsible person or entity, if any, and the date on which the certificate expires. The certificate shall be dated and signed by the license officer. The certificate shall be carried by the registered solicitor at all times while soliciting in the County. Identification badge : With both the temporary and annual certificates, the County shall issue each registered solicitor an identification badge that shall be worn prominently on his or her person while soliciting in the County. The identification badge shall bear the name of the County and shall contain: the name of the registered solicitor; the address and phone number of the registered solicitor, and the name, address, and phone number of the responsible person or entity, if any; a recent photograph of the registered solicitor; and the date on which the certificate expires.


===== 4.08.120 Maintenance Of Registry =====
The licensing officer shall maintain and make available for public inspection a copy or record of every completed application received and the certificate or written denial issued by the County. To the extent permitted by State and/or Federal law, the applicant’s BCI background check shall remain a confidential, protected, private record not available for public inspection. The licensing officer may furnish to the head of the County’s law enforcement agency a listing of all applicants, those denied, and those issued a certificate.


===== 4.08.130 Non-Transferability Of Certificates =====
Certificates shall be issued only in the name of the applicant and shall list the responsible party or entity, if any. The certificate shall be non-transferable. A registered solicitor desiring to facilitate or attempt to facilitate home solicitation sales with different: (a) goods or services; or (b) responsible person or entity, from those designated in the originally submitted completed application, shall submit a written change request to the licensing officer. A new certificate based on the amended information shall issue for the balance of time remaining on the solicitor’s previous certificate before the amendment was filed. Before the new certificate is given to the registered solicitor, the registered solicitor shall obtain a revised identification badge from the County, after payment of the fee for the identification badge.


===== 4.08.140 Denial, Suspension, Or Revocation Of A Certificate Of Registration =====
Denial : Upon review, the licensing officer shall refuse to issue a certificate to an applicant for any of the following reasons: Denial of Temporary Certificate : the application form is not complete; the applicant fails to: establish proof of identity; provide a B.C.I.; or pay the fees; the completed application or B.C.I. indicates that the applicant has a disqualifying status; or The applicant has previously been denied a certificate by the County, or has had a certificate revoked for grounds that still constitute a disqualifying status under this chapter. Denial of Annual Certificate : the information submitted by the applicant at the time of the granting of the temporary certificate is found to be incomplete or incorrect; since the submission of the completed application, the applicant is subject to a previously undisclosed or unknown disqualifying status; failure to complete payment of the fees; since the submission of the application, the County has received a substantiated report regarding the past or present conduct of the applicant; since the submission of the application, the County or other governmental entity has either criminally convicted or obtained a civil injunction against the applicant for violating this chapter or similar Federal, State, or municipal laws in a manner rising to the level of a disqualifying status; or since the submission of the application, a final civil judgment has been entered against the applicant indicating that: the applicant had either engaged in fraud, or intentional misrepresentation; or that a debt of the applicant was non-dischargeable in bankruptcy pursuant to Federal law. Denial of Annual Certificate Renewal : the information submitted by the applicant when seeking renewal of a certificate is found to be incomplete or incorrect; Since the submission of the renewal application, the applicant is subject to a previously undisclosed or unknown disqualifying status; failure to complete payment of the fees; since the submission of the application or granting of a certificate, the county has received a substantiated report regarding the past or present conduct of the solicitor; the County or other governmental entity has either criminally convicted or obtained a civil injunction against the Applicant for violating this chapter or similar Federal, State, or municipal laws in a manner rising to the level of a disqualifying status; or since the submission of the application, a final civil judgment has been entered against the applicant indicating that: the applicant had either engaged in fraud, or intentional misrepresentation; or that a debt of the applicant was non-dischargeable in bankruptcy pursuant to Federal law. Suspension or Revocation : The County shall either suspend or revoke a certificate when any of the reasons warranting the denial of a certificate occurs. Notice of Denial or Suspension : Upon determination of the licensing officer to deny an applicant’s completed application or to suspend a registered solicitor’s certificate, the County shall cause written notice to be sent to the applicant or registered solicitor by the method indicated in the completed application. The notice shall specify the grounds for the denial or suspension, the documentation or information the County relied on to make the decision, the availability of the documentation for review by applicant upon one (1) business day notice to the County, and the date upon which the denial or suspension of the certificate shall take effect. It shall further state that the applicant or registered solicitor shall have ten (10) business days from the receipt of the notice of denial or suspension to appeal the same. The denial or suspension of the certificate shall be effective no sooner than two (2) calendar days from the date the notice is sent, unless that suspension is because of exigent circumstances outlined in UCC 4.08.030 definition "Substantiated report" Subsection C3, in which case, the suspension is effective immediately. The denial or suspension shall remain effective unless and until the order is rescinded, overturned on appeal, or determined by a court to be contrary to equity or law. Failure to appeal the suspension of a certificate automatically results in its revocation.


===== 4.08.150 Appeal =====
An applicant or registered solicitor whose certificate has been denied or suspended shall have the right to appeal to the Board of License Equalization or its designee. Any appeal must be submitted by either the applicant, the responsible person or entity, or legal counsel for either who: documents the relationship with the applicant or responsible person or entity; or is licensed or authorized by the State of Utah to do so, and makes the assertion of an agency relationship. The following procedures and requirements shall apply: Any appeal must be submitted in writing to the Board of License Equalization with a copy to the license officer within ten (10) business days of the decision from which the appeal is taken. Such appeal shall describe in detail the nature of the appeal, the action complained of and the grounds for appeal. Upon request of the applicant or registered solicitor, within one business day, the County will make available any information upon which it relied in making the determination to either deny or suspend the certificate. The appeals officer shall review, de novo, all written information submitted by the applicant or registered solicitor to the licensing officer, any additional information relied upon by the licensing officer as the basis for denial, suspension or revocation, and any additional information supplied by the County, applicant, or registered solicitor. Any additional information submitted by any party to the appeal to the appeals officer shall be simultaneously submitted to the opposing party. If desired, any party shall have three (3) business days to submit rebuttal documentation to the appeals officer regarding the additional information submitted by the opposing party. The appeals officer will render a decision no later than fifteen (15) calendar days from the date the appeal was taken unless an extension of time is agreed upon by the parties. In the event that any party to the appeal submits rebuttal information as allowed in Subsection B3, the fifteen (15) calendar days shall be extended to include the additional three (3) days for rebuttal. The denial or suspension of the certificate shall be reversed by the appeals officer if upon review of the written appeal and information submitted, the appeals officer finds that the licensing officer made a material mistake of law or fact in denying or suspending the applicant or registered solicitor’s certificate. If the written appeal and information submitted indicates that the licensing officer properly denied or suspended the certificate of the applicant or registered solicitor, the denial or suspension of the certificate shall be affirmed and constitute a determination that the suspended certificate is revoked. The decision of the appeals officer shall be delivered to the applicant or registered solicitor by the means designated in the completed application, or as otherwise agreed upon when the appeal was filed. After the ruling of the appeals officer, the applicant or solicitor is deemed to have exhausted all administrative remedies with the County. Nothing herein shall impede or interfere with the applicant’s, solicitor’s, or County’s right to seek relief in a court of competent jurisdiction.


===== 4.08.160 Deceptive Soliciting Practices Prohibited =====
No solicitor shall intentionally make any materially false or fraudulent statement while soliciting. A solicitor shall immediately disclose to the consumer during face-to-face solicitation the name of the solicitor; the name and address of the entity with whom the solicitor is associated; and the purpose of the solicitor's contact with the person and/or competent individual. The requirements in Subsection B may be satisfied with the badge and an informational flyer. No solicitor shall use a fictitious name, an alias, or any name other than the solicitor's true and correct name. No solicitor shall represent directly or by implication that the granting of a certificate of registration implies any endorsement by the County of the solicitor's goods or services or of the individual solicitor.


===== 4.08.170 "No Solicitation" Notice =====
Any occupant of a residence may give notice of a desire to refuse solicitors by displaying a “No solicitation” sign which shall be posted on or near the main entrance door or on or near the property line adjacent to the sidewalk leading to the residence. The display of such sign or placard shall be deemed to constitute notice to any solicitor that the inhabitant of the residence does not desire to receive and/or does not invite solicitors. It shall be the responsibility of the solicitor to check each residence for the presence of any such notice. The provisions of this section shall apply also to solicitors who are exempt from registration pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.


===== 4.08.180 Duties Of Solicitors =====
Every person soliciting or advocating shall check each residence for any "No soliciting" sign or placard or any other notice or sign notifying a solicitor not to solicit on the premises, such as, but not limited to, "No solicitation" signs. If such sign or placard is posted such solicitor shall desist from any efforts to solicit at the residence or dwelling and shall immediately depart from such property. Possession of a certificate of registration does not in any way relieve any solicitor of this duty. It is a violation of this chapter for any person soliciting or advocating to knock on the door, ring the doorbell, or in any other manner attempt to attract the attention of an occupant of a residence that bears a “No Solicitation” sign or similar sign or placard for the purpose of engaging in or attempting to engage in advocating, a home solicitation sale, door-to-door solicitation, or soliciting. It is a violation of this chapter for any solicitor through ruse, deception, or fraudulent concealment of a purpose to solicit, to take action calculated to secure an audience with an occupant at a residence. Any solicitor who is at any time asked by an occupant of a residence or dwelling to leave shall immediately and peacefully depart. The solicitor shall not intentionally or recklessly make any physical contact with, or touch another person without the person’s consent. The solicitor shall not follow a person into a residence without their explicit consent. The solicitor shall not continue repeated soliciting after a person and/or competent individual has communicated clearly and unequivocally their lack of interest in the subject, goods or services of the solicitor. The solicitor shall not use obscene language or gestures.


===== 4.08.190 Time Of Day Restrictions =====
It shall be unlawful for any person, whether licensed or not, to solicit at a residence before 9:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m. Mountain Time, unless the solicitor has express prior permission from the resident to do so.


===== 4.08.200 Buyer's Right To Cancel =====
In any home solicitation sate, unless the buyer requests the solicitor to provide goods or services without delay in an emergency, the seller or solicitor shall present to the buyer and obtain buyer's signature to a written statement which informs the buyer of the right to cancel within the third business day after signing an agreement to purchase. Such notice of "Buyer's right to cancel" shall be in the form required by Utah or Federal law modifying or amending such provision.


===== 4.08.210 Penalties =====
Any person who violates any term or provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or a jail sentence of not to exceed six (6) months.


===== 4.09 Alcoholic Beverages =====
4.09.010 Definitions 4.09.020 Proximity Restrictions 4.09.030 Hours Of Sale 4.09.040 Sale, Possession Of Beer 4.09.050 Possession Or Consumption Of Alcoholic Beverages In Public Parks 4.09.060 Furnishing False Evidence 4.09.070 Minors 4.09.090 Penalty 4.09.100 License Required 4.09.110 Separate Licenses 4.09.120 Compliance With Laws 4.09.130 Classifications 4.09.140 Application 4.09.150 Persons Not Entitled To License 4.09.160 Grant, Denial Or Revocation Of License 4.09.170 Discretion Of Commission In Granting License 4.09.180 License Not Vested Right 4.09.190 Sheriff's Report 4.09.200 County Health Department Approval 4.09.210 Purchase Of Beer By Licensee 4.09.220 Fee 4.09.230 Single Event Beer License 4.09.240 Required Class A Beer Handler's Permit 4.09.250 Application Process For Class A Beer Handler's Permit 4.09.260 Qualifications To Obtain A Class A Beer Handler's Permit 4.09.270 Penalties For Violations By A Permit Holder 4.09.280 Licensee Penalties 4.09.290 Right To A Hearing 4.09.300 Local Consent And License Required 4.09.310 Application For Local Consent 4.09.320 Qualifications 4.09.330 Grant Or Denial Of Local Consent 4.09.340 Violation A Nuisance


===== 4.09.010 Definitions =====
Words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the meanings set forth in Utah law the State's Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, or as listed below. 

"Beer" is classified as containing four percent (4%) or less of alcohol by weight or five percent (5%) of alcohol by volume.

"Class "A" Beer License" entitles the licensee to sell beer on the premises in original containers for consumption off the premises, however, that it is unlawful for the licensee to sell or distribute beer in any container larger than two (2) liters.

"Class "B" Beer License" entitles the licensee to sell beer for consumption on the premises, however, that it is unlawful for the licensee to sell or distribute beer in any container larger than two (2) liters. HISTORY Amended by Ord. 2020-597 on 7/29/2020


===== 4.09.020 Proximity Restrictions =====
Class "A" Beer licensed facility may not be located within six hundred (600) feet measured by ordinary pedestrian travel, or two hundred (200) feet measured in a straight line from the facility to a church, public or private school, a public park, public playground or a library.

Class "B" Beer licensed facility proximity restrictions are set-forth in the Utah State Alcoholic Beverage Control Act. HISTORY Amended by Ord. 2020-597 on 7/29/2020


===== 4.09.030 Hours Of Sale =====
Class “A” Beer License
No Class “A” Beer License holder, or any employee or agent of a Class “A” Beer License holder, shall sell or offer for sale beer between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. of the same day. Class “B” Beer License
Class “B” Beer License holder, or any employee or agent of a Class "B" Beer License holder, shall comply with the hours of sale as listed in Utah la State's Alcoholic Beverage Control Act.


===== 4.09.040 Sale, Possession Of Beer =====
It shall be unlawful for a licensee to sell or distribute beer in any container larger than two (2) liters.


===== 4.09.050 Possession Or Consumption Of Alcoholic Beverages In Public Parks =====
It shall be unlawful for any person to consume or possess beer, liquor, or alcoholic beverages in any public park. Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be guilty of an infraction.


===== 4.09.060 Furnishing False Evidence =====
Any person who sells, gives, or furnishes to any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years any false or fraudulent written, printed or photostatic evidence of the majority and identity of such person shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor.


===== 4.09.070 Minors =====
Class “A” Beer License – a minor may not sell beer on the licensed premises of an off-premise beer retailer unless:
 the sale is done under the supervision of a person twenty-one (21) years of age or older who is on the licensed premises; and the minor is at least sixteen (16) years of age. Class "B" Beer License - age restrictions on the licensed premises of an on-premise beer retailer are set for in Utah the State's Alcoholic Beverage Control Act.


===== 4.09.090 Penalty =====
Any person who shall engage in the business of wholesale or retail sale of beer within the County without having an appropriate license therefor from the County, or whose license issued by the County has been revoked, suspended, or canceled, or who shall violate any of the terms, clauses, or conditions of this chapter shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor, unless a different penalty shall be provided for such violation by this chapter.


===== 4.09.100 License Required =====
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of the sale of beer at retail in this County without first having procured a license therefor from the County as hereinafter provided.


===== 4.09.110 Separate Licenses =====
A separate license shall be required under the provisions of this chapter for each place of sale.


===== 4.09.120 Compliance With Laws =====
All licensees under the provisions of this chapter shall comply with the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, the regulations of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission and the provisions of this chapter.


===== 4.09.130 Classifications =====
Retail licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be of the following kinds and shall carry the following privileges: Class "A" Beer License shall entitle the licensee to sell beer on the premises described in the license in original containers for consumption off the premises. The licensee shall also obtain a license from the State of Utah meeting all applicable requirements, however, that it is unlawful for the licensee to sell or distribute beer in any container larger than two (2) liters. Class "B" Beer License shall entitle the licensee to sell beer for consumption on the premises described in the license, however, that it is unlawful for the licensee to sell or distribute beer in any container larger than two (2) liters. The licensee shall also obtain a license from the State of Utah meeting all applicable requirements which includes but is not limited to proximity restrictions and hours of sale.


===== 4.09.140 Application =====
All applications for licenses required under the provisions of this chapter shall be verified and filed with the Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission and shall state:
 the applicant's name in full; that he has complied with the requirements and possesses the qualifications specified in the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Act; if the applicant is a partnership, the names and addresses of the partners, or if a corporation the names and addresses of all officers and directors; and must be subscribed by the applicant, who must state under oath that the facts stated therein are true.


===== 4.09.150 Persons Not Entitled To License =====
No license required by the provisions of this chapter shall be granted to any retailer to sell beer unless the retailer shall be of good moral character, over the age of twenty-one (21) years, and a citizen of the United States, or to anyone who has been convicted of any felony or of any violation of any law or ordinance relating to intoxicating liquors, or of drunken driving, or of keeping a gambling or disorderly house or who has pleaded guilty to or has forfeited bail on a charge of having committed any felony or of having violated any such law or ordinance, or to any partnership, any member of which lacks any of the qualifications hereinbefore in this section set out, or to any corporation any director or officer of which lacks any of such qualifications.


===== 4.09.160 Grant, Denial Or Revocation Of License =====
The Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission may, with or without a hearing at its discretion, grant or refuse to grant any license applied or revoke any license at any time, and in no such case need any cause be stated. No license shall be issued, and any license issued shall be revoked, if the applicant or licensee shall not possess or shall cease to possess all qualifications required by the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Act or fail to comply with the ordinances of the County, or the rules, regulations, and orders of the Board of Health relating to health matters. All licenses shall have incorporated therein the statement that they are granted subject to revocation, as provided in this chapter.


===== 4.09.170 Discretion Of Commission In Granting License =====
Nothing in this chapter shall in any way limit the right of the County Commission to act upon any application for a beer license as it shall deem fair, just, and proper in regard to granting or denying the application.


===== 4.09.180 License Not Vested Right =====
The issuance of a license as provided in this chapter shall grant only a mere revocable privilege to sell beer as provided in this chapter and the laws of Utah and shall not confer any vested right of any kind or nature.


===== 4.09.190 Sheriff's Report =====
Upon receipt of an application for a retail beer license, the Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission may require the sheriff to report in writing within five (5) days giving the following details regarding the premises proposed to be licensed: the general reputation and character of the persons who habitually frequent such place; the nature and kind of business conducted at such place by the applicant, or by any other person, or by the applicant at any other place; whether the place is or has been conducted in a lawful, quiet and orderly manner; the nature and kind of entertainment, if any, at the place; whether gambling is or has been permitted upon the premises, or by the applicant at any other place; whether there are safety concerns with the location of the place including the roads likely to be traveled to and from the place and the availability of hotels or motels in the immediate vicinity of the place; and the Sheriff's recommendation as to granting or denying the application.


===== 4.09.200 County Health Department Approval =====
An applicant may be required to procure from the County Health Department a permit which shall show that the premises to be licensed are in a sanitary condition and that the equipment used in the storage, distribution and sale of beer complies with all health regulations of the County and of the State of Utah. Upon recommendation of the County Health Officer, any permit issued by the County Health Department may be revoked or suspended when any reasonable order, rule, or regulation of the County Health Department has not been complied.


===== 4.09.210 Purchase Of Beer By Licensee =====
It shall be unlawful for any licensee under the provisions of this chapter to purchase or acquire, or to have or possess for the purpose of sale or distribution, any beer except that which the licensee shall have lawfully purchased from a brewer or wholesaler licensed under the privileges of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Act.


===== 4.09.220 Fee =====
Any application for a license to sell beer shall be accompanied with a fee in the amount set forth in the Utah County Government Fee Schedule adopted in book form by UCC 2.01.060, relating to the Fee Schedule for Business Licenses for Class “A” and Class “B” beer licenses.


===== 4.09.230 Single Event Beer License =====
A single event beer license shall enable a licensee to sell beer, including draft, for consumption in conjunction with a special event in open containers not exceeding one (1) liter provided that the licensee complies with the following: A single event beer license shall not be issued to or in the name of an individual, natural person. An applicant organization, an artificial entity, must have been in existence as a bona fide organization registered with a state government for at least one (1) year prior to the date of application. To ensure the proposed event will promote economic benefit to the County, the organization, prior to the issuance of a license, must establish that a minimum of thirty percent (30%) of attendees at the proposed event reside outside of the County. The organization, prior to the issuance of a license, must provide three (3) letters of reference from local jurisdictions (city or county) where it has previously held events, the letters shall address the organization’s compliance with laws, attention to public safety and overall experience with the organization. The organization shall also provide a list and contact information for all local jurisdictions where it has held events during the most recent two (2) years. A single event beer license shall be valid for a period of time not to exceed three (3) consecutive calendar days. Not more than two (2) permits may be issued to the same organization in the same calendar year. The organization shall submit a written plan, to be approved by the license official prior to the issuance of a license, generally describing the proposed event and demonstrating how the organization will prevent the sale or distribution of beer to minors and how it will limit consumption by attendees to a responsible level. Beer shall be sold in an area separated from the event by a barrier, approved by the license official, where persons under the age of twenty-one (21) years shall not be allowed. The sale and consumption of beer shall be restricted to the immediate proximity of the event. Attendees of the event shall not bring any alcoholic beverage into the event. A single event beer licensee shall abide by all requirements regarding hours of operation, restriction on minors, application procedures including the sheriff’s report as provided for herein, and all other relevant operational restrictions contained in this chapter and set forth by state statute including licensure with the State of Utah Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control and compliance with the Utah Alcoholic Beverage Control Act. Before any single event beer license shall be issued, a cash or surety bond in the amount of three thousand dollars ($3,000) shall be filed by the applicant with the Public Works Department. Such bond shall be in addition to, administered in the same fashion as, and may be added to the bond required under the County Code provisions governing Large Public Assemblies, UCC 7.03.020 Subsection D. Such bond shall be conditioned for the repair of any damage and the prompt cleaning of any debris or waste material produced or left by the assembly. A single event license for sale of liquor shall not be granted.


===== 4.09.240 Required Class A Beer Handler's Permit =====
A Licensee involved in the transaction of retail beer sales for off-premise consumption (Class “A” retail sales) shall require any and all employees involved in the transaction of retail beer sales to obtain a Beer Handler’s Permit from the County Health Department. All employees of a Licensee involved in the transaction of retail beer sales will be required to possess and wear a Beer Handler’s Permit while on duty. This permit shall be worn in a conspicuous place such that the permit shall be clearly visible to any person. New employees of Licensee shall obtain a Beer Handler’s Permit within thirty (30) days of hire. During this thirty (30) day period, the employee may sell alcoholic beverages in accordance with the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, the regulations of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission, and the provisions of this chapter. The Licensee is required to inform the County Health Department of any employee possessing a Beer Handler’s Permit whose employment is terminated for conduct that would be punishable under the statutes or ordinances regulating alcoholic beverages. Licensees shall permit law enforcement officers and County Health Department employees to conduct random Beer Handler’s Permit compliance checks on licensee’s premises.


===== 4.09.250 Application Process For Class A Beer Handler's Permit =====
To obtain a Beer Handler’s Permit, applicants must: fill out a “Beer Handler’s Permit” application form available from the County Health Department; produce acceptable photo identification showing the identity of the applicant; attend a Beer Handler’s Permit training session administered by, or approved by, the County Health Department; and pass the Beer Handler’s Permit test given by the County Health Department. If Subsections A1, A2, A3, and A4, are satisfied, the County Health Department shall issue the applicant a Beer Handler’s Permit photo identification card. This permit must be possessed and conspicuously worn by the applicant while on duty such that the permit shall be clearly visible to any person.


===== 4.09.260 Qualifications To Obtain A Class A Beer Handler's Permit =====
The County Health Department shall not grant a Beer Handler’s Permit to any individual who has had a felony conviction within three (3) years or a misdemeanor conviction involving alcohol or controlled substances within one (1) year.


===== 4.09.270 Penalties For Violations By A Permit Holder =====
A violation of this chapter or of any law involving the sale of an alcoholic beverage is a class B misdemeanor. Additionally, an employee possessing a Beer Handler’s Permit who is convicted of any law involving the sale of an alcoholic beverage is not only subject to the penalties in UCC 1.04.010, but shall incur a suspension of the employee’s Beer Handler’s Permit as follows: 1st violation – automatic suspension of the employee’s Beer Handler’s Permit for a period of one (1) year. 2nd violation – automatic suspension of the employee’s Beer Handler’s Permit for a period of one (1) year. Any subsequent violation – automatic suspension of the employee’s Beer Handler’s Permit for a period of three (3) years. The licensee shall report any known violation involving the sale of an alcoholic beverage to the County Health Department within thirty (30) days.


===== 4.09.280 Licensee Penalties =====
Any violation of this chapter by a licensee or any employee of the licensee shall subject the licensee to the following penalties: Upon first violation of this chapter the licensee shall be issued a warning; Upon any violation of this chapter which occurs within twenty-four (24) months of a prior violation, the licensee shall pay a civil fine of two-hundred-fifty dollars ($250.00); Upon any violation of this chapter which occurs within twenty-four (24) months of two (2) prior violations, the licensee shall pay a civil fine of five-hundred dollars ($500.00) and the licensee shall have its license to sell beer suspended for a period of three (3) consecutive days, on a Thursday through Saturday; Upon any violation of this chapter which occurs within twenty-four (24) months of three (3) prior violations, the licensee shall pay a civil fine of five-hundred dollars ($500.00) and the licensee shall have its license to sell beer suspended for a period of thirty (30) consecutive days. Additionally, the licensee shall be placed on probation for a period of one (1) year. Any violation of this chapter by the licensee or any employee of the licensee during the period of probation shall result in the revocation of the licensee’s license to sell beer. The licensee shall not be eligible to reapply for a new license for at least six (6) months from the date of revocation. Failure to pay any fine imposed for a violation of any provision of this chapter within thirty (30) days of the imposition of such fine, shall be grounds for revocation of the licensee’s license to sell beer. Nothing in this chapter shall limit the rights and powers of the County Commission to grant, refuse to grant, or revoke a licensee’s license to sell beer under UCC 4.09.160.


===== 4.09.290 Right To A Hearing =====
The licensee shall have the right to request a hearing to contest the existence of any violation of this chapter or the imposition of any penalty under this chapter. A written request for a hearing must be filed by the licensee with the Chair of the County Commission and with the County Attorney within fifteen (15) days of the date of mailing of the County’s notice of violation to the licensee. The request for a hearing shall include the licensee’s name, address, telephone number, and a statement of the licensee’s basis for disputing the existence of a violation or the imposition of a penalty. A timely request for a hearing shall stay the imposition of any penalty until the hearing is decided. The County’s finding of a violation shall be considered final if the licensee fails to request a hearing within the time period set forth above. The County Commission shall notify the licensee in writing of the date and time for the hearing. Hearings before the County Commission shall be conducted informally. Formal rules of evidence and court procedure shall not apply. The hearings are administrative in nature, and hearsay is admissible, but the evidence must have some probative weight and reliability to be considered. The licensee shall be given an opportunity to be heard at the hearing, shall have the right to be represented by counsel, and may call witnesses. The County Commission shall consider all of the evidence and shall take any action they deem appropriate as it relates to the licensee. The County Commission ’s decision shall be made orally at the end of the hearing or in writing within ten (10) business days following the hearing.


===== 4.09.300 Local Consent And License Required =====
When an applicant desires a license or permit from the Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission, the Utah Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control requires written consent of the local authority. The County Commission shall have authority to grant or deny such consent.


===== 4.09.310 Application For Local Consent =====
In order to obtain local consent from the County Commission, the applicant shall submit the application provided by the Utah Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control. The completed application, together with all required attachments, shall be submitted to the County Commission for consideration during a regularly scheduled public meeting.


===== 4.09.320 Qualifications =====
The County Commission may not grant local consent to a person, partnership, corporation, or other entity, if the person, any partner, managing agent, officer, director, or stockholder who holds at least twenty percent (20%) of the total issued and outstanding stock of an applicant corporation, has been convicted of: a felony under any federal or state law; any violation of any federal or state law or local ordinance concerning the sale, manufacture, distribution, warehousing, adulteration, or transportation of alcoholic beverages; or any crime involving moral turpitude.


===== 4.09.330 Grant Or Denial Of Local Consent =====
Following receipt of the Application for Local Consent, together with all required attachments, the County Commission shall place the matter upon the agenda of a regularly scheduled public meeting for consideration. Before granting local consent, the County Commission shall: determine that the applicant has complied with all basic qualifications and requirements for making application for local consent and that the application is complete; consider the locality within which the proposed liquor license is sought, including but not limited to: physical characteristics such as condition of the premises, square footage, and parking availability; and operational factors such as tourist traffic, proximity to and density of other state stores, package agencies, and outlets, demographics, population to be served, and the extent of and proximity to any school, church, public library, public playground, or public park; consider the applicant's ability to manage and operate a facility with a liquor license, including but not limited to management experience, past retail liquor experience, and the type of management scheme employed by the applicant; consider the nature or type of facility or operation, including but not limited to, the type of menu items offered and emphasized, whether the facility emphasizes service to an adult clientele or to minors, the hours of operation, the seating capacity of the facility, and the gross sales of food items; and consider any other factors or circumstances it considers necessary.


===== 4.09.340 Violation A Nuisance =====
Any premises which shall be found in violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a nuisance as defined in this code. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain such a nuisance within the County.


===== 4.10 Cable Television Franchise =====
4.10.010 Grant Of Authority 4.10.020 Conditions On Street Occupancy 4.10.030 Indemnity And Liability Coverage 4.10.040 Compliance With Applicable Laws And Ordinances 4.10.050 Use Of System By County 4.10.060 System Construction And Extension 4.10.070 Consent To Use Existing Utility Facilities 4.10.080 Franchise Payment 4.10.090 Approval Of Transfer 4.10.100 County Rules 4.10.110 Supervision And Inspection 4.10.120 Binding On Assigns 4.10.130 Time To Commence Construction 4.10.140 Forfeiture 4.10.150 Rates 4.10.160 Local Office Complaints


===== 4.10.010 Grant Of Authority =====
There is hereby granted to Community Cable of Utah, Inc., a Colorado Corporation, its successors and assigns for a period beginning from and after the effective date of Ordinance No. 1981-17, and until the thirty-first day of December, 1996, the right and privilege to construct, erect, operate and maintain in, upon, along, across, above, under and over the streets, alleys, public ways and public places now or hereafter laid out or dedicated, and all extensions thereof and additions thereto in Utah County, Utah, poles, wires, coaxial and other cables, underground conduits, manholes, and such other television conductors and fixtures as are necessary or proper for the maintenance and operation in the County of a system for the transmission of television, FM radio, and electrical impulses and signals for all public and private use; provided, however, that such poles or other fixtures placed on any street shall be placed at the outer edge of the sidewalk and inside the curb line, and those placed in alleys shall be placed close to the line on the lot abutting said alleys and then in such a manner as not to interfere with the usual travel on said streets, alleys and public ways, and provided further that underground conduits, cables and other facilities shall be located and constructed in such a manner and placed at such depths as not to interfere with the facilities of the County or any public utility operating by virtue of any prior ordinance adopted by the County or otherwise, or with the grading and maintenance of such streets, alleys and public ways and, before constructing any such facilities the County shall be furnished complete drawings of any construction pursuant to the provisions of Ordinance No. 1981-17, and that the County shall keep and maintain permanent records of the location and character of any underground facilities constructed and the relationship of such facilities to those of the County and public utilities operating within the County. Nonexclusive Grant : The right to use and occupy said streets, alleys, public ways and places for the purposes herein set forth shall not be exclusive, and the County reserves the right to grant a similar use of said streets, alleys, public ways and places, to any person at any time during the period of this franchise.


===== 4.10.020 Conditions On Street Occupancy =====
Use : All transmission and distribution structures, and equipment erected by the grantee within the County shall be so located as to cause minimum interference with the proper use of streets, alleys and other public ways and places, and to cause minimum interference with the rights or reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin any of the said streets, alleys or other public ways and places. Restoration : In case of any disturbance of pavement sidewalk, drivewalk, driveway or other surfacing, the grantee shall, at its own cost and expense, and in a manner approved by the County Engineer, replace and restore all paving, sidewalk, driveway or surface of any street or alley disturbed. Grantee shall obtain and pay for all permits required by ordinance for and shall be subject to all ordinances relating to excavations or obstructions made by grantee in streets or alleys. Relocation : In event that at any time during the period of this franchise the County shall lawfully elect to alter, or change the grade of, any street, alley or other public way, the grantee, upon reasonable notice by the County, shall remove, relay and relocate its poles, wires, cables, underground conduits, manholes and other fixtures at its own expense so as to comply with the requirements of grantor. Placement of Fixtures : The grantee shall not place poles or other fixtures where the same will interfere with any gas, electric or telephone fixture, water hydrant or main, and all such poles or other fixtures placed in any street shall be placed at the outer edge of the sidewalk and inside the curb line, and those placed in alleys shall be placed close to a line of the lot abutting on side alley, and then in such a manner as not to interfere with the usual travel on said streets, alleys and public ways. Grantee agrees to conform to requirements of the County Surveyor's department in regard to all installations, and specifically that in any area where electrical utilities are installed underground, that grantee will likewise install all equipment and cables underground. Temporary Removal of Wire for Building Moving : The grantee shall, on the request of any person holding a building moving permit issued by the County, temporarily raise or lower its wires to permit the moving of buildings. The expense of such temporary removal, raising or lowering of wires shall be paid by the person requesting the same, and the grantee shall have the authority to require such payment in advance. The grantee shall be given not less than seventy-two (72) hours advance notice to arrange for such temporary wire changes. Tree Trimming : The grantee shall have the authority to trim trees upon and overhanging streets, alleys, sidewalks, and public places of the County so as to prevent the branches of such trees from coming in contact with the wires and cables of the grantee, all trimming to be done under the supervision and direction of the County and at the expense and liability of the grantee.


===== 4.10.030 Indemnity And Liability Coverage =====
It is expressly understood and agreed by and between the grantee and the County that the grantee shall hold the County harmless from all loss sustained by the County on account of any suit, judgment, execution, claim or demand whatsoever, resulting from negligence on the part of the grantee in the construction, operation or maintenance of its system in the County. The County shall notify the grantee's representative in the County within thirty (30) days after the presentation of any claim or demand, either by suit or otherwise, made against the County on account of any negligence as aforesaid on the part of the grantee. The grantee agrees to maintain and keep in full force and effect at all times during the term of this franchise ordinance sufficient liability insurance coverage to protect the County against any such claims, suits, judgment, executions or demands in a sum not less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per person in any one claim, three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) as to any one accident or occurrence, and not less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for property damage as to any one accident or occurrence, the County to be named as an insured.


===== 4.10.040 Compliance With Applicable Laws And Ordinances =====
The grantee shall, at all times during the life of this franchise, be subject to all lawful exercise of the police power by the County, and to such reasonable regulation as the County shall hereafter by resolution or ordinance provide, and shall fully comply with all applicable rules and regulations now in effect or hereafter adopted by the Federal Communications Commission, the State of Utah and the United States Government.


===== 4.10.050 Use Of System By County =====
The County shall have the right, without cost, to make attachments to poles owned and used by the grantee within the County for County wire used by the County in connection with its fire alarm or police signal systems; such attachments to be installed and maintained in accordance with the requirements of the National Electrical Safety Code pertaining to such construction, and only after written notices to the grantee; provided, however, that the grantee shall assume no liability nor be put to any additional expense in connection therewith, and provided further that the County's use thereof shall be in such manner as not to interfere with the grantee's use of the same.


===== 4.10.060 System Construction And Extension =====
The grantee is hereby authorized to extend the system within the franchise area to the extent that such extension is or may become technically and economically feasible. Whenever the grantee shall have received written requests for service from at least fifteen (15) subscribers within four hundred (400) cable meters (thirteen hundred (1300) cable feet) of its aerial trunk cable, or from at least twenty-five (25) subscribers within four hundred (400) cable meters (thirteen hundred (1300) cable feet) of its underground trunk cable, it shall extend its system to such subscribers solely for the usual connection and service fees for all subscribers, provided that such extension is technically and economically feasible. The four hundred (400) meters shall be measured in extension length of grantee's cable required for service located within the public way or easement and shall not include length of necessary drop to the subscriber's home or premises. No person in the grantee's service area shall be arbitrarily refused service; but in recognition of the capital costs involved in unusual circumstances, including, without limitation, instances when the distance from distribution cable to connection of service to subscribers is more than forty five (45) meters (one hundred fifty (150) cable feet) or when a subscriber density exists less than the density specified hereinabove, service may be made available on the basis of costs of materials, labor and easements, in order to prevent inequitable burdens on cable subscribers in more densely populated areas. For all residential structures hereinafter erected which are to be served by underground utilities, the developer of the subdivision of development may acquire CATV service for this development under the following conditions; but otherwise the grantee shall not be obligated to construct CATV system in such new development: Developer shall perform all trenching and backfilling necessary for the provision of cable television service, including furnishing of any imported backfill material required, and will furnish and install for the grantee any necessary distribution conduit and substructures, including pedestals, required in accordance with the grantee's plans and specifications. Developer may enter into a written agreement with the grantee whereby such costs may be reimbursed to the developer by grantee at the rate of fifty (50) percent of basic subscriber revenues generated from CATV service supplied within the development over a period not to exceed three (3) years. In addition to providing plans and specifications to the developer, the grantee shall inspect the facilities required hereunder, and certify to the County prior to final approval of the subdivision or development that the facilities required herein are properly installed. The County shall have the right to review and require its approval of the maps and specifications provided by the grantee. The costs of that portion of an extension to a subdivision or development from the grantee's existing facilities in excess of sixty (60) meters (two hundred (200) feet) outside the boundaries of the subdivision or development shall be borne by the developer. Facilities installed hereunder shall be owned, operated and maintained by grantee.


===== 4.10.070 Consent To Use Existing Utility Facilities =====
The County hereby gives its consent to Mountain States Telephone and Telegraph Company, Utah Power and Light Company and any other utility company to authorize the grantee to use their poles, underground conduits, and other facilities for the purpose of conducting the business of the grantee and to attach coaxial and other cables, lines, conduits, transformers and other electrical equipment thereto. Grantee shall nevertheless obtain appropriate consent and shall contract with such companies for approval for the use of such poles, towers and conduits as are owned by said Mountain States Telephone and Telegraph Company, Utah Power and Light Company and other utilities and companies respectively pursuant to the provisions of such ordinance. The rights granted to the grantee pursuant to the provisions of UCC 4.10.010 shall be supplemental and additional to those granted to the Mountain State Telephone and Telegraph Company, Utah Power and Light Company and other utilities and companies who have been granted franchises; provided, nevertheless, that the poles of such telephone and power companies shall be utilized by the grantee hereunder wherever practicable.


===== 4.10.080 Franchise Payment =====
The grantee shall pay the County, on or before each March 31st, a franchise fee of three percent (3%) of basic subscriber revenues received for cable television operations in the County for the preceding calendar year, and no other fee, charge or consideration. Sales tax or other taxes levied on a per subscription basis and collected by the grantee shall be deducted from the gross annual basic subscriber revenues in computing any sums due the County. The grantee shall provide an annual summary report showing gross annual basic subscriber revenues received during the preceding year.


===== 4.10.090 Approval Of Transfer =====
The grantee shall not sell or transfer its plant or system to another nor transfer any rights under this franchise to another without prior written approval of the County Commission and provided, that no sale or transfer shall be effective until the vended, assignee or lessee has filed in the office of the County Recorder an instrument, duly executed, reciting the fact of such sale, assignment or lease, accepting the terms of the franchise, and agreeing to perform all the conditions thereof.


===== 4.10.100 County Rules =====
The right is hereby reserved to the County to adopt, in addition to the provisions herein contained and existing applicable ordinances, such additional regulations as it shall find necessary in the exercise of the police power, provided that such regulations, by ordinance or otherwise, shall be reasonable, and not in conflict with the laws of the State of Utah.


===== 4.10.110 Supervision And Inspection =====
All construction or installation work performed subject to the provisions of this chapter, shall be subject to approval of the County Engineer and to such inspection as the County Engineer shall find necessary to ensure compliance with governing ordinances.


===== 4.10.120 Binding On Assigns =====
The rights granted by this franchise ordinance shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the heirs, assigns, grantees and successors in interest of the parties.


===== 4.10.130 Time To Commence Construction =====
The grantee shall begin construction of the system within sixty (60) days after all licenses, permits and other authority requisite for the operation of microwave facilities is obtained and pole line agreements and all other necessary legal requirements for the installation of the system are satisfied.


===== 4.10.140 Forfeiture =====
Any violation by the grantee, its vendee, lessee or successor, of the provisions of this franchise, or any material portions thereof, or the failure to promptly perform any of the provisions thereof shall be cause for forfeiture of this franchise and all rights hereunder to the County, after written notice to the grantee and continuation of such violation, failure or default, sixty (60) days after such notice.


===== 4.10.150 Rates =====
The Company's rates shall be no more than: Single Dwelling Connection Charge Monthly Charge First TV outlet $25.00 $7.50 These rates may be increased only with prior approval of the County after an appropriate public hearing affording due process. From time to time, the company may seek approval of the County for a rate increase; however, rates approved shall remain in effect for not less than twelve (12) calendar months after effective date. The County Commission approval of subscriber rates shall not be unreasonably withheld.


===== 4.10.160 Local Office Complaints =====
The company shall maintain a local business office or agent which subscribers may telephone during regular business hours without incurring added message or toll charges so that CATV maintenance service shall be promptly available. Should a subscriber have unresolved complaints regarding the quality of cable television service, equipment malfunction or similar matters, the subscriber shall be entitled to meet jointly with a representative of the franchised County and a representative of the company within thirty (30) days to fully discuss and resolve such matters. 5 ANIMALS 5.01 In General 5.02 Impoundment 5.03 Licensing And Registration 5.04 Rabies Control


===== 5.01 In General =====
5.01.010 Definitions 5.01.020 Penalty 5.01.030 Enforcement Generally 5.01.040 Right Of Entry For Enforcement 5.01.050 Power And Authority Of Animal Control Sergeant 5.01.060 Investigations 5.01.070 Hindering And Obstructing Enforcement 5.01.080 Conditions Of Animal Ownership 5.01.090 Wild Animals 5.01.100 Dogs Running At Large 5.01.110 Cats 5.01.120 Public Nuisance 5.01.130 Attacks By Dogs 5.01.140 Vicious Animals 5.01.150 Possession Of A Vicious Dog 5.01.160 Allowing Vicious Animals To Go At Large 5.01.170 Guard Dogs 5.01.180 Judicially Excluded Animals 5.01.190 Livestock 5.01.200 Cruelty To Animals 5.01.210 Dog Fighting 5.01.220 Animal Fighting Exhibitions 5.01.230 Authority To Arrest And Take Possession Of Dogs And Property 5.01.240 Officers Authority To Take Possession Of Animals - Lien For Care 5.01.250 Number Of Animals 5.01.260 Kennel Regulations 5.01.270 General Regulations Relating To Animals 5.01.280 Loss Of Privilege To Maintain Dog In County 5.01.290 Injuries And Communicable Diseases 5.01.300 Fees, Charges, Etc.


===== 5.01.010 Definitions =====
For the purpose of this title, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them: "Animal" means birds, reptiles, and mammals other than the genus homo sapiens. "Animal at large" means any domesticated animal, whether or not licensed, not under restraint. “Animal Control Sergeant” means the County Animal Control Sergeant or Lieutenant, or their authorized Deputy. "Animal under restraint" means any animal under control of its owner or person having charge, care, custody, or control. Except that a dog shall not be considered under control of the owner unless on a leash or lead, confined within a vehicle, or within the real property limits of the owner. "Bite" means an actual puncture, tear, or abrasion of the skin, inflicted by the teeth of an animal. "Cat" means any age feline of the domesticated types. "County" means the unincorporated area of Utah County. "Animal shelter" means lot, premises, or buildings for confinement and care of the animals seized under the provisions of this title. "Department" means the Utah County Sheriff's Office, Enforcement Division, Patrol Bureau, Animal Control, its agents and deputies. "Dog" means a Canis familiaris of any sex, altered, or unaltered, or any other member of the Canis genus if owned or kept. "Dog license" means a properly completed and validated "dog license application-rabies certificate form" issued by the County or other official dog licensing agency. "Dog license application-rabies certificate form" means the official dog license application form issued by the County. It is properly completed when it contains: the dog owner's name, address, and telephone number; the dog's name and description; the type, lot number, and manufacturer of the rabies vaccine; the date of vaccination; and the signature of the veterinarian who vaccinated the dog or other signature authorized by the veterinarian. "Domesticated animal" means any animal accustomed to live in or about the habitation of man, including but not limited to cats, dogs, fowl, horses, swine, cattle, sheep, and goats. "Guard dog" means a working dog which must be kept in a fenced run or other suitable enclosure during business hours, or on leash or under absolute control while working, so it cannot come into contact with the public. "Impounded animal" means any animal taken into custody by the department as provided in this title. "Kennel" means any lot, building structure, enclosure or premises whereupon or wherein eight (8) or more dogs over six (6) months of age are kept or maintained for any purpose. Including boarding, breeding, buying, grooming, letting for hire, training for fee, or selling. "Leash" means any rope, leather strap, chain or other material being held in the hand of the person capable of control and actually controlling the animal to which it is tied. "Licensed dog" means a dog wearing its current dog license tag as required by this title. "License tag" means a piece of metal or other durable material inscribed with a date and number which has been issued by County or other official dog-licensing agency. "Neutered" means having had the testicles removed; a castrated animal. "Owner" means any person who is either the legal owner, keeper, possessor, or the actual custodian of an animal. Ownership is established by a person registering as owner on a license or other legal document or being a person claiming ownership and taking possession of an animal. "Quarantine" means the isolation of an animal under the observation of a licensed veterinarian or in the custody of the animal shelter in a substantial enclosure so that the animal is not subject to contact with other animals or unauthorized persons. "Spayed" means having had the ovaries and uterus removed or extirpated; an ovariohysterectomy. "Stray" means an animal which is at large. "Vaccinated dog" means a dog inoculated with an approved, currently valid, antirabies vaccine, and wearing a current dog license tag indicating proof of such vaccination. "Vicious animal": with a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack unprovoked, to cause injury to, or to otherwise endanger the safety of humans or other domestic animals; which attacks a human being or other domestic animal without provocation; or which is trained or used as a fighting animal. This provision shall not apply to dogs owned or used by government entity. "Wild animals" means any animals of a species that in their natural life are wild, including hybrids and animals which, as a result of their natural or wild condition, cannot be vaccinated effectively for rabies. These animals, however domesticated, shall be limited to: Alligators and crocodiles; Bears (Ursidae). All bears, including grizzly bears, brown bears, black bears, etc.; Cat Family (Felidae). All except the commonly accepted domesticated cats, and including cheetah, cougar, leopard, lion, lynx, panther, mountain lion, tiger, wildcat, bobcat, etc.; Dog Family (Canidae). All except domesticated dogs, and including wolf, part wolf, fox, part fox, coyote, part coyote, dingo, etc.; Porcupine (Erethizontidae); Primate (Non-human). All subhuman primates; Raccoon (Prosynnidae). All raccoons, including eastern raccoon, desert raccoon, ringtailed cat, etc.; Skunks; Venomous fish and piranha; Venomous snakes and lizards; Weasels (Mustelidae). All weasels, martens, wolverines, ferrets, badgers, otters, ermine, mink, mongoose, etc. Despite the restrictions stated above, there shall be an exception granted to persons raising wild animals as defined for their pelts as a legitimate commercial purpose.

The keeping of any wild animal which existed prior to 1981 may be continued, except that if it is discontinued for one (1) year or more it shall then be deemed abandoned and any future keeping of wild animals shall be in conformity with this title.


===== 5.01.020 Penalty =====
Any person violating any provision of this title shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor unless a different penalty shall be provided for such violation by this title.


===== 5.01.030 Enforcement Generally =====
The department, each agent or deputy thereof who is assigned to duties which include the enforcement of animal regulation laws, and any peace officer, are responsible for enforcing the provisions of this title and other provisions of state law which they have a duty to enforce. Each of the individuals referred to in Subsection A shall have the power to make arrests for violations of those provisions of this title and of state law which the individual has a duty to enforce and to issue citations for such violations.


===== 5.01.040 Right Of Entry For Enforcement =====
In the enforcement of any provision of this title, any animal control officer or authorized agent or deputy may enter the premises of any person to take possession of any animal in violation of this title.


===== 5.01.050 Power And Authority Of Animal Control Sergeant =====
In the performance of the Animal Control Sergeant, the Animal Control Sergeant is hereby vested with the power and authority of deputies within the County Sheriff's office. Badges of authority shall be issued by the County Sheriff, and the recipient thereof shall be duly sworn in as a Deputy Sheriff of the County.


===== 5.01.060 Investigations =====
The department, public health officer and any peace officer may enter privately owned land to investigate reports of vicious animals, rabies, or other contagious animal diseases, and to investigate violations of and enforce the provisions of this title.


===== 5.01.070 Hindering And Obstructing Enforcement =====
It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, molest, hinder or prevent the animal control officer from discharging the officer's duties. Any person who shall hinder, delay, interfere with, or obstruct a POST certified officer while engaging in capturing, securing or taking to the animal shelter any animal or animals to be impounded, or who shall break open or in any manner directly or indirectly aid, counsel, or advise the breaking open of any animal shelter or ambulance, wagon or other vehicle used for the collecting or conveying of any animals to the shelter shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor.


===== 5.01.080 Conditions Of Animal Ownership =====
Animal owners or keepers shall comply with the following conditions of animal ownership, and may be required as a condition of licensing such owners or keepers to sign a contract agreeing to comply with these conditions: animals shall be restrained or confined as required by law; animals shall be humanely treated at all times; vaccinations, licenses, and permits shall be obtained as required by law; animal premises shall be kept sanitary and shall not constitute a fly-breeding reservoir, a source of offensive odors or of human or animal disease; and animals and animal premises shall not be permitted to disturb the peace or constitute a public nuisance or hazard.


===== 5.01.090 Wild Animals =====
Except for government agencies or otherwise as provided for by state or federal laws or regulations, it is unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, barter, give away, keep, own, harbor, or purchase any wild animal.


===== 5.01.100 Dogs Running At Large =====
It is unlawful for the owner or person having charge, care, custody, or control of any dog to allow such dog at any time to run at large. The owner or person charged with responsibility for a dog found running at large shall be strictly liable for any violation(s) committed by the dog, regardless of whether or not the person knows the dog is running at large. However, dogs may be at large while participation in field trials and obedience classes organized and sanctioned by recognized dog clubs, while assisting their owner or trainer in legal hunting or in herding of livestock, while assisting a peace officer engaged in law enforcement duties, or while being trained for the above purposes so long as such dogs are under direct and effective sound or gesture control within sight of such individuals to assure that they do not violate any other provisions of law.


===== 5.01.110 Cats =====
It is unlawful, and an infraction, for the owner or person having charge, care, custody, or control of any cat to allow such cat to run at large on the property of another. The owner or person charged with responsibility for a cat found running at large shall be strictly liable for any violation(s) committed by the cat, regardless of whether or not the person knows the cat is running at large.


===== 5.01.120 Public Nuisance =====
The introduction, possession, or maintenance of any animal contrary to this title, or allowing of any animal to be in contravention of this title is, in addition to being unlawful, hereby declared to be a public nuisance. The department, public health officer, and peace officers, are hereby authorized, directed, and empowered to summarily abate any such public nuisance by any means reasonably necessary, including but not limited to the destruction of the animal or animals involved. Any animal which does any of the following shall be deemed a nuisance: causes damage to the property of anyone other than its owner or custodian; is a vicious animal as defined in this title and kept in a manner contrary to this title; causes unreasonable fouling of the air by odors; causes unsanitary conditions in enclosures or surroundings; defecates on any public sidewalk, park or building, or on any private property without the consent of the owner of such private property unless the owner or custodian of such animal shall remove any such defecation to a proper trash receptacle; Unsighted persons while relying on a guide dog shall be exempt from this section; barks, whines, or howls, or makes other disturbing noises in an excessive, continuous, or untimely fashion; molests passersby or chases passing vehicles; attacks other domestic animals; or otherwise acts so as to constitute a nuisance or public nuisance under the provisions of Utah Code 76-10; An animal is a nuisance if it is determined by the department to be a nuisance by virtue of being offensive or dangerous to the public health, welfare, or safety. Any animals which, by virtue of the number maintained, are determined by the department to be offensive or dangerous to the public health, welfare or safety.


===== 5.01.130 Attacks By Dogs =====
Attacking Dogs : It is unlawful for the owner or person having charge, care, custody, or control of any dog to allow such dog to attack, chase, or worry any person, any domestic animal having a commercial value, or any species of hoofed protected wildlife, or to attack domestic fowl. "Worry," as used in this section, means to harass by tearing, biting, or shaking with the teeth. Owner Liability : The owner in violation of Subsection A shall be strictly liable for violation of this section. In addition to being subject to prosecution under Subsection A, the owner of such dog shall also be liable in damages to any person injured, or to the owner of any animal(s) injured or destroyed thereby. Defenses : The following shall be considered in mitigating the penalties or damages, or in dismissing the charge: that the dog was properly confined on the premises; or that the dog was deliberately or maliciously provoked. Dogs May be Killed : In accordance with Utah Code § 18-1-3, any person may injure or kill a dog while: the dog is attacking, chasing, or worrying: a domestic animal having a commercial value; a service animal, as defined in Utah Code § 62A-5b-102; or any species of hoofed protected wildlife; the dog is attacking domestic fowls; or the dog is being pursued for committing an act described above.


===== 5.01.140 Vicious Animals =====
An animal control officer upon probable cause that a violation of this section has occurred may require the owner or custodian of a vicious animal to deliver possession of the animal to an animal control officer. If after demand, the owner or custodian fails or refuses to deliver possession of the animal to an animal control officer, the animal control officer may request an order from a court of competent jurisdiction requiring the owner or custodian to deliver possession of the animal to an animal control officer. An animal control officer may summarily impound a vicious animal which is at large or which is an immediate danger to humans or domesticated animals. If an animal control officer cannot gain control of a vicious animal the officer may summarily destroy the animal. If a vicious animal is impounded without the knowledge of the owner or custodian, notice that the animal has been impounded shall be given to the owner or custodian of the animal, if the same is known, by attaching a notice to a door at the residence thereof or by mailing a notice thereto. A vicious animal impounded by an order of a court acting pursuant to this section shall be destroyed or otherwise disposed of as the court shall direct. A vicious animal impounded without a court order shall be held not less than five (5) days, after which it may be destroyed or otherwise disposed of as the supervising control officer may direct. The owner or custodian of an animal impounded other than by a court order may contest the impounding by filing a notice with the proper court within five (5) days after the impounding.


===== 5.01.150 Possession Of A Vicious Dog =====
The possession of a vicious dog is unlawful unless it is restrained, confined, or muzzled so that it cannot bite or attack any person or animal. Dogs held in violation of this section shall be deemed a public nuisance, and their continued possession or ownership shall be unlawful. The department may impound any such dog and dispose of it in any humane manner after five (5) working days to allow for legal restraining action by the owner. The following are conditions of ownership of any animal which is fierce, dangerous, or vicious: the dog must be kept in a heavy gauge wire dog run which is six (6) feet in height with a secure ceiling and floor; and the dog must be kept on a leash and properly muzzled when out of its kennel.


===== 5.01.160 Allowing Vicious Animals To Go At Large =====
Any owner of a vicious animal, knowing its propensities, who willfully allows it to go at large or who keeps it without ordinary care, and any animal while at large, or while not kept with ordinary care, causes injury to another animal or to any human being who has taken reasonable precaution which the circumstances permitted, is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor unless the animal causes the death of a human being, whereupon the owner is guilty of a class A misdemeanor.


===== 5.01.170 Guard Dogs =====
Guard dogs shall be kept in such a manner so that they cannot come into contact with persons or other animals who are legally upon the premises where a guard dog is maintained. The property shall be posted with a sign clearly visible stating that a guard dog is on the premises.


===== 5.01.180 Judicially Excluded Animals =====
It shall be unlawful to bring any animal into the County which has in any jurisdiction: been judicially determined to be vicious, a nuisance, or a threat to the health or safety of human beings; or been judicially removed from any county or municipality for violations of the laws or ordinances which by their nature are also in violation of this title.


===== 5.01.190 Livestock =====
Except as otherwise provided in Subsection B, the following provisions shall apply in all the unincorporated areas of the County: For purposes of this subsection the term “livestock” includes cattle, sheep, goats, swine, horses, mules, donkeys, poultry, and any other domestic animal or domestic fur bearer raised or kept for profit. It is unlawful for any person owning or having the custody, possession, or control of livestock to allow, either negligently or with specific intent, the animal to run at large. All fencing of property where livestock are kept shall be of sufficient construction to prevent the escape of or injury to the animals being confined within the fencing. The fencing shall be maintained so that no part of such fence, absent extraordinary circumstances, may be broken, damaged, or in any way create the possibility of injury to the confined animal or to allow the escape thereof. Any animal in violation of this section may be impounded. All persons owning or having the custody, possession, or control of livestock shall be strictly liable for all damages caused by any such livestock. In those unincorporated areas of the County shown on the Utah County Open Range Map as “open range” the following provisions shall apply: For purposes of this subsection the term “open range” means those unincorporated areas of the County shown on the Utah County Open Range Map as open range; the term “open range livestock” means cattle, sheep, and horses; and the term “legal fence” means a fence with not less than four (4) horizontal barriers, consisting of wires, boards, poles or other fence material in common use in the neighborhood, with posts set not more than twenty feet (20') apart. The lower barrier shall not be more than twelve inches (12") from the ground and the space between any two (2) barriers shall not be more than twelve inches (12"), and the height of the top barrier must be at least forty-eight inches (48") above the ground. Every post shall be so set as to withstand a horizontal strain of two hundred fifty (250) pounds at a point four feet (4') from the ground, and each barrier shall be capable of withstanding a horizontal strain of two hundred fifty (250) pounds at any point midway between the posts. All gates shall be equally as well constructed as the fence. Within the open range area, no person or entity shall be entitled to damages for trespass of open range livestock on private real property or on real property owned by the United States of America or the State of Utah, unless such property, at the time of the trespass, was enclosed by a legal fence.


===== 5.01.200 Cruelty To Animals =====
A person commits cruelty to animals if that person intentionally or knowingly; fails to provide any animal in that person's charge or custody with adequate food, drink, care, and shelter; abandons an animal in that person's custody; carries or confines any animal in or upon any vehicle in a cruel or inhumane manner, including but not limited to carrying or confining such animal without adequate ventilation or for an unusual length of time. kills, maims, disfigures, tortures, beats with a stick, chain, club, or other object, mutilates, burns, scales, over-drives, overworks, or otherwise cruelly set upon any animal. Each offense shall constitute a separate violation. makes accessible to any animal, with intent to cause harm or death, any substance which has in any manner been treated or prepared with any harmful or poisonous substance. This provision shall not be interpreted so as to prohibit the use of poisonous substances for the control of vermin in furtherance of the public health, when applied in such a manner as to reasonably prohibit access to other animals. causes any animal, not including a dog, to fight with another animal or creature of like kind for amusement or gain; or causes any animal, including a dog, to fight with a different kind of animal or creature for amusement or gain. It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section that the conduct of the actor towards the animal was by a licensed veterinarian using accepted veterinary practice, or directly related to bona fide experimentation for scientific research, provided that if the animal is to be destroyed, the manner employed will not be unnecessarily cruel unless directly necessary to the veterinary purpose or scientific research involved. Violation of this section is a class B misdemeanor.


===== 5.01.210 Dog Fighting =====
It is unlawful for any person to: own, possess, keep, or train a dog with the intent to engage it in an exhibition of fighting with another dog; cause a dog to fight with another dog or cause a dog to injure another dog for amusement or gain; tie, attach, or fasten any live animal to a machine or device propelled by any power, for the purpose of causing the animal to be pursued by a dog; or permit or allow any act which violates any of the above on any premises under the person's charge; or to control, aid or abet any such act. Possession of any breaking stick, treadmill, wheel, hot walker, cat mill, cat walker, jenny, or other paraphernalia together with evidence that the paraphernalia is being used or is intended for use in the unlawful training of a dog to fight with another dog, together with the possession of any such dog, is prima facie evidence of violation of Subsections A2 and A3. A person who violates Subsection A is guilty of a class B misdemeanor. It is unlawful for person to knowingly and intentionally be present as a spectator at any place, made for an exhibition of dog fighting, or to knowingly and intentionally be present at a dog fighting exhibition or any other occurrence of fighting or injury described in this section. A person who violates this section is guilty of a class B misdemeanor. Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to prohibit any of the following: the use of dogs for the management of livestock by the owner, the owner's employees or agents, or any other person in the lawful custody of livestock; the use of dogs for hunting; or the training of dogs or the possession or use of equipment in the training of dogs for any purpose not prohibited by law.


===== 5.01.220 Animal Fighting Exhibitions =====
It is unlawful for a person to knowingly be present as a spectator at any place, building, or tenement where preparations are being made for an exhibition of the fighting of animals, as prohibited by UCC 5.01.200 Subsection A6, or to be present at such exhibition, regardless of whether any entrance fee has been charged. A person who violates this subsection is guilty of a class B misdemeanor.


===== 5.01.230 Authority To Arrest And Take Possession Of Dogs And Property =====
A deputy animal control officer may enter any place, building, or tenement where an exhibition of dog fighting is occurring, or where preparations are being made for such an exhibition, and without a warrant arrest all persons present. Notwithstanding the provisions of UCC 05.01.240, any authorized officer who makes an arrest under Subsection A may lawfully take possession of all dogs, paraphernalia, implements, or other property or things used or employed, or to be employed, in an exhibition of dog fighting prohibited by UCC 05.01.200 Subsection A6 or UCC 05.01.210. The officer, at the time of that taking, shall state the officer's name and provide other identifying information to the person in charge of the dogs or property taken. After taking possession of dogs, paraphernalia, implements, or other property under Subsection B, the officer shall file an affidavit with the judge or magistrate before whom a complaint has been made against any person arrested under this section. That affidavit shall include: the name of the person charged in the complaint; a description of all property taken; the time and place of the taking; the name of the person from whom the property was taken; the name of the person who claims to own the property, if known; a statement that the officer has reason to believe and does believe that the property taken was used or employed, or was to be used or employed, in violation of UCC 5.01.200 Subsection A6 or UCC 5.01.210 and the grounds for such belief. The officer shall deliver the confiscated property to the judge or magistrate who shall, by order place the property in the custody of the officer or any other person designated in the order, and that person shall keep the property until conviction or final discharge of the person against whom the complaint was made. The person so designated shall assume immediate custody of that property, and retain that property until further order of the court. Upon conviction of the person charged, all confiscated property shall be forfeited and destroyed or otherwise disposed of, as the court may order. If the person charged is acquitted or discharged without conviction, the court shall, on demand, order the property to be returned to its owner.


===== 5.01.240 Officers Authority To Take Possession Of Animals - Lien For Care =====
Any law enforcement officer may take possession of any animals being treated cruelly and, after reasonable efforts to notify the owner, may provide shelter and care for them or upon permission of the owner destroy them. Officers caring for animals pursuant to this section have a lien for the reasonable value of the care and/or destruction. Any court upon proof that the owner has been notified of the lien and amount due, at least five (5) days prior, shall order the animal sold at public auction or destroyed. Any law enforcement officer may humanely destroy any animal found suffering past recovery for any useful purpose. Before destroying the animal the officer shall obtain the judgment of a veterinarian, or of two reputable citizens called by the officer to view the animal in the officer's presence, or shall obtain consent to the destruction from the owner of the animal. The owner may be cited and/or charged for impound and sheltering fees.


===== 5.01.250 Number Of Animals =====
No more than seven (7) dogs, six (6) months in age or older or more than four (4) cats, four (4) months of age or older may be harbored or possessed at a single residence or property without purchasing a kennel license. Ownership of more than four (4) cats without said licenses must be approved by the Animal Regulation Coordinator for a legitimate business purpose.


===== 5.01.260 Kennel Regulations =====
Definitions : "Cages" means individual, portable facilities for containing dogs. "Exercise yard" means an area enclosed by a fence of at least six (6) feet in height wherein dogs are allowed to run and exercise. Every portion of an exercise yard fence shall be separate and removed from any property boundary fence. "Fencing": unless otherwise authorized, shall mean a good grade commercial chain link, carried on solid posts set in concrete, suggested minimum is eleven (11) gauge wire, two (2) inch steel posts set on no greater than ten (10) foot spans. "Kennel" means any lot, building structure, enclosure or premises whereupon or wherein eight (8) or more dogs over six (6) months of age are kept or maintained for any purpose, including boarding, breeding, buying, grooming, letting for hire, training for fee, or selling. "Kennel building" means a permanent structure designed, intended, or used exclusively for the housing of dogs. "Kennel run (inside)" means the separated area inside a kennel building used for the interior housing of dogs. "Kennel run (outside)" means an area adjacent to a kennel building and enclosed by a fence at least six (6) feet in height. Requirements : License : Each kennel must have a current valid kennel license and a current valid business license in those areas which require a business license in addition to a kennel license. Such licenses are required to be displayed and readily available for inspection by any authorized person. Records : A kennel record must be kept available for inspection such record to show: The name, current address, and telephone number of the owner of the dog, the date the dog entered the kennel, the reason for it being in the kennel, i.e. for boarding, sale, breeding, grooming, etc., the description of the dog, (age, breed, sex, color, etc.). On any dog over four (4) months of age, a current valid rabies certificate shall be maintained as a part of this record, as long as the dog is maintained in the kennel. Physical Facilities : The basic intent of these regulations is to see that all animals receive proper care, that they are being treated kindly, properly fed, and that their surroundings are being kept in a sanitary condition. Animal Rooms : Cage : Cage length and width shall exceed the animal's length from the base of the tail to the tip of the nose by at least six (6) inches. Cage height shall exceed the animal's height by at least four (4) inches. Small puppies may be caged together using their combined length according to the above formula. Cages shall be so constructed and be of such material as to be maintained in a sanitary condition. Animals shall be removed from and be provided with an exercise yard for their use for such periods as determined by the size, age, and condition of the animal. Diseased animals must be maintained apart from healthy animals in suitable and separate quarters. General : walls and floors shall be of material easily cleaned and kept in a sanitary condition. The room shall be properly screened, insect, and vermin proof. It shall be properly ventilated to prevent drafts and remove odors. Heating and cooling should be provided as required, with sufficient light (preferably natural) to allow observation of animals, and sanitation. Outdoor Facilities : Shall be provided with windbreaks, roofing, and shelter adequate to protect the animals from the weather. They shall be adequately drained and maintained in a sanitary manner. Adequate and sanitary means of disposing of droppings shall be provided. All kennel runs shall be fenced (chain link or welded wire) such fence to be separate and apart from property boundary fence. Kennel runs shall have a minimum free and clear area of ten (10) square feet per dog. Indoor shelter, except where animals are caged, shall have a minimum of six (6) square feet per dog. When the minimum area is provided it should be supplemented with exercise yards for dogs which are maintained for extended periods. Kennels shall not be left unattended for a period in excess of twenty-four (24) hours. All animals shall be supplied with sufficient good and wholesome food and fresh water as the feeding habits of such animals require. All areas of kennel runs, yards, food storage, and auxiliary buildings shall be subject to inspection by authorized persons. An emergency name, address, and phone number must be posted in a conspicuous place at the front of the property for use by authorized persons.


===== 5.01.270 General Regulations Relating To Animals =====
Every person within the County who owns any animal or who owns, conducts, manages, or operates any animal establishment for which a license is required shall ensure the following: Structural Strength : Housing facilities for animals shall be structurally sound and shall be maintained in good repair, to protect the animals from injury, to contain the animals, and to restrict the entrance of other animals. All animals shall be supplied with sufficient good and wholesome food and fresh water as often as the feeding habits of the respective animals require. All animals and all animal buildings or enclosures shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition. All animals shall be so maintained so as to eliminate excessive odor and noise. No animal shall be without attention more than twenty-four (24) consecutive hours. Whenever an animal is left unattended at a commercial animal facility the telephone number of the department of animal control or the name, address and telephone number of the responsible person shall be posted in a conspicuous place at the front of the property. However, this provision shall not apply to livestock. Livestock shall be attended at reasonable intervals. Animals shall be treated humanely, and no conditions shall be maintained or permitted that is or could be injurious to the animal. Animal buildings and enclosures shall be so constructed and maintained as to prevent escape of the animal. All reasonable precautions shall be taken to protect the public from the animal and the animal from the public. Every building or enclosure wherein animals are maintained shall be constructed of a material easily cleaned and shall be kept in a sanitary condition. The building shall be properly ventilated to prevent drafts and to remove odors. Heating, cooling, and shelter shall be provided as required according to the physical need of the animal, with sufficient light to allow observation of animals and sanitation. Medical treatment shall be provided as necessary in order to maintain the health of the animals. All animal rooms, cages, kennels, and runs shall be of sufficient size to provide adequate and proper accommodations for the animals kept therein. Owners shall not allow animals which are natural enemies, temperamentally unsuited, or otherwise incompatible, to be quartered together or so near each other as to cause injury, fear, or torment. All wild animals permitted pursuant to this section shall be maintained in buildings, enclosed yards, or cages as specified by the coordinator and such shall be kept at distances from adjacent buildings as specified in the Utah County Zoning Ordinance and the Utah County Health ordinances. Representatives of the County Sheriff's Department or other duly designated representatives of the County may enter any premises where animals are maintained for investigation or inspection as to whether or not any portion of such premises, building, structure, enclosure, pen, or cage is being used, kept, or maintained in violation of this or any other County ordinance. This section does not permit any person to enter a private dwelling except where necessary to rescue an animal.


===== 5.01.280 Loss Of Privilege To Maintain Dog In County =====
If the owner or custodian of any dog is convicted of any violation of this title on three (3) or more different occasions during any twelve (12) month period the County may issue an order denying the right of the owner or custodian to maintain a dog in the County for a period of two (2) years. Prior to final denial of such privilege written notice shall be sent to the owner's or custodian's last known address informing the owner or custodian of the County's intent to deny their privilege of maintaining a dog in the County.


===== 5.01.290 Injuries And Communicable Diseases =====
No person shall knowingly harbor or keep any dog or other animal with a serious injury or afflicted with mange, ringworm, distemper or any other contagious disease, unless such a dog or other animal is, in the opinion of the department, being given adequate treatment for such disease. The department may take immediate possession of any such animal not being so treated or which is not responding to such treatment, and immediately dispose of the animal unless the owner shall forthwith place such animal under the control and treatment of a licensed veterinarian.


===== 5.01.300 Fees, Charges, Etc. =====
The fees and charges which may be imposed under the provisions of this title shall be as determined and established by resolution by the County Commission from time to time and on file in the office of the coordinator of animal regulation.


===== 5.02 Impoundment =====
5.02.010 Authorization And Record Keeping 5.02.020 Animals To Be Impounded 5.02.030 Capture By Individuals 5.02.040 Information Upon Relinquishment 5.02.050 Notice To Owner 5.02.060 Redemption By Owner 5.02.070 Holding Period 5.02.080 Disposal Of Unredeemed Animals 5.02.090 Destruction Of Animals 5.02.100 Redemption Of Unvaccinated Animal 5.02.110 Vaccination


===== 5.02.010 Authorization And Record Keeping =====
The department, peace officers, and persons employed for animal regulation purposes by the County shall attempt to capture any animal found at large in violation of this title and may destroy an animal at large if, in their judgment, such action is required for public health and safety. A record of each animal held shall be maintained. The record shall include the: date of impound; date of disposition; and method of disposition, which may be: placement in an adoptive home or other transfer of the animal, which shall be in compliance with Utah Code Chapter 11-46 Part 2, Animal Shelter Pet Sterilization Act; return to its owner; placement in a community cat program as defined in Utah Code Chapter 11-46-302; or euthanasia.


===== 5.02.020 Animals To Be Impounded =====
The following animals may be taken into custody by an animal regulation deputy and impounded without the filing of a complaint: Any vicious animal not properly confined as required by this title. Any animal running at large. Any unlicensed animal which is required by this title to be licensed. Any animal not wearing a tag shall be presumed to be unlicensed for purposes of this section, except those dogs specifically exempted. Sick or injured animals whose owner cannot be located. Any abandoned animal. Animals which are not wearing a rabies vaccination tag in accordance with the requirements of this title. Any animal to be held for quarantine. Any animal being kept or maintained contrary to the provisions of this title.


===== 5.02.030 Capture By Individuals =====
Any person who finds an animal at large may take it into that person's possession and must within twenty-four (24) hours thereafter notify the department and surrender the animal to the department upon demand. No such action shall result in a charge against the County. The finder of an animal at large shall use reasonable care to preserve it from injury; however, the finder shall not be held liable if the animal dies, escapes or injures itself while the finder is carrying out the provisions of this section except as occasioned by the finder's own negligence.


===== 5.02.040 Information Upon Relinquishment =====
Any person who relinquishes an animal to the department shall give that person's name, address, and, if the person is not the owner, the location where the animal was found.


===== 5.02.050 Notice To Owner =====
Upon receipt of a lost or stray animal bearing a current year's license tag, the department shall immediately telephone or mail to the owner of record at the address indicated on the license form, a notice of the location of the animal. Compliance with notice requirements of this section shall be deemed as met if the department shall have mailed the notice to the owner of record at the address of record, postage prepaid.


===== 5.02.060 Redemption By Owner =====
The owner of an impounded animal may claim it prior to its legal disposition by providing proof of ownership, complying with requirements of local animal control ordinances including sterilization requirements, and paying the applicable redemption fees for impoundment, board, medical care, vaccination, and/or other costs. Upon the second impound within a 12-month period and upon any subsequent impound of an animal that is claimed by its owner, an animal shelter may release the impounded animal to its owner only upon payment of all impound fees required by the shelter and: receipt of proof the animal has been sterilized; or a sterilization deposit. The sterilization deposit shall be refunded to the owner only if the owner provides proof of sterilization to the animal shelter within thirty (30) days of release of the animal to the owner. The sterilization deposit shall follow the requirements of section 11-46-204, et. seq. of the Utah State Code.


===== 5.02.070 Holding Period =====
The department shall hold any unidentified or unclaimed stray animal in safe and humane custody for a minimum of five (5) business days after the time of impound and prior to making and final disposition of the animal.


===== 5.02.080 Disposal Of Unredeemed Animals =====
The department may dispose of humanely or may transfer to a new owner upon payment of the applicable fee, any impounded animal not claimed by its owner or custodian within the prescribed holding time. Animals relinquished by their owners may be humanely destroyed without regard to the prescribed holding time in order to alleviate suffering or to protect other impounded animals from exposure to a contagious disease. An animal shelter may not transfer an animal that has not been sterilized. Notwithstanding Paragraph (B), an animal shelter may transfer an animal for adoption that has not been sterilized only if the animal shelter: establishes a written agreement, executed by the recipient, stating the animal is not sterilized and the recipient agrees in writing to be responsible for ensuring the animal is sterilized: within thirty (30) days after the agreement is signed, if the animal is six (6) months of age or older; or if the animal is younger than six (6) months of age, within thirty (30) days after the animal becomes six (6) months of age; and receives from the recipient a sterilization deposit as provided under Utah Code § 11-46-204, the terms of which are part of the written agreement executed by the recipient in accordance with this section. The shelter may waive the sterilization deposit and release and unsterilized animal to a non-profit organization that qualifies as being tax exempt under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code and provides proof of sterilization within thirty (30) days.


===== 5.02.090 Destruction Of Animals =====
When, in the judgment of the Animal Regulation Coordinator, it is determined that an impounded animal should be destroyed for humane reasons, disease control or to protect the public or animal regulation personnel from imminent danger to persons or property, such animal may be destroyed without regard to any time limitations otherwise established herein, and without court order.


===== 5.02.100 Redemption Of Unvaccinated Animal =====
All unvaccinated animals at the County animal shelter may be vaccinated before being released. The person taking custody of the animal shall pay for the cost of the vaccination before the animal is released. If a veterinarian is not available then the owner of any impounded animal which has not been vaccinated as required by this title upon satisfactory proof of ownership may redeem the animal by making a deposit of ten dollars ($10.00) with the coordinator and be allowed ten days to get such animal vaccinated. If the owner fails to procure vaccination certificate within such ten (10) days, the deposit shall be forfeited and the animal shall be impounded. Upon presentation within such period of time of a certificate of vaccination issued under this title, the deposit shall be refunded.


===== 5.02.110 Vaccination =====
Any animal impounded at an animal shelter may be vaccinated for disease control.


===== 5.03 Licensing And Registration =====
5.03.010 Licenses Generally 5.03.020 Exceptions 5.03.030 Vaccination - Dogs 5.03.040 Vaccination - Cats 5.03.050 Voluntary Registration Of Cats


===== 5.03.010 Licenses Generally =====
Required : All dog owners, except tourists or visitors who stay less than one month in an area coming within the jurisdiction of this title shall apply for and obtain a separate dog license for each dog they own, possess, keep, or harbor, after it is four (4) months old. Each license shall be issued by the County, by duly authorized veterinarians, or by municipalities under contract with the County. All dog owners must possess such license at the time the dog is four (4) months old or one month after obtaining or bringing into an area coming within the jurisdiction of this title any dog over four (4) months of age. Dog owners shall renew the dog license before it becomes delinquent for as long as they own, possess, keep or harbor, or otherwise have custody of the dog. If renewal is not required, dog owners shall within two (2) months after the expiration date advise the department of the reason therefor. Licenses not purchased or renewed within fifteen (15) days after expiration, of the date on which they become due, shall be considered delinquent and a late fee as determined by the Board of County Commissioners shall be added to the cost of the new license. Presumption That License Required : Any dog is legally impounded according to the provisions of this title shall be presumed to be a dog which, prior to impounding, required a license, regardless of such dog's actual age or owner's place of residence. Issuance : Upon presentation by the dog owner of a properly completed license application form including proof that the rabies vaccination will be valid throughout the license period, the proper license fee, and if applicable, a late or delinquent fee, the County shall issue a validated dog license. The dog owner shall retain the dog license for inspection by any person charged with the enforcement of this title. Validity; Rabies Vaccination Prerequisite to Issuance : Licenses shall be valid from the date issued until the expiration date. No dog shall be licensed without proof of approved rabies vaccination. No license may expire later than the expiration date of the rabies vaccination. An owner may purchase a license for twenty-four (24) months depending upon the date and kind of vaccine used upon payment of the fee established by the Board of County Commissioners. In the event the owner demonstrates proof of an unexpired rabies vaccination, the license fee shall be appropriately prorated. Lost or Damaged Tags; Tags to be Worn; Exception : Whenever a license tag is lost or damaged, the owner shall apply for and secure a replacement from the County upon payment of the prescribed fee. Each dog required to be licensed shall wear at all times the current license tag assigned to that dog; except: when the dog is participating in any dog exhibition, field trial, or competition; or when the dog is confined in a licensed kennel or veterinary hospital, in which case the license tag number shall be recorded and placed nearby so that it is readily identifiable with the dog with which it belongs; or if not licensed, that fact shall be clearly indicated on the facility's records. A license tag shall not be removed from any dog without the consent of the owner thereof. Duty of Person Issuing License : Each duly authorized person issuing a dog license for any dog shall complete the license in triplicate. The person issuing the license shall keep one copy and shall give one copy to the owner of the licensed dog, which the owner shall retain in the owner's possession. The person issuing the license shall file the other copy with the County on a monthly basis. Transfer License : Owners of dogs having a current license issued by another dog licensing agency may upon proof of license issued by said agency be issued a County dog license upon payment of the applicable transfer fee. The rabies vaccination for any such dog must be valid for the duration of the license issued. Whenever the ownership of a licensed dog changes, the new owner shall apply for and obtain a transfer license and pay the applicable fee. The address of the owner is presumed to be the address where the dog is kept. Any change of address must be reported to the County within one month following such change. Dog owners or the parent or guardian of minor children who sell or otherwise transfer the ownership or custody of a dog shall within one month thereafter inform the department of the name, address and telephone number of the new owner and the name and description of the dog. If the ownership or custody of a vicious dog is transferred, the owner or the custody of a vicious dog is transferred, the owner or the parent or guardian of minor children shall, in addition, advise the new owner in writing of the details of the dog's record and provide the department with a copy thereof containing an acknowledgment by the new owner of his receipt of the original.


===== 5.03.020 Exceptions =====
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following: Transient, Show Dogs : Dogs whose owners are nonresidents temporarily within the County for thirty (30) days or less, or dogs brought into the County for purpose of participating in any dog show. Dog Maintained in a Licensed Kennel : Any dog which has not reached the age of four (4) months or any dog kept or maintained exclusively in a licensed kennel shall not be registered and no fee is required. Seeing Eye, Hearing and Law Enforcement Dogs : Any dog which has been duly or properly trained to assist the blind, deaf, or law enforcement personnel and is currently acting in that capacity. Dogs Maintained by Impecunious Person : If any person shall furnish evidence satisfactory to the department that such person, by reason of unavoidable poverty, merits exemption from the payment of any fees or charges by this chapter, the dog shall be registered but the department shall waive the payment of any such fees or charges. Police Service Dogs .


===== 5.03.030 Vaccination - Dogs =====
Vaccination Required : Dog owners shall obtain a rabies vaccination for each dog they own, keep, harbor, or have custody of, within one month after it becomes four (4) months of age, or within one month after obtaining any dog over four (4) months of age. It shall be unlawful, and an infraction, for any person or persons to own, keep, harbor, or possess or to have in his or her care, charge, or custody, any dog four (4) months of age or over unless such dog has a current and valid rabies vaccination administered by any duly qualified and licensed veterinarian, with a rabies vaccine approved by the State Department of Health for use in dogs. Such vaccination shall be repeated at intervals specified by the State Department of Health in order to maintain adequate immunity. Exemption From Rabies Vaccination During Illness : Notwithstanding any other provisions of this title, a dog need not be vaccinated for rabies during an illness if a licensed veterinarian has examined the dog and certified in writing that such vaccination should be postponed because of a specified illness. Old age, debility and pregnancy are not considered contraindications to rabies vaccination. Exemption certificates are subject to approval by the department and shall be valid only for the duration of the illness. Exemption from vaccination does not exempt a dog from the licensing requirement.


===== 5.03.040 Vaccination - Cats =====
Cat owners shall obtain a rabies vaccination for each cat they own, keep, harbor, or have custody of, within one month after it becomes four (4) months of age, or within one month after obtaining any cat over four (4) months of age. It shall be unlawful, and an infraction, for any person or persons to own, keep, harbor, or possess or to have in his or her care, charge, or custody, any cat four (4) months of age or over unless such cat has a current and valid rabies vaccination administered by any duly qualified and licensed veterinarian, with a rabies vaccine approved by the State Department of Health for use in cats. Such vaccination shall be repeated at intervals specified by the State Department of Health in order to maintain adequate immunity.


===== 5.03.050 Voluntary Registration Of Cats =====
The owner of any cat may, upon submission of proof of rabies vaccination, certified to by a licensed veterinarian, and upon payment of the fee established by resolution of the Board of County Commissioners, be issued a license certificate and tag. No person shall remove a registration tag from a cat without the consent of the owner thereof. Licensing shall be valid for the period of rabies vaccination. The obtaining of such a license shall be optional on the part of the owner.


===== 5.04 Rabies Control =====
5.04.010 Report Of Bites 5.04.020 Report Of Suspected Rabid Animals 5.04.030 Investigation And Quarantine For Biting Or Suspected Rabid Animals 5.04.040 Examination Of Head 5.04.050 Domesticated Animals 5.04.060 Release 5.04.070 Animals Possibly Exposed To Rabies 5.040.080 Possession Of Animal In Violation Of Chapter A Misdemeanor


===== 5.04.010 Report Of Bites =====
All persons bitten and the parents or guardians of minor children bitten by a dog, cat, skunk, fox, bat, coyote, bobcat, or other animal known to constitute a serious threat of rabies shall notify the department or County Health Department immediately thereafter. Physicians treating such bites and other persons having the knowledge of such bites shall also be required to make such notification.


===== 5.04.020 Report Of Suspected Rabid Animals =====
Any person who observes or has knowledge of an animal which shows symptoms of rabies or which acts in a manner which would lead to a reasonable suspicion that it may have rabies shall notify the department or County Health Department and comply with appropriate laws and regulations regarding suspected cases of rabies as directed by the department or County Health Department.


===== 5.04.030 Investigation And Quarantine For Biting Or Suspected Rabid Animals =====
Whenever rabies or any other animal disease dangerous to the health of human beings is reported, the County Health Department shall investigate to determine whether such disease exists, and the probable area of the state in which man or beast is thereby endangered. If the County Health Department finds that such disease exists, a quarantine may be declared against all animals designated in the quarantine order and within the area specified in the order. If the quarantine is for the purpose of preventing the spread of rabies or hydrophobia, the order shall contain a warning to the owners of dogs within the quarantined area to confine or muzzle all dogs to prevent biting. Any dog not muzzled found running at large in a quarantined area or any dog known to have been removed from or escaped from such area, may be killed by any person without liability therefor. Upon the reasonable order of the County Health Department or public health officer, a biting or suspected rabid animal shall be strictly confined upon the private premises of the owners, under restraint by leash, closed cage or paddock of all animals specified by the order. Following the order of quarantine, the County Health Department shall make a thorough investigation as to the extent of the disease, the probable number of persons and beasts exposed, and the area involved. During the period and quarantine order is in force, all peace officers may kill or capture and hold for further action by the department all animals in a quarantined area not held in restraint on private premises.


===== 5.04.040 Examination Of Head =====
Any biting or suspected rabid animal or bat may be humanely euthanized immediately by the department or the health department, and such animal's undamaged and properly packaged and properly refrigerated head shall be delivered promptly to an approved medical facility having the capability of performing the fluorescent antibody test to demonstrate the presence of rabies.


===== 5.04.050 Domesticated Animals =====
The provisions of UCC 5.04.040 notwithstanding, if the biting or suspected rabid animal is of the domesticated variety that is owned or obviously could have an owner, said animal shall be confined for a period of ten (10) days to allow time for an attempt to locate an owner unless the County veterinarian or other licensed veterinarian shall reasonably deem it necessary to sacrifice the animal for the purpose of laboratory examination.


===== 5.04.060 Release =====
Ten (10) days after the day of infliction of a bite by an animal, said animal may be released to its owner or sold by the department after a licensed veterinarian has examined that animal and in the veterinarian's opinion found it not to have had rabies in a transmittable state on the day of infliction of said bite. Non-immunized animals shall be vaccinated for rabies before release to owner.


===== 5.04.070 Animals Possibly Exposed To Rabies =====
Any animal of a species subject to rabies which has been bitten by a known rabid animal or bat, or which has been in intimate contact with such an animal, shall be isolated, at the owner's expense if owned, in strict confinement in a place and manner approved by the department or public health officer and observed by a licensed veterinarian for a period of six (6) months or destroyed. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the following alternative is permitted in case of dogs and cats. If the dog or cat has been vaccinated against rabies at least thirty (30) days prior to the suspected exposure with a type of vaccine produced under U.S.D.A. license and within the time period approved by the State veterinarian, the dog or cat may be revaccinated in a manner prescribed by the department or the health department and isolated in strict confinement in a place and manner approved by the department or public health officer and observed by a licensed veterinarian for a period of thirty (30) days.


===== 5.040.080 Possession Of Animal In Violation Of Chapter A Misdemeanor =====
Any person in possession of any animal being held in violation of this chapter is guilty of a class C misdemeanor. 6 HEALTH / SAFETY 6.01 Health Department 6.02 Right Of Entry/Unlawful Acts - Criminal And Civil Liability 6.03 Food Service 6.04 Vehicle Emission Inspection/Maintenance 6.05 Utah County Drinking Water Source Protection Provisions 6.06 Utah State Fire Code 6.07 Fire Safety Permit 6.08 Open Fires 6.09 Fireworks Act 6.10 General Fire Protection Standards 6.11 Wildland/Urban Interface Areas 6.12 Hazardous Materials


===== 6.01 Health Department =====
6.01.010 Creation 6.01.020 Organization 6.01.030 Board Of Health 6.01.040 Local Health Officer 6.01.050 Powers And Duties Of The Utah County Health Department 6.01.060 Abatement Of Nuisances 6.01.070 Jurisdiction 6.01.080 Rules And Regulations 6.01.090 Financing


===== 6.01.010 Creation =====
There is hereby created a County Health Department in Utah County as provided by Utah Code 26A, which shall be known as the Utah County Health Department.


===== 6.01.020 Organization =====
The Utah County Health Department shall consist of a Board of Health, a local health officer and departmental personnel.


===== 6.01.030 Board Of Health =====
The Board of Health members shall be appointed by the County Commission. The Board of Health shall determine the general public health policies to be followed in the administration of the Utah County Health Department and may adopt and enforce public health rules, regulations, and standards necessary to implement the board’s public health policies. The Board of Health shall appoint the local health officer subject to ratification by the County Commission. The local health officer shall be the executive officer for the Board of Health. The local health officer may be removed by the Board of Health for cause after due hearing. The local health officer, or designee, shall serve as secretary to the Board of Health. The Board of Health shall be nonpartisan whose membership shall meet all the requirements as set forth in Utah Code 26A. The number of board members shall be set by board bylaws, but shall be a minimum of three members. Board member terms shall be for three years. A majority of the members may not: be primarily engaged in providing health care to individuals or in the administration of facilities or institutions in which healthcare is provided; hold a fiduciary position or have a fiduciary interest in any entity involved in the provision of health care; receive either directly or through a spouse more than one-tenth (1/10) of the member's gross income from any entity or activity relating to health care; and be members of one type of business or profession. Board members may be removed by the County Commission for cause prior to the expiration of the member's term. Any board member removed pursuant to this section may request and receive a hearing before the County Commission prior to the effective date of the removal. All members of the Board of Health shall reside within the boundaries of the area served by the Utah County Health Department. The Board of Health may adopt and amend bylaws for the transaction of its business. A majority of the board members constitute a quorum. Standards and regulations may be adopted by the Board of Health as provided in Utah Code 26A, and administrative and judicial review of the Board of Health's actions is available as provided in Utah Code 26A.


===== 6.01.040 Local Health Officer =====
The local health officer shall be the administrative and executive officer of the Utah County Health Department and shall devote full time to the duties of the office and is responsible to the Board of Health. The local health officer shall meet the qualifications for that office as prescribed by the Utah Code Title 26A and the County personnel system. The local health officer shall be the administrative and executive officer for the Board of Health. The local health officer may be removed by the Board of Health or the County Commission for cause after due hearing as provided in Utah Code 26A. The local health officer shall appoint other personnel by the County merit system of personnel administration, provided they have the qualifications of training and experience for their positions equivalent to those approved for comparable positions by the Utah State Department of Health and Environmental Quality. Utah County Health Department staff may include: Public health nurses. Environmental health scientists. Health educators. Public health nutritionists. Mosquito Abatement Director. Necessary administrative staff, clerical assistants and such other personnel as may be necessary for the proper and efficient functioning of the Utah County Health Department.


===== 6.01.050 Powers And Duties Of The Utah County Health Department =====
The Utah County Health Department shall have all powers and duties enumerated in Utah Code §26A-1-114, Local Health Department Act.


===== 6.01.060 Abatement Of Nuisances =====
The Utah County Health Department shall cause every nuisance dangerous to public health and human life, within its jurisdiction, to be abated. When complaint of such nuisance is made to it, the Utah County Health Department shall forthwith cause the matter to be investigated and shall determine whether or not the alleged nuisance is detrimental to the public health or the cause of any disease or mortality. Whenever the Utah County Health Department shall determine that a nuisance detrimental to health exists, it shall in writing, notify the owner or occupant of the premises where said nuisance may be found and shall order the abatement or removal of such nuisance. If such nuisance is not abated or removed pursuant to such order, the Utah County Health Department shall request pursuant to Utah Code Title 26A, as amended, that the County Attorney, or a city attorney as appropriate, bring an action for the abatement of such nuisance.


===== 6.01.070 Jurisdiction =====
The Utah County Health Department shall have jurisdiction in all unincorporated and incorporated areas of the County and shall enforce state health laws, Utah Department of Health, Utah Department of Environmental Quality, and Utah County Health Department rules, regulations, and standards within the County.


===== 6.01.080 Rules And Regulations =====
It shall be the duty of the Utah County Health Department to place a certified copy of its rules and regulations, pertaining to the health and sanitation of the County and/or its incorporated cities on file with the County Clerk, or on the Utah County Health Department website.


===== 6.01.090 Financing =====
The cost of establishing and maintaining the Utah County Health Department shall be financed as provided in Utah Code § 26A-1-117.


===== 6.02 Right Of Entry/Unlawful Acts - Criminal And Civil Liability =====
6.02.010 Right Of Entry To Regulated Premises By Representatives For Inspection 6.02.020 Unlawful Acts - Criminal And Civil Liability


===== 6.02.010 Right Of Entry To Regulated Premises By Representatives For Inspection =====
Upon presenting proper identification, authorized representatives of the Utah County Health Department may enter upon the premises of properties regulated by the Utah County Health Department to perform routine inspections to insure compliance with rules, standards, regulations, and ordinances as adopted by the Utah Departments of Health and Environmental Quality, the Board of Health, the County Commission, all municipal governing bodies in the County, or the Division of Occupational and Professional Licensing under Utah Code Chapter 15A-1, Part 2, entitled "State Construction Code Administration Act." Utah Code § 58-56-9 does not apply to health inspectors acting under this section. This section does not authorize local health departments to inspect private dwellings.


===== 6.02.020 Unlawful Acts - Criminal And Civil Liability =====
It is unlawful for any person, association, or corporation, and the officers of the association or corporation to: violate state laws or any lawful notice, order, standard, rule, or regulation issued under state laws or local ordinances regarding public health or sanitation; violate, disobey, or disregard any notice or order issued by the Utah County Health Department pursuant to any state or federal law, federal regulation, local ordinance, rule, standard, or regulation relating to public health or sanitation; fail to make or file reports required by law relating to the existence of disease or other facts and statistics relating to the public health; willfully and falsely make or alter any certificate or certified copy issued under public health laws; fail to remove or abate from private property under the control of the person, association, or corporation at their own expense, within a reasonable time not to exceed thirty (30) days after issuance of an order to remove or abate, any nuisance, source of filth, cause of sickness, dead animal, health hazard, or sanitation violation within the boundaries of the local health department whether the person, association, or corporation is the owner, tenant, or occupant of the private property; or pay, give, present, or otherwise convey to the local health officer or employee of a Utah County Health Department or any member of a Board of Health any gift, remuneration, or other consideration, directly or indirectly, which the officer or employee is prohibited from receiving by state law. Removal or abatement under Subsection A5 shall be ordered by the Utah County Health Department and accomplished within a reasonable time determined by the Utah County Health Department, but not exceeding thirty (30) days after issuance of an order to remove or abate. It is unlawful for any local health officer or employee of any local health department or member of any local board of health to accept any gift, remuneration, or other consideration, directly or indirectly, for the performance of the duties imposed upon the officer, employee, or member by or on behalf of the health department or by this chapter. It is unlawful for any local health officer or employee of a local health department, during the hours of the officer's or employee's regular employment by the local health department, to perform any work, labor, or services other than duties assigned to the officer or employee by or on behalf of the local health department. Any person, association, corporation, or the officers of the association or corporation who violates any provision of this section is: on the first violation guilty of a class B misdemeanor; and on a subsequent similar violation within two (2) years, guilty of a class A misdemeanor. In addition any person, association, corporation, or the officers of the association or corporation, are liable for any expense incurred in removing or abating any nuisance, source of filth, cause of sickness, dead animal, health hazard, or sanitation violation. Conviction under this section or any other public health law does not relieve the person convicted from civil liability for any act that was also a violation of the public health laws. Each day of violation of this section is a separate violation.


===== 6.03 Food Service =====
6.03.010 Food Inspection 6.03.020 Enforcement 6.03.030 Examination, Condemnation Of Food, Drink


===== 6.03.010 Food Inspection =====
The local health officer or an authorized employee may inspect meat and food products manufactured, produced, stored, kept, sold or offered for sale within the County. Such products suspected of being impure, unhealthful, adulterated or counterfeit may be sampled, embargoed, and/or destroyed.


===== 6.03.020 Enforcement =====
The local health officer shall enforce proper sanitary regulations in the management and surroundings involving the production, manufacture, storage, keeping and sale of any article of food or drink prepared for human consumption. For the purpose of effectuating this chapter, the local health officer or an authorized employee, shall have the following powers: Right of access, ingress and egress to and from all places of business, factories, farm buildings, carriages, trucks, trailers and cars used in the manufacture, transportation or sale of any article of food or drink and also into restaurants, dining halls, cafes, hotels and all rooms thereof, and all other places where food is prepared, stored or served to patrons.


===== 6.03.030 Examination, Condemnation Of Food, Drink =====
Samples of drink, meat or meat food products, rabbits, poultry, fish or seafood or other food may be taken and examined as often as deemed necessary for the detection of unwholesomeness or adulteration. The local health officer or an authorized employee may condemn and forbid the sale, or cause to be removed or destroyed, any food product or drink which is deemed by the local health office or an authorized employee to be unwholesome or adulterated.


===== 6.04 Vehicle Emission Inspection/Maintenance =====
6.04.010 Adoption Of Rules And Regulations 6.04.020 Penalties


===== 6.04.010 Adoption Of Rules And Regulations =====
Pursuant to Utah Code § 41-6a-1642, the Utah County Vehicle Emission Inspection/ Maintenance Program, approved as Ordinance No, 2018-24, is hereby adopted in book form and by this reference made a part of this title to the same extent and effect as though the Ordinance was copied herein in full.


===== 6.04.020 Penalties =====
Any violation of this chapter shall be punished in accordance with the Ordinance.


===== 6.05 Utah County Drinking Water Source Protection Provisions =====
6.05.010 Short Title And Purpose 6.05.020 Definitions 6.05.030 Establishment Of Drinking Water Source Protection Zones 6.05.040 Identification Of Public Water Systems And Drinking Water Source Protection Zones 6.05.050 Allowed Uses 6.05.060 Prohibited Uses 6.05.070 Drinking Water Source Protection Requirements 6.05.080 Alleged Overly Protective Zones 6.05.090 Administration


===== 6.05.010 Short Title And Purpose =====
This chapter shall be known as the “Utah County Drinking Water Source Protection Ordinance.”
 The purpose of this chapter is to ensure the provision of a safe and sanitary drinking water supply to the residents of the County, by the establishment of drinking water source protection zones surrounding the wells and springs used by public water systems in the County and by the designation and regulation of property uses and conditions that may be maintained within such zones. Included under this chapter are all source protection zones or portions thereof falling within the County, including incorporated and unincorporated areas, unless superseded by a municipal ordinance in accordance with state law.


===== 6.05.020 Definitions =====
When used in this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the following meanings: “Allowed Use” means a use, activity or practice allowed by this chapter which does not create a risk of pollution or contamination in the specified protection zone of such significance so as to require the implementation of regulatory requirements, best management practices or engineered controls.
 “Alternative onsite wastewater system” means an onsite wastewater system that is not a conventional onsite wastewater system as defined in Utah Administrative Code R317-4, and includes at-grade systems, mound systems, packed bed media systems, and sand lined trench systems.
 “Best management practices” means a practice or combination of practices determined to be the most effective practicable means of conducting a land use activity to minimize the potential for becoming a pollution source (including technological, economic, and institutional considerations).
 "Collection area" means the area surrounding a ground-water source which is underlain by collection pipes, tile, tunnels, infiltration boxes, or other ground-water collection devices.
 “Contaminant” means any harmful physical, chemical, biological or radiological substance or matter in water, including, for purposes of this chapter, nitrates.
 “Controlled” means that a physical, regulatory, negligible quantity, or best management/practice control, as defined in Utah Administrative Code R309-600, exists to prevent the discharge of contaminated or hazardous substances from a pollution source or potential contamination source. If no such control exists, the pollution source or potential contamination source is ipso facto uncontrolled.
 “Conventional onsite wastewater system” means an onsite wastewater system typically consisting of a building sewer, a septic tank, and an absorption system utilizing absorption trenches, absorption beds, deep wall trenches, or seepage pits.
 “Design standard” means established state or national standards for the design, construction, placement, or maintenance from a potential contamination source to prevent discharges to the ground water. An example of a design standard is “Secondary Containment.”
 “Division of Drinking Water” means the Utah Department of Environmental Quality, Division of Drinking Water.
 “Drinking water source protection zone” means the specified surface and subsurface area surrounding a ground-water source of drinking water supplying a Public Water Supply, through which contaminants are reasonably likely to move toward and reach such ground-water source. “Groundwater source” means any well, spring, tunnel, adit, or other underground opening from or through which groundwater flows or is pumped from subsurface water-bearing formations.
 “Hazardous waste” means a waste with properties that make it dangerous or potentially harmful to human health or the environment.
 “Onsite wastewater system” means an underground wastewater dispersal system that is designed for a capacity of five thousand (5,000) gallons per day or less, and is not designed to serve multiple dwelling units that are owned by separate owners except condominiums. It usually consists of a building sewer, a septic tank and an absorption system.
 “Pollution source” means a point source discharge of contaminants to ground water or potential discharges of the liquid forms of “extremely hazardous substances” which are stored in containers in excess of “applicable threshold planning quantities” as specified in SARA Title III. Examples of possible pollution sources include, but are not limited to: storage facilities that store the liquid forms of extremely hazardous substances, septic tanks, drain fields, Class V underground injection wells, landfills, open dumps, land filling of sludge and septage, manure piles, salt piles, pit privies, and animal feeding operations with more than ten animal units. The following definitions clarify the definition of “pollution source”:
 “Animal feeding operation” means a lot or facility where the following conditions are met: animals have been or will be stabled or confined and fed or maintained for a total of forty-five (45) days or more in any twelve (12) month period, and crops, vegetation forage growth, or post-harvest residues are not sustained in the normal growing season over any portion of the lot or facility. Two or more animal feeding operations under common ownership are considered to be a single feeding operation if they adjoin each other, if they use a common area, or if they use a common system for the disposal of wastes.
 “Animal unit” means a unit of measurement for any animal feeding operation calculated by adding the following numbers: the number of slaughter and feeder cattle multiplied by 1.0, plus the number of mature dairy cattle multiplied by 1.4, plus the number of swine weighing over fifty-five (55) pounds multiplied by 0.4, plus the number of sheep multiplied by 0.1, plus the number of horses multiplied by 2.0.
 "Extremely hazardous substances” means those substances that are identified in the Sec. 302(EHS) column of the "TITLE III LIST OF LISTS -Consolidated List of Chemicals Subject to Reporting Under SARA Title III," (EPA 560/4-91-011).
 “Potential contamination source” means any facility, use or site that employs an activity or procedure which may potentially contaminate ground water, whether it currently does or not. A pollution source is also a potential contamination source.
 “Prohibited use” means a use, activity or practice described in UCC 6.05.060. A prohibited use is not permitted.
 “Public water system” means a system, either publicly or privately owned, providing water for human consumption and other domestic uses, which has at least fifteen (15) service connections, or serves an average of at least twenty-five (25) individuals daily at least sixty (60) days out of the year. Such term includes collection, treatment, storage and distribution facilities under control of the operator and used primarily in connection with the system. Additionally, the term includes collection, pretreatment or storage facilities used primarily in connection with the system but not under such control. “Recharge area” means an area in which water reaches the zone of saturation by surface infiltration.
 “SARA Title III” means the Superfund Amendment and Reauthorization Act Article found in 40 CFR 300-302, pertaining to emergency response and right-to-know.
 “Secondary Containment” means a type of system or design standard that is used to provide release detection and prevention, such as trays under containers, floor curbing or other systems designed to hold materials or liquids that may discharge from containers holding a potential contaminant. Examples include a double-walled tank, a double-walled integral piping system, or a single-walled tank or integral piping system that is protected by an enclosed concrete vault, liner, or an impervious containment area.
 “Septic tank/drain-field systems” means a wastewater system, which is comprised of a septic tank and a drain-field, which accepts wastewater from buildings or facilities for subsurface treatment and disposal. By their design, septic tank/drain-field system discharges cannot be controlled with design standards.
 “Source protection zone” means the specified surface and subsurface area surrounding a ground-water source of drinking water supplying a Public Water Supply, through which contaminants are reasonably likely to move toward and reach such ground-water source. These zones shall have the approval of the State of Utah, Division of Drinking Water as described in R309-600 Source Protection: Drinking Water Source Protection for Ground-Water Sources and as stated herein.
 “Time of travel distance” means the distance that groundwater will travel in a specified time. This distance is generally a function of the permeability and slope of the aquifer. Time of travel is determined from Hydrological Quality, Division of Drinking Water.
 “Wellhead” means the upper terminal of a well, including adapters, ports, seals, valves and other attachments.


===== 6.05.030 Establishment Of Drinking Water Source Protection Zones =====
There are hereby established use districts to be known as zones one, two, three, and four, and management area of the drinking water source protection area. These zones shall have the approval of the State of Utah, Division of Drinking Water as described in R309-600 Source Protection: Drinking Water Source Protection for Ground-Water Sources and are identified and described as follows: “Zone 1” is the area within a one hundred (100) foot radius from the wellhead or margin of the collection area.
 “Zone 2” is the area within a two hundred and fifty (250) day groundwater time of travel to the wellhead or margin of the collection area, the boundary of the aquifer(s) which supplies water to the ground-water source, or the groundwater divide, whichever is closer.
 “Zone 3” is the area within a three (3) year groundwater time of travel to the wellhead or margin of the collection area, the boundary of the aquifer(s) which supplies water to the ground-water source, or the groundwater divide, whichever is closer.
 “Zone 4” is the area within a fifteen (15) year groundwater time of travel to the wellhead or margin of the collection area, the boundary of the aquifer(s) which supplies water to the ground-water source, or the groundwater divide, whichever is closer.
 “Management Area” is the area outside of Zone 1 and within a two (2) mile radius where the optional Two-mile Radius Delineation Procedure has been used to identify a protection area, as described in the Utah, Division of Drinking Water R309-600 Source Protection: Drinking Water Source Protection for Ground-Water Sources. This area shall be treated as for Zone 2.
 In some cases, such as bedrock areas, Zones 2, 3, and 4 are overlapping due to the inability to determine time of travel. These are sensitive areas. In these cases, the zone shall be protected as for Zone 2.


===== 6.05.040 Identification Of Public Water Systems And Drinking Water Source Protection Zones =====
Utah Administrative Code R309-600 requires public water systems to submit a drinking water source protection plan to the Utah State Division of Drinking Water, for each of its groundwater sources of drinking water.
 Pursuant to Utah Code § 10-8-15, municipalities have extra-territorial jurisdiction to prevent the pollution or contamination of domestic and culinary water, including groundwater sources. Each municipality claiming extra-territorial jurisdiction, pursuant to Utah Code § 10-8-15, shall notify the Utah County Health Department, Division of Environmental Health, and specifically identify each of the areas over which it claims jurisdiction in the unincorporated area of the County. Municipalities adopting a source protection ordinance in compliance with Utah Code § 19-4-113, shall notify the Utah County Health Department, Division of Environmental Health, and specifically identify each of the areas over which it claims jurisdiction in the County. If changes to areas over which a municipality claim extra-territorial jurisdiction are made, the municipality shall notify the Utah County Health Department, Division of Environmental Health within forty-five (45) days. All notifications shall come in written form and geographic information system (GIS) data.
 Drinking Water Source Protection Map : As necessary, the Utah County Health Department, Division of Environmental Health, shall utilize and incorporate the source protection information maintained, updated, and provided by the Utah State Division of Drinking Water.
 Overlapping Protection Zones: 
 Public water systems with overlapping protection zones shall cooperate in resolving conflicts in the land management strategies contained in the applicable source protection plans. If necessary, the Utah State Division of Drinking Water shall assist with the resolution of any conflicts between source protection plans approved for the public water systems.
 No permits or land use approvals, including, but not limited to, a subdivision approval, conditional or permitted use approval, business license or building permit shall be issued pending the resolution of any challenges to the boundaries or conflict between overlapping protection zones. In the event the challenge or conflict in overlapping protection zones cannot be resolved in one hundred eighty (180) days, the most restrictive provision shall apply.


===== 6.05.050 Allowed Uses =====
The following land uses shall be allowed within drinking water source protection zones: In Zones 1, 2, 3, and 4, each use legally established before the effective date of this chapter, and uses incidental and accessory to such use, may be continued in the same manner thereafter, provided that such use is not determined by any court of competent jurisdiction to be a nuisance under the provisions of federal, state, and/or local laws or regulations. All new land uses, changes of land use, or expansions of land use, shall comply with the requirements of this chapter.


===== 6.05.060 Prohibited Uses =====
Subject to the allowed uses, as described above, the following uses are prohibited within the following drinking water source protection zones, as shown on the Utah County Drinking Water Source Protection Zone Map: Zone 1 : All uses that fall within the definition in this chapter of “pollution source” or “potential contamination source.”
 Zone 2 : All uses that fall within the definition in this chapter of “pollution source” or “potential contamination source," unless permitted in accordance with UCC 6.05.080 Subsection B.


===== 6.05.070 Drinking Water Source Protection Requirements =====
Following the effective date of this chapter, no building permit or other form of approval from the County to develop or use real property within the County shall be issued until the applicant establishes that the applicant’s proposed development or use of real property complies with the requirements of this chapter. Each such applicant shall provide to the Utah County Community Development Department a letter from the Utah County Health Department, Division of Environmental Health, certifying that the proposed use complies with the requirements of this chapter. In addition, following the effective date of this chapter, no building permit or other form of approval shall be issued by any municipality to develop or use real property within the boundaries of Utah County until the applicant establishes to the issuing municipality that its proposed development or use of real property complies with the requirements of this chapter. Each such applicant shall provide to the issuing municipality a letter from the Utah County Health Department, Division of Environmental Health, certifying that the proposed use complies with the requirements of this chapter.


===== 6.05.080 Alleged Overly Protective Zones =====
If an applicant for a permit or approval to develop or use property disagrees with the boundaries of a drinking water source protection zone, such boundaries may be disputed according to the following procedure:
 The applicant shall submit written comments to the public drinking water system stating the reasons that the protection zone boundaries are being disputed and request that the public drinking water system authorize a new hydrogeologic study.
 The public drinking water system may authorize a new hydrogeologic study at the expense of the applicant or elect to conduct a new hydrogeologic study at its own expense.
 If the public drinking water system declines to authorize a new hydrogeologic study, the applicant may appeal this determination to the Board of Health. In the event that the Board of Health authorizes a new study, the study shall be conducted at the expense of the applicant.
 Upon completion, the new hydrogeologic study shall be submitted to the Utah Division of Drinking Water for review.
 If the Division of Drinking Water adopts the new hydrogeologic study and modifies the boundaries of the applicable drinking water source protection zones, the application shall be processed in accordance with the modified source protection zones. 
 Applicants for a permit or approval to install, relocate, or expand a wastewater system may be exempt from Zone 2 prohibited use restrictions on wastewater systems for a parcel or lot, as defined by Utah Code § 17-79-102, existing prior to June 1, 2010 if: 
 a septic system density study, performed by a geotechnical or hydrogeologic professional licensed in the State of Utah, clearly indicates that the installation of the proposed number of approved onsite wastewater systems will not increase the maximum contamination level (MCL) of nitrate concentration within the affected groundwater source above the United States Environmental Protection Agency's currently stated MCL goal, in which case an approved onsite wastewater system may be used; or a sceptic system density study has not been performed, the proposed and installed wastewater system must be a contaminant and nitrate reducing alternative onsite wastewater system approved by the Utah County Health Department, and meet the requirements set forth below: the applicant has received written permission for the proposed onsite wastewater system from the public water system(s) who has delineated the drinking water source protection zones(s); or the applicant may inquire with the Health Department if the public water system(s) who delineated the drinking water source protection zone(s) utilized the Preferred Delineation Procedure, as set forth by the State of Utah to draw the relevant zone(s); and if the Preferred Delineation Procedure was utilized: The public drinking water system(s) shall be notified by the Health Department and have five (5) business days after receiving the notice in which to submit an objection to the Health Department regarding the applicant's proposed installation of an onsite wastewater system, noting specific concerns. The applicant may then hire an engineer licensed to evaluate groundwater contamination issues to
respond to the objection. If the engineer responds to the objections and concludes that the proposed contaminant and nitrate reducing alternative onsite wastewater system is unlikely to contaminate the drinking water source(s) in question, the Health Department shall approve the application if no other concern is raised by the State. if the preferred Delineation Procedure was not utilized then no objection may be raised. the applicant has received written permission for the proposed onsite wastewater system from the public water system(s) who has delineated the drinking water source protection zones(s); and
 for Zone 2, except in instances where a septic system density study, performed by a geotechnical or hydrogeologic professional licensed in the State of Utah, clearly indicates that the installation of the proposed number of a conventional onsite wastewater systems will not increase the maximum contamination level (MCL) of nitrate concentration within the affected groundwater source above the United States Environmental Protection Agency’s currently stated MCL goal, in which case a conventional onsite wastewater system may be used, the proposed and installed wastewater system is a contaminant reducing alternative onsite wastewater system approved by the Utah County Health Department. HISTORY Amended by Ord. 2023-24 Updated Alleged Overly Protective Zones on 1/4/2023


===== 6.05.090 Administration =====
This chapter shall be administered by the Utah County Health Department, provided that, in addition to any other remedies, a public water system, retail water supplier, or wholesale water supplier may seek enforcement of this chapter in a district court located in Utah County if the County (i) notifies the public water system, retail water supplier or wholesale water supplier within ten (10) days of receiving notice of a violation of this chapter that the County will not seek enforcement of this chapter; or (ii) does not seek enforcement within two days of a notice of violation of this chapter when the violation may cause irreparable harm to the groundwater source.


===== 6.06 Utah State Fire Code =====
6.06.010 Adoption Of Utah State Fire Code 6.06.020 Establishment And Duties Of Bureau Of Fire Prevention 6.06.030 Definitions - Utah State Fire Code 6.06.040 Fire Flow And Fire Sprinkler Requirements 6.06.050 Establishment Of Limits Of Districts In Which Storage Of Explosives And Blasting Agents Is To Be Prohibited 6.06.060 Appeals 6.06.070 Penalties 6.06.080 Superseding Conflicting Ordinances 6.06.090 Recovery Of Fire Suppression Costs 6.06.100 Exemptions Of Temporary Tents And Remote Yurts


===== 6.06.010 Adoption Of Utah State Fire Code =====
There is hereby adopted by the County, as provided in Utah Code § 15A-1-403, for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion occurring in the unincorporated area of the county, the Utah State Fire Code which adopts, with amendments, additions, and modifications, the International Fire Code, the most current edition adopted by the state, issued by the International Fire Code Council, Inc., (“IFC”), save and except such portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified, or amended by the Utah County Code, as authorized in Utah Code § 15A-1-403, hereinafter referred to as the Fire Code. In the event of any conflict between the terms of the Fire Code, the terms of this chapter shall control to the extent permitted under state law. The following appendices to the International Fire Code are hereby adopted: Appendix B-Fire Flow Requirements for Buildings, Appendix C-Fire Hydrant Locations and Distribution, Appendix D-Fire Apparatus Access Roads, Appendix E-Hazard Categories, Appendix F-Hazard Ranking, and Appendix G-Cryongenic Fluids-Weight and Volume Equivalents. The Fire Code is hereby adopted in book form as provided in Utah Code § 17-64-502, and incorporated by such adoption as fully as if set out at length herein, and shall be controlling within the limits of the unincorporated area of the County.


===== 6.06.020 Establishment And Duties Of Bureau Of Fire Prevention =====
There is hereby established a Bureau of Fire Prevention within the Utah County Community Development Department, which Bureau shall be managed by the Community Development Director, which shall operate as the department of fire prevention when the function of such department is required by the Fire Code. The Fire Code shall be enforced by the said Bureau of Fire prevention and its officers as hereinafter set forth. There shall be the position of Fire Marshal within the Bureau of Fire Prevention, who shall serve as the “code official” or “Fire Marshal”, when the function of such officer is required by the Fire Code, and shall have the duties required in state law, the Fire Code, and other ordinances of the County appertaining to his office or required by the Fire Marshal's supervision. In addition to the position of Fire Marshal, the Bureau of Fire Prevention may include technical inspectors and other staff members, when authorized by the County Commission, who work under the direction of the Fire Marshal to assist the Fire Marshal in completing the Fire Marshal's duties. In addition to, or as a part of, the duties specified in this chapter, the Bureau of Fire Prevention shall carry out the duties required by it in the contracts which the County has made with incorporated cities for fire protection in the unincorporated area. The Bureau of Fire Prevention in carrying out the enforcement of the Fire Code, may request and shall receive in so far as may be necessary and practical, the assistance and cooperation of other officials of the County and the contracting cities. Where there are practical difficulties involved in carrying out the provisions of the Fire Code, the Fire Marshall shall have the authority to grant modifications for individual cases, provided the Fire Marshall shall first find that special individual reason makes the strict letter of the Fire Code impractical and the modification is in compliance with the intent and purpose of the Code and that such modification does not lessen health, life and fire safety requirements. The details of action granting modifications shall be recorded and entered in the files of the Bureau of Fire Protection.


===== 6.06.030 Definitions - Utah State Fire Code =====
When used in this title the following words and phrases shall have the following meanings:

“Building area” shall mean the area included within the surrounding exterior walls (or exterior walls and firewalls) exclusive of vent shafts and courts. Areas of the building not provided with surrounding walls shall be included in the building area if such areas are included within the horizontal projections of the roof or floor above.

“Chief appointing authority”, “appointing authority” or “governing body” when used in the International Fire Code, shall mean the County Commission.

“Classification of roof covering” or “roof assembly” shall refer to the classification of a covering established by the International Building Code. The three International Building Code classifications of roof allowed in Urban Interface areas are Class A, Class B and Class C.

“Cluster” shall refer to developments of not less than five (5) separate building sites or lots (except for platted mountain home developments or recreational resorts having fewer than five (5) building sites or lots for the entire development). A cluster shall be so designed as to provide that each building site within the cluster shall contain a location for a one-family dwelling which meets the standards of the International Building Code.

“Code official” when used in the Fire Code, shall mean the Fire Marshal.

“Construction” shall mean the erection, building enlargement, alteration, repairing, moving, or structure or the wiring, piping, heating, cooling, ventilation, refrigeration, sanitation, or transportation fixtures and equipment therein, or the excavation, filling or paving of land.

“Development” shall be construed to include any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including but not limited to paving, excavation, drilling operations, storage of equipment or materials or landscaping.

“Fuel break” or “fire break” shall refer to a maintained area of land denoted by the thinning of
 
native vegetation, the removal of dead plant material, and the replacing of highly flammable vegetation with irrigated areas and fire resistant plants in a manner and breadth approved by the Fire Marshal.

“Fire Department” when used in the International Fire Code, shall mean the Utah County Community Development Department.

“Fire flow” shall mean the flow rate of a water supply measured at twenty (20) pounds per square inch residual pressure that is available for fire fighting.

“Heavy fuel” shall mean vegetation consisting of round wood three (3) to eight (8) inches in diameter.

“Heavy timber” shall have the meaning as defined in the International Building Code as adopted by Utah County.

“Large scale development” shall mean a large scale development as defined in the Utah County Land Use Ordinance .

“Light fuel” shall mean vegetation consisting of herbaceous plants and round wood less than 1/4 inch in diameter.

“Log wall construction” shall mean a type of construction in which the exterior walls are constructed of solid wood members and where the smallest horizontal dimension of each solid wood member is at least six (6) inches.

“Medium fuel” shall mean vegetation consisting of round wood 1⁄4 to three (3) inches in diameter.

“Temporary Tent” shall mean tents, or tensioned membrane structures, that are not erected for a period of more than one hundred eighty (180) days within a twelve (12) month period on a single premise.

“Tent” shall mean a structure, enclosure or shelter, with or without sidewalls or drops, constructed of fabric or pliable material supported by any manner except by air or the contents it protects.


===== 6.06.040 Fire Flow And Fire Sprinkler Requirements =====
Pursuant to authority granted in the Fire Code and in Utah Code § 15A-5-203, all structures shall be required to provide fire flow consistent with the International Fire Code, but the following shall be exempt from the fire flow requirements of the Fire Code (the occupancy types referred to herein under shall be defined in section 202, occupancy classification of the International Fire Code): Structures with type “U” occupancies. Public utility poles and lines. Structures built in accordance with the International Residential Code (IRC) or “R3" occupancies under six thousand (6,000) square feet of building area (any expansion or addition which causes the structure to exceed said limitation shall require that the entire structure meet the fire flow requirements) if such occupancy complies with the following: the occupancy has a fire break approved by the Fire Marshal and maintained by the owner or occupant; and the occupancy is on a lot equal to or greater than five (5) irrigated acres. The following occupancies, if under nine hundred (900) square feet of building area and separated in distance from other structures by at least twenty feet: “B”, “E”, “F-2”, “M”, and “S2". Structures built in accordance with the International Residential Code (IRC) or “R3” occupancies over six thousand (6,000) square feet and under ten thousand (10,000) square feet of building area (any expansion or addition which causes the structure to exceed said limitation shall require that the entire structure meet the fire flow requirements) if such occupancy complies with Paragraphs A3a and A3b, and has approved fire sprinklers. Structures built under the IRC or R-3 occupancies over ten thousand (10,000) square feet of building area shall be fire sprinklered in accordance with National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) standards and meet fire flow requirements. The Fire Marshal is authorized to use the current edition of NFPA 1142 as a guide when determining fire-flow in areas without a central water supply with the following stipulations: Structures shall be fire sprinklered. Water tanks for fire suppression shall be pre-designed with site-specific engineering meeting the requirements of NFPA 22. Water storage tanks for fire suppression shall have a capacity of not less than fifteen thousand (15,000) gallons. Additionally, the minimum requirements for water supplies shall be subject to increase by the Fire Prevention Bureau to compensate for circumstantial conditions such as: limited fire department resources, extended fire department response time or distance, potential delayed discovery of fire, limited access, hazardous vegetation, structural attachments such as decks and porches, unusual terrain, special uses or unusual occupancies and exposure structures. Subsections A, B, and C shall be in accordance with the IFC Section 501 as amended by the Utah State Fire Marshal’s Office. Notwithstanding the above, the Fire Marshal may require an automatic fire sprinkler system for the structures that meet any of the conditions in Utah Code § 15A-5-203, which is hereby adopted into this chapter.


===== 6.06.050 Establishment Of Limits Of Districts In Which Storage Of Explosives And Blasting Agents Is To Be Prohibited =====
The storage of explosives and blasting agents as these terms are defined in the Fire Code is prohibited in the following areas: All areas of the County lying East of the following line: Beginning at the intersection of the center of the right-of-way of Utah State Highway U-68 and the Utah County-Salt Lake County boundary line; thence Southerly along the center of the right-of-way to its intersection with the center of the right-of-way of Utah State Highway US-6; thence Easterly along the center of said right-of-way to its intersection with the center of the right-of-way of Utah State Highway I-15 at Santaquin City; thence Southerly along the center of said right-of-way to its intersections with the Utah County-Juab County boundary line; plus, the storage of explosives and blasting agents is prohibited within one (1) mile of the municipal limits of any municipality, city or town.


===== 6.06.060 Appeals =====
Pursuant to Utah Code § 53-7-204, there is hereby created the Fire Code Board of Appeals of Utah County (the “Board”) to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions or determinations from the administration and enforcement of the Fire Code as adopted and amended herein. The members of the board shall be appointed by the County Commission and shall serve until replaced or a resignation is accepted by the County Commission. The Board shall consist of three members who are qualified by training and experience to pass on such code related matters pertaining to the Fire Code and are not employees of Utah County. There must be a minimum of two (2) members to form a quorum. The chair, or the acting chair, shall conduct all hearings and may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. The Secretary of the Community Development Department shall be the Secretary of the Board and shall keep minutes of the proceedings showing the vote of each member upon each question or, if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact; and shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions. These minutes and records, along with the appeal application, written statements, and other facts bearing on the appeal and decision of the Board, shall be filed in the office of the Board and shall be public record. The Secretary shall make an audio recording of the proceedings of the Board, and a transcription may be requested from the Secretary. The Board shall establish rules relating to such requests, including a reasonable compensation to be paid to the Secretary for making the transcription. The Secretary shall oversee the making of the transcript and shall be responsible for maintaining the integrity of the recording. Where more than one record exists or is purported to exist, a transcription caused to be prepared by the Secretary and certified to its accuracy before a notary public, shall be the official record of the proceedings of the Board. Any person or entity wishing to appeal a decision made in applying the Fire Code may commence such action by completing the standard forms and filing the forms in the office of the Secretary of the Board. The Secretary of the Board shall accept and process such forms only if they are properly completed and accompanied by the filing fee in the current amount set by the County Commission. Any appeal of a decision made in applying the Fire Code must be properly filed within twenty (20) calendar days of the date of the contested decision, or it shall be time-barred and not heard. The Board shall fix a reasonable time for hearing the appeal and decide the same. The Board shall set a standard procedure for conducting public hearings and reviewing requests before the Board, which may include: reasonable limits of time in which appellants, respondents, and other parties may speak; sign-up sheets for those who wish to speak at the public hearing (and cut off times for adding names); deadlines for submitting written comment; and other rules needed to conduct a fair and orderly hearing. The decision of the Board shall be based upon the facts and not upon expressions of support or protest, or lack of support or protest, which may be made at the hearing. Any party may appear at the hearing in person or by agent or by attorney. An appeal shall be approved only when the Board finds that all of the forms, procedures, and rules have been completed and fully complied with. To reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination made in administering or interpreting the Fire Code it shall require the concurring vote of a majority of the members of the Board hearing the matter. When an appeal is approved, the Board shall enter into the official minutes the specific reasons for approval, any conditions or limitations of the approval, and the names of those voting for and against. If the decision of the Board is to deny an appeal, the Board shall enter into the official minutes the specific reasons for denial and the names of those voting for and against. The Board shall not grant the relief appealed for unless it finds that all of the following standards have been met: Prior to filing the appeal with the Board, the Board shall lack jurisdiction and shall not hear the appeal unless, within ten (10) calendar days of the date of the decision being appealed, the appellant provided to the Code Official, or other person or entity which made the decision in question, a claim of error which fully sets forth a brief statement of the facts, and the nature of the claim of error. Within fifteen (15) calendar days of the date of the decision being appealed, the Code Official, or other person or entity which made the decision in question may, but is not required to, respond in writing to the claim of error. The claim of error shall be deemed denied if the Code Official, or other person or entity which made the decision in question, fails to approve or deny the claim of error or otherwise respond. A copy of the claim of error, and any response received, shall be attached to the appeal application. If the Board finds that the claim of error was timely filed, the Board shall not grant the reversal or relief appealed for unless it finds that all of the following standards have been met: The appellant has filed a properly completed written application for appeal, which states with specificity the nature of the alleged error and how the appellant has been adversely affected by said alleged error. The application for appeal was properly filed with the Secretary of the Board twenty (20) calendar days or less after the date of the decision being appealed. This twenty (20) calendar day filing deadline is jurisdictional and the Board shall dismiss the appeal if the Board finds that the application for appeal filing deadline has not been met. The appellant is a party which was adversely affected by the subject decision applying the Fire Code. If the Board grants the appellant’s request, the result will be consistent with the provisions of the Fire Code, and not waive or modify any of the terms or requirements thereof. The applicant has the burden of proving that an error was made; however, expressions of support or protest alone shall not constitute the basis of approval or denial. The Board shall presume that the order, requirement, decision, or determination made in the administration or determination of the Fire Code is valid; and determine only whether or not the order, requirement, decision, or determination is arbitrary, capricious, or illegal. An order, requirement, decision, or determination is valid if the decision is supported by substantial evidence in the record and is not arbitrary, capricious, or illegal. A determination of illegality requires a determination that the order, requirement, decision, or determination violates a law, statute, or ordinance in effect at the time the order, requirement, decision, or determination was made. If there is a record, the Board’s review is limited to the record provided; and the Board may not accept or consider any evidence outside the record, unless that evidence was previously offered and it was improperly excluded. If there is no record, the Board may call witnesses and take evidence. After a decision has been made, the secretary shall file the written decision of the Board in the Community Development Office and mail a copy of the decision to the applicant at the address supplied in the application form. The decision of the Board shall be deemed final at the time it is filed in the Community Development Office. Any person adversely affected by any decision of the Board may file a petition with the Fourth District Court for Utah County for a review of that decision. Any such appeal or petition shall be barred unless it is filed within twenty (20) calendar days of the date when the decision was filed in the Community Development Office. The petition shall be limited to the allegation that the decision of the Board was arbitrary, capricious, or illegal. The Board shall transmit to the reviewing court the complete record of its proceedings, including applications, exhibits, minutes, findings, orders, and any transcript of audio recordings which may be on file with the Board. The person or entity filing the petition for review shall request from the Secretary to the Board a verbatim transcript of the record and such person or entity shall pay the reasonable transcription fees as set by the Board. If there is a record, the review of the district court is limited to the record, and the court may not accept or consider evidence outside of the record unless it determines that such evidence was offered to the Board and improperly excluded. If there is no record, the court may call witnesses and take evidence. The court shall affirm the decision of the Board if the decision is supported by substantial evidence in the record. Filing a petition for review with the court does not automatically stay the decision of the Board. Before filing the petition for review with the court, the aggrieved party may petition the Board to stay its decision. The Board shall take action on any petition to stay only in a meeting where proper notice was given and where a quorum is present. Upon considering such petition to stay, the Board may grant the stay if it finds such to be in the best interests of the County. After filing a petition for review with the court, the petitioner may seek from the court an injunction staying the decision of the Board. No decision of the Board shall be subject to rehearing by the Board, except when remanded from a court of competent jurisdiction.


===== 6.06.070 Penalties =====
Any property owner or other person, firm, corporation, partnership, or entity violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a class B misdemeanor; it shall be a separate offense for each and every day within which a violation of any provision of this chapter is committed. Upon conviction, the violator shall be punished as provided by UCC 1.04.010.


===== 6.06.080 Superseding Conflicting Ordinances =====
Consistent with Utah Code § 15A-1-403, should the provisions of the Fire Code be deemed to be in conflict with the requirements of another ordinance, the more restrictive regulations shall apply.


===== 6.06.090 Recovery Of Fire Suppression Costs =====
Any person responsible for the existence or spread of a wildland fire, or any other fire, on public or private property, necessitating suppression action shall be liable for the payment of the costs of the suppression action. The County, by and through its County Commission, may recover from any person responsible for the existence or spread of a wildland fire, or any other fire, on public or private property, the costs of the suppression action. The payment of suppression costs under this section does not constitute an admission of liability or negligence in any legal action for damages. The County may obtain assistance from the Utah State Attorney General or a municipal attorney of the affected jurisdiction to assist the County in recovering fire suppression costs.


===== 6.06.100 Exemptions Of Temporary Tents And Remote Yurts =====
This chapter shall not prohibit the use of temporary tents or membrane structures that are used solely for recreational camping. This chapter shall not prohibit the use of remote yurts as defined in Utah Code § 15A-1-204(12)(b) that meet all of the requirements of Utah Code § 15A-1-204. HISTORY Amended by Ord. 2020-572 on 7/29/2020


===== 6.07 Fire Safety Permit =====
6.07.010 Permit Required


===== 6.07.010 Permit Required =====
Consistent with Utah Code § 53-7-204, which provides for the issuance of permits, no construction shall commence on any new building or structure, no building or structure shall be moved onto property, and no building or structure shall be occupied until a Fire Safety Permit therefore has been issued by the Utah County Fire Marshal stating the conditions under which the building has been approved according to the provisions adopted by this chapter.


===== 6.08 Open Fires =====
6.08.010 Regulations For Open Fires 6.08.020 Open Fire Permits 6.08.030 Open Fire Or Smoking Areas Designated


===== 6.08.010 Regulations For Open Fires =====
Regulation for open fires shall be in accordance with the International Fire Code Section 307.


===== 6.08.020 Open Fire Permits =====
As provided in Utah Code § 53-7-204, the Fire Marshal may issue permits for open fires in a manner not inconsistent with Utah Code §§ 11-7-1 or 19-2-114. Open fire permits shall be issued in accordance with International Fire Code Section 105.6.32.


===== 6.08.030 Open Fire Or Smoking Areas Designated =====
The Fire Marshal may, and the Fire Marshal is hereby authorized in his or her discretion to, designate places where it shall be lawful or unlawful to build open fires or to light, ignite or set fire to any tobacco, cigarette, pipe, cigar or other smoking device on private property, with the permission of the owner thereof, or upon any public road, or within any public park, or upon any public land. The Fire Marshal may place or cause to be placed uniform signs or posters on or at such premises indicating the place or limits where such fires may be built and maintained, or where such smoking may take place, without further permit or permission; provided, however, that it shall be unlawful to leave or cause or permit to be left, any lighted tobacco or any fire burning in such place. Before leaving such place tobacco or fire shall be thoroughly extinguished and so completely covered with mineral earth in such manner as to adequately prevent such tobacco or fire from burning thereafter.


===== 6.09 Fireworks Act =====
6.09.010 Conformance With The Utah Fireworks Act


===== 6.09.010 Conformance With The Utah Fireworks Act =====
The sections of this chapter are intended to be adopted so as to conform to the Utah Fireworks Act, which comprises Utah Code §§ 53-7-220 through 53-7-225; all interpretations of this chapter shall be made in accord with such Act. Rules, specifications, standards or requirements promulgated by the Utah State Fire Prevention Board are included and adopted and incorporated by reference.


===== 6.10 General Fire Protection Standards =====
6.10.010 Maintenance


===== 6.10.010 Maintenance =====
The fire protection provisions required by the Fire Code and/or by this title shall be maintained by property owner and/or the applicable homeowner’s association as a condition of maintaining “adequate fire protection” in accordance with Utah Code § 11-7-1 of the Fire Code, and the protective covenants made with the County at the time of development approval. Any fire alarm system shall be the responsibility of the owner to be maintained in proper operating order. After a maximum of two (2) recorded false alarms from an alarm company or local alarm during any twelve (12) month period, the owner shall be responsible for costs of fire department and/or law enforcement response related to any additional false alarms occurring within said twelve (12) month period.


===== 6.11 Wildland/Urban Interface Areas =====
6.11.010 Scope 6.11.020 Access 6.11.030 Emergency Water Supplies 6.11.040 Structural Design And Construction 6.11.050 Manufactured Homes 6.11.060 Defensible Space Requirements 6.11.070 Storage Of Combustible Materials 6.11.080 Fireworks 6.11.090 Outdoor Fires


===== 6.11.010 Scope =====
This chapter applies to “Large Scale Developments” which include: Recreational Resorts, Mountain Home Developments and Subdivisions in the Wildland/Urban Interface lands, and structures not included within a platted Large Scale Development. The specific needs for fire prevention in these high fire prone areas are subject to the regulations of this chapter are delineated on the most recent version of the Wildland Urban Interface fire overlay map as promulgated by the State of Utah, incorporated herein by reference. The provision of both UCC 6.08 and UCC 6.09 shall apply to all areas of the Wildland/Urban Interface shown in the aforementioned map.


===== 6.11.020 Access =====
Driveways : Driveways shall be provided when any portion of an exterior wall of the first story of a building is located more than one hundred fifty (150) feet from a fire apparatus access road. Driveways shall provide a minimum unobstructed width of twelve (12) feet and a minimum unobstructed height of thirteen (13) feet six (6) inches. Driveways in excess of one hundred fifty (150) feet in length shall be provided with turnarounds. Driveways in excess of two hundred (200) feet in length and less than twenty (20) feet in width shall be provided with turnouts in addition to turnarounds. Driveway turnouts shall be all-weather surfaced road at least ten (10) feet wide and thirty (30) feet long and located not more than two hundred (200) feet apart or as approved by the County Engineer. A driveway shall not serve in excess of five (5) dwelling units. Driveway turnarounds shall have inside turning radii of not less than thirty (30) feet and outside turning radii of not less than forty-five (45) feet. Driveways that connect with a road or roads at more than one (1) point may be considered as having a turnaround if all changes of direction meet the radii requirements for driveway turnarounds. Grade : The gradient for fire apparatus access roads and driveways shall not exceed the maximum approved by the code official. It will be up to the code official to ascertain the maximum grade based on specifications of the fire equipment providing fire protection, provided that the maximum grade shall not exceed ten percent (10%) unless a steeper grade is approved by the Fire Marshal. Address Markers : All buildings shall have a permanently posted address, which shall be placed on the structure or at each driveway entrance, and be visible from both directions of travel along the road. In all cases, the address shall be posted at the beginning of construction and shall be maintained thereafter, and the address shall be visible and legible from the road on which the address is located.


===== 6.11.030 Emergency Water Supplies =====
Notwithstanding Section 507 and Appendix B of the International Fire Code and because of a greater exposure of fire in Urban Interface areas, an approved water supply capable of supplying the required fire flow for fire protection shall be provided to all premises upon which facilities, buildings, or portions of buildings are hereafter constructed or moved into clustered large scale developments in the Urban Interface. The minimum fire flow and flow duration requirements for a one family dwelling having a building area which does not exceed three thousand six hundred (3,600) square feet shall be one thousand (1,000) gallons per minute for two (2) hours. The fire flow for all other occupancies and for dwellings greater than three thousand six hundred (3,600) square feet shall be determined by the Fire Marshal using the International Fire Code as a guide. A reduction in required fire flow of up to seventy-five percent (75%), as approved by the Fire Marshal, is allowed when the building is provided with an approved automatic sprinkler system, and when an adequate vegetation clearance is maintained. Water supplies for fire sprinklers shall comply with currently adopted NFPA standards. The above fire flow requirements shall not apply to any dwelling outside of a Large Scale Development which is in the Urban Interface when provided with a fire break as defined herein and as such firebreak is maintained by the owner-occupants. Also excluded are any “U” and “S2” occupancies under nine hundred (900) square feet and farm buildings not within fifty (50) feet of a structure with habitable space. Exception : Structures intended for human occupancy over ten thousand (10,000) square feet of building area shall have approved fire flow as outlined in Paragraph B. The above fire flow requirements shall not apply to dwellings within clustered large scale developments previously approved without fire flow when provided with approved fire sprinkler systems. Water storage supplies shall likewise be calculated to provide the required daily culinary supply for each building lot plus the required fire flow for the building having the greatest demand. The fire flow requirements of this section shall not be applied in Large Scale Developments approved prior to September 15, 1978. Facilities, buildings, and structures constructed or expanded after the effective date of this chapter, in said developments, which fail to comply with the emergency water requirements of this section shall not exceed one thousand (1500) square feet of building area as defined by the International Fire Code unless a listed automatic sprinkler system in accordance with currently adopted NFPA standards is installed or adequate fire flow is provided.


===== 6.11.040 Structural Design And Construction =====
The International Fire Code is hereby amended to include the following provisions:
 New structures and additions, expansions, or alterations or remodels of more than fifty percent (50%) of building component or area being affected of existing structures in the Wildland/Urban Interface areas of Utah County shall meet the following requirements: Automatic Fire Sprinkler Systems : Automatic fire sprinkler systems shall be installed in all dwellings. All other occupancies shall have fire sprinkler systems as required by the International Fire Code. Automatic fire sprinkler systems shall comply with currently adopted NFPA standards. Roof Covering : Roofs shall have at least a Class B roof assembly or an approved noncombustible roof covering. For roof coverings where the profile allows a space between the roof covering and roof decking, the space at the eave ends shall be fire-stopped to preclude entry of flames or embers, or have one layer of seventy-two (72) pound (32.4 kg) mineral-surfaced, non- perforated cap sheet complying with ASTM D 3909 installed over the combustible decking. Roof Valleys : When provided, valley flashings shall be not less than 0.019 inch (0.48 mm) (No. 26 galvanized sheet gage) corrosion-resistant metal installed over a minimum thirty-six (36) inch-wide (914 mm) underlayment consisting of one layer of seventy-two (72) pound (32.4 kg) mineral-surfaced, non-perforated cap sheet complying with ASTM D 3909 running the full length of the valley. Existing Roof Coverings : The roof covering on buildings or structures in existence prior to the adoption of this code that are replaced or have fifty percent (50%) or more replaced in a twelve (12) month period shall be replaced with a roof covering required for new construction.
 Protection of Eaves : Combustible eaves, fascias and soffits shall be enclosed with solid materials with a minimum thickness of three quarters (3/4) inch (19 mm) or approved ignition resistant materials. No exposed rafter tails shall be permitted unless constructed of heavy timber materials. Gutters and Downspouts : Gutters and downspouts shall be constructed of noncombustible material. Gutters shall be provided with an approved means to prevent the accumulation of leaves and debris in the gutter. Exterior Walls : Exterior walls of buildings or structures shall be constructed with one of the following methods: Approved noncombustible materials. Heavy timber or log wall constructions.
 Fire-retardant-treated wood on the exterior side. The fire-retardant-treated wood shall be labeled for exterior use and meet the requirements of Section 2303.2 of the International Building Code.
 Approved building materials installed over fire-rated sheetrock or other similar noncombustible material with ignition-resistant materials on the exterior side. Such material shall extend from the top of the foundation to the underside of the roof sheathing or approved soffit.
 Unenclosed Under Floor Protection : Buildings or structures shall have all under floor areas enclosed to the ground, with exterior walls in accordance with exterior walls requirements above.
 Exception : Complete enclosure shall not be required where the underside of all exposed floors and all exposed structural columns, beams and supporting walls are protected as required for exterior one (1) hour fire- resistance-rated construction or heavy timber construction or fire- retardant-treated wood. The fire-retardant-treated wood shall be labeled for exterior use and meet the requirements of Section 2303.2 of the International Building Code.
 Appendages and Projections : Unenclosed accessory structures attached to buildings with habitable spaces and projections, such as decks, shall be constructed of, or a combination of: approved noncombustible materials; fire-retardant-treated wood identified for exterior use and meeting the requirements of Section 2303.2 of the International Building Code; heavy timber construction. The minimum required dimensions for heavy timber used in residential decks in WUI areas of unincorporated Utah County shall be as follows: posts, nominal eight by eight (8”x8”); beams, nominal six by ten (6”x10”); joists, nominal six by ten (6”x10”); one-hour fire-resistance-rated construction; or when the attached structure is located and constructed so that the structure or any portion the roof projects over a descending slope surface greater than ten percent (10%), the area below the structure shall have all under floor areas enclosed to within six (6) inches of the ground, in accordance with exterior wall construction above.
 Exterior Glazing : Exterior windows, window walls and glazed doors, windows within exterior doors, and skylights shall be tempered glass, multilayered glazed panels, glass block or have a fire-protection rating of not less than 20 minutes.
 Exterior Doors : Exterior doors shall be approved noncombustible construction, solid core wood not less than one and three quarters (1 3/4)-inches thick (45 mm), or have a fire protection rating of not less than twenty (20) minutes. Windows within doors and glazed doors shall be in accordance with Exterior glazing requirements above. Vents : Attic ventilation openings, foundation or under floor vents or other ventilation openings in vertical exterior walls and vents through roofs shall not exceed one hundred forty-four (144) square inches each. Such vents shall be covered with noncombustible corrosion-resistant mesh with openings not to exceed one quarter (1/4) inch or shall be designed and approved to prevent flame or ember penetration into the structure.
 Vent Locations : Attic ventilation openings in soffits, in eave overhangs, between rafters at eaves, or in other overhang areas, shall be fire resistant and shall be approved by the Fire Marshal. Gable end and dormer vents shall be located at least ten (10) feet from lot lines. Under floor ventilation openings shall be located as close to grade as practical. Detached Accessory Structures :
 Detached accessory structures located less than fifty (50) feet (15,240 mm) from a building containing habitable space shall have exterior walls constructed in accordance with Paragraph A5. When the detached accessory structure is located and constructed so that the structure or any portion thereof projects over a descending slope surface greater than ten percent (10%), the area below the structure shall have all under floor areas enclosed to within six (6) inches (152 mm) of the ground, with exterior wall construction in accordance with exterior wall requirements above or under floor protection in accordance with unenclosed under floor protection requirements above.
 Exception : The under floor area enclosure shall not be required where the underside of all exposed floors and all exposed structural columns, beams and supporting walls are protected as required for exterior one (1) hour fire-resistance-rated construction or heavy-timber construction or fire-retardant-treated wood on the exterior side. The fire-retardant-treated wood shall be labeled for exterior use and meet the requirements of Section 2303.2 of the International Building Code.
 Spark Arrestors : Chimneys serving fireplaces, barbecues, incinerators or decorative heating appliances in which solid or liquid fuel is used, shall be provided with a spark arrester. Spark arresters shall be constructed of woven or welded wire screening of Number 12 USA standard gage wire (0.1046 inch) (2.66 mm) having openings not exceeding one eighth (1/8) inch (12.7 mm). The net free area of the spark arrester shall not be less than four times the net free area of the outlet of the chimney.
 Exceptions to Construction Requirements in the Wildland-Urban Interface Code : Additions, alterations, or remodels to existing non-conforming structures, involving less than a fifty percent (50%) expansion, alteration, or remodel of the structure shall not be required to meet the requirements of new construction provided the additions or alterations or remodel meet or exceed the fire safety requirements of the existing structure.
 Dwellings located in an area of light fuel extending at least one half (1⁄2) mile beyond a conforming defensible space and conforming with the water supply requirements of UCC 6.11.030 shall meet the following less restrictive requirements:
 Automatic Fire Sprinkler Systems : Automatic fire sprinkler systems shall be installed in all dwellings and in all other occupancies as required by the International Fire Code. Automatic fire sprinkler systems shall comply with NFPA standards. Roof Covering : Roofs shall have at least a Class C roof assembly or an approved noncombustible roof covering. For roof coverings where the profile allows a space between the roof covering and roof decking, the space at the eave ends shall be fire-stopped to preclude entry of flames or embers, or have one layer of seventy-two (72) pound mineral-surfaced, non-perforated cap sheet complying with ASTM D 3909 installed over the combustible decking Roof Valleys : When provided, valley flashings shall be not less than 0.019 inch (0.48 mm) (No. 26 galvanized sheet gage) corrosion-resistant metal installed over a minimum thirty-six (36) inch-wide (914 mm) underlayment consisting of one layer of seventy-two (72) pound (32.4 kg) mineral-surfaced, non-perforated cap sheet complying with ASTM D 3909 running the full length of the valley. Existing Roof Coverings : The roof covering on buildings or structures in existence prior to the adoption of this code that are replaced or have fifty percent (50%) or more replaced in a twelve (12) month period shall be replaced with a roof covering required for new construction. Unenclosed Under Floor Protection : Buildings or structures shall have all under floor areas enclosed to the ground with exterior walls. Exception : Complete enclosure may be omitted where the underside of all exposed floors and all exposed structural columns, beams and supporting walls are protected as required for exterior 1-hour fire- resistance-rated construction or heavy timber construction. Gutters and Downspouts : Gutters and downspouts shall be constructed of noncombustible material. Gutters shall be provided with an approved means to prevent the accumulation of leaves and debris in the gutter. Spark Arrestors : Chimneys serving fireplaces, barbecues, incinerators or decorative heating appliances in which solid or liquid fuel is used, shall be provided with a spark arrester. Spark arresters shall be constructed of woven or welded wire screening of 12 USA standard gage wire (0.1046 inch) (2.66 mm) having openings not exceeding one half (1/2) inch (12.7 mm). The net free area of the spark arrester shall not be less than four (4) times the net free area of the outlet of the chimney. Exceptions to Construction Requirements in Light Fuel Areas of the Wildland-Urban Interface Code : Additions, alterations, or remodels to existing non-conforming structures, involving less than a fifty percent (50%) expansion, alteration, or remodel of the structure shall not be required to meet the requirements of new construction provided the additions or alterations or remodel meet or exceed the fire safety requirements of the existing structure.
 The most current edition of the International Wildland-Urban Interface Code shall, at the discretion of the Fire Marshal, be consulted for guidance in determining fire safety requirements.


===== 6.11.050 Manufactured Homes =====
Where manufactured homes are permitted, they shall meet all applicable construction and safety standards and shall be provided with full skirting constructed of noncombustible materials. Any porches and sun-decks shall be constructed of non-combustible or listed fire-retardant materials.


===== 6.11.060 Defensible Space Requirements =====
Notification : The Utah County Fire Marshal shall be notified, in writing, and a site plan submitted for approval before development or construction of any structure commences so that vegetation can be evaluated and ample clearance around structure(s) can be determined. Minimum Requirements : Unless otherwise specified by the Fire Marshal, minimum vegetation clearance will be as follows: Grass and Groundcovers : Dry or non-fire resistive grass and groundcovers shall be cleared and maintained to a maximum of five (5) inches in height within thirty (30) feet of the structure and a maximum of eighteen (18) inches in height from thirty (30) to fifty (50) feet from the structure. Areas beyond fifty (50) feet from the structure shall be determined by the fire marshal.
 Trees : Trees within fifty (50) feet of a structure shall comply with the following: Canopies of individual trees or small groups of trees shall be a minimum of ten (10) feet apart. Canopies shall not be permitted to extend within ten (10) feet from under eaves, decks, or balconies or chimney openings. Trees within fifty (50) feet of a structure shall be pruned to a height of six (6) feet above the ground, trees less than twenty (20) feet in height shall have the lower one-fourth (1/4) pruned. All trees within fifty (50) feet of a structure shall be kept free of dead or dying materials.
 Dead Vegetative Material : All dead vegetative material shall be removed and maintained clear within fifty (50) feet of any structure.
 Propane or Fuel Tanks : Ground vegetation around tanks shall be maintained no higher than inches for a minimum of ten (10) foot radius. Trees and brush shall be trimmed maintaining a minimum of three (3) feet above the tank. Fire Hydrants : Vegetation or other obstructions shall be maintained below four (4) inches high. Clearance shall be provided three (3) feet on all sides of the hydrant and extend to the roadway.
 Disposal of Flammable Vegetation and Fuels : Disposal, including chipping, burying, or removal to an approved landfill shall be completed prior to final inspection of a building permit. Open Burning of these materials is prohibited.


===== 6.11.070 Storage Of Combustible Materials =====
General : Firewood and combustible material shall not be stored in unenclosed spaces beneath buildings or structures, or on decks or under eaves, canopies or other projections or overhangs. When required by the code official, storage of firewood and combustible material stored in the defensible space shall be located a minimum of thirty (30) feet from structures and separated from the crown of trees by a minimum horizontal distance of fifteen (15) feet. Storage for Off-site Use : Firewood and combustible materials not for consumption on the premises shall be stored so as to not pose a hazard.


===== 6.11.080 Fireworks =====
Fireworks shall not be used or possessed in Wildland/Urban Interface areas.


===== 6.11.090 Outdoor Fires =====
No person shall build, ignite or maintain any outdoor fire of any kind for any purpose in or on any Wildland/Urban Interface area, except by the authority of a written permit from the code official. Exception : Outdoor fires specifically allowed by any governmental agency having jurisdiction over the land. Exception : Outdoor fires within inhabited premises or designated campsites where such fires are in a permanent barbecue, listed commercially manufactured portable barbeque, outdoor fireplace, incinerator or grill and are a minimum of thirty (30) feet from any combustible material or non-fire-resistive vegetation.
 No person shall use a permanent barbeque, portable barbeque, outdoor fireplace or grill for the disposal of rubbish, trash or combustible waste material. Incinerators, outdoor fireplaces, permanent barbeques and grills shall not be built, installed or maintained in Wildland/Urban Interface areas without approval of the code official. Openings in such appliances shall be provided with an approved spark arrestor, screen or door.
 The pile of fuel to be burned in the fire area for recreational fires shall not be larger than three (3) feet in diameter and one (1) foot in height. A garden hose connected to a water supply or other approved fire-extinguishing equipment shall be readily available for use at recreational fires. Recreational fires are required to be constantly attended by a person knowledgeable in the use of the fire-extinguishing equipment. The attendant shall supervise the burning material until the fire has been extinguished. Openings in fireplaces – including fire pits – shall be provided with an approved spark arrestor, screen or door. Fire pits shall have a flat or doomed spark screen constructed of woven or welded wire or approved metal and have openings not exceeding one half (1/2) inch.


===== 6.12 Hazardous Materials =====
6.12.010 Definitions 6.12.020 Recovery Of Expenses


===== 6.12.010 Definitions =====
The definition of terms used herein are intended to be consistent with Title 29, Chapter XVII, Part 1910, Subpart Z, Section 1910.1200(c) of the Code of Federal Regulations. Hazardous Material : "Hazardous chemical" means any chemical which is a physical hazard or a health hazard. "Health hazard" means a chemical, mixture of chemicals or a pathogen for which there is statistically significant evidence based on at least one study conducted in accordance with established scientific principles that acute or chronic health effects may occur in an exposed individual. The term "health hazard" includes chemicals which are carcinogens, toxic or highly toxic agents, reproductive toxins, irritants, corrosives, sensitizers, heptaotoxins, nephrotoxins, neurotoxins, agents which act on the hematopoietic system, and agents which damage the lungs, skin, eyes, or mucous membranes. It also includes stress due to temperature extremes. "Physical hazard" means a chemical for which there is scientifically valid evidence that it is a combustible liquid, a compressed gas, explosive, flammable, an organic peroxide, an oxidizer, pyrophoric, unstable (reactive) or water-reactive. "Hazardous material incident" means a sudden and unexpected release or threat of release of any substance that because of its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics presents a direct threat to health, public safety, the environment, or property. "Expenses" means direct and indirect costs of labor, equipment, administrative overhead, governmental agencies, private contractors, contract labor and materials, disposable and damaged items associated with the response, containment, control, and mitigation of a hazardous material incident.


===== 6.12.020 Recovery Of Expenses =====
The County may recover from those persons whose actions caused the costs of a hazardous materials emergency response incurred by the County or any of its agencies directly associated with the response to a hazardous materials incident taken under authority of this chapter or any other applicable law. The payment of expenses under this section does not constitute an admission of liability or negligence in any legal action for damages. The County may obtain assistance from the Utah State Attorney General or a municipal attorney of the affected jurisdiction to assist the County in recovering expenses and legal fees. Any recovered costs shall be deposited in the general fund of the County. 
 7 PUBLIC PEACE / MORALS / WELFARE 7.01 Miscellaneous Offenses 7.02 Weapons 7.03 Large Public Gatherings 7.04 Curfew Ordinance 7.05 Use Of County Roads And County Property 7.06 Lewdness 7.07 Camping 7.08 County Trails 7.09 Nuisances 7.10 Cleaning Of Real Property 7.11 Utah County Weed Control 7.12 Unreasonable Noise 7.13 Utah County Criminal Justice Coordinating Council


===== 7.01 Miscellaneous Offenses =====
7.01.010 Representation Of Articles Sold At Auction 7.01.020 Boosters At Auctions 7.01.030 Resisting Or Obstructing A Peace Officer 7.01.040 Obstructing Service Of Process 7.01.050 Refusing To Aid An Officer 7.01.060 Personating A Public Officer 7.01.070 Sale Of Tobacco To Minors 7.01.080 Purchase Or Possession Of Tobacco By Minors 7.01.090 Disposition Of Stolen Property 7.01.100 Prohibited Conduct In Hospitals, Treatment Facilities 7.01.110 County Sheriff To Designate Unsafe Areas 7.01.120 Entrance Upon Unsafe Areas Prohibited 7.01.130 Items Prohibited At Utah County Jail 7.01.140 Penalties 7.01.150 Prohibited Targets


===== 7.01.010 Representation Of Articles Sold At Auction =====
All auction sales and all persons participating in sales must truly and correctly represent at all times to the public attending such auction the facts in respect to quality of merchandise being sold.


===== 7.01.020 Boosters At Auctions =====
No person shall act in any sale by auction as a by-bidder or "booster" to bid on behalf of the auctioneer or owner, to run up the price of the article to be sold, or to make any false bid.


===== 7.01.030 Resisting Or Obstructing A Peace Officer =====
A person who knowingly resists or obstructs the performance, by one known to the person to be a peace officer, of any authorized act within the peace officer’s official capacity, shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor.


===== 7.01.040 Obstructing Service Of Process =====
A person who knowingly resists or obstructs the authorized service or execution of any civil or criminal process or order of any court shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor.


===== 7.01.050 Refusing To Aid An Officer =====
A person who, upon command, refuses or knowingly fails reasonably to aid a person known by him to be a peace officer in apprehending a person whom the officer is authorized to apprehend, or to prevent the commission by another of any offense, shall be fined not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00).


===== 7.01.060 Personating A Public Officer =====
Any person who falsely personates a public officer, sheriff, deputy sheriff, justice of the peace, coroner or notary public or other peace officer of any character whatsoever, and in such assumed character arrests or detains or attempts or threatens to arrest or detain, or otherwise intimidates or searches the person, building or other property of any person, or obtains money, or property or other thing of value, shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor.


===== 7.01.070 Sale Of Tobacco To Minors =====
Any person who sells, gives or furnishes any cigar, cigarette, or tobacco in any form, to any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years is guilty of a class C misdemeanor.


===== 7.01.080 Purchase Or Possession Of Tobacco By Minors =====
Any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years who buys, accepts or has in that person’s possession any cigar, cigarette, or tobacco, in any form, shall be guilty of an infraction.


===== 7.01.090 Disposition Of Stolen Property =====
Definition : For purposes of this chapter:

"Stolen property" is defined as all property held by the County Sheriff as part of a criminal investigation into the theft or robbery of goods or related offenses. Duty to investigate : The County Sheriff shall investigate all goods reported stolen by theft or deception and may seize the same pending the completion of the criminal investigation. Return of property : All property seized by the County Sheriff as part of a criminal investigation shall be returned in accordance with any court orders governing the disposition of the goods in the criminal proceeding or as stated in Utah Code Title 24, Utah Code Chapter 77-24a, or applicable successor statutes.


===== 7.01.100 Prohibited Conduct In Hospitals, Treatment Facilities =====
Possession of unauthorized alcohol, intoxicants, drugs, etc. : It shall be unlawful for any person to take any unauthorized alcohol, intoxicant, and/or unauthorized drugs of any kind or description into any treatment facility or hospital, any portion of which is used for treatment of persons for alcoholism or addiction to drugs. Making unauthorized substances available to persons under treatment : It shall be unlawful for any person to make available to any other person who is under treatment for alcoholism, or drug addiction, any alcoholic substance, any intoxicant, or unauthorized drug when the person providing the substances knows or should know that the recipient is under treatment for alcoholism or drug addiction. Trespass : It shall be unlawful for any person to trespass within any hospital or treatment facility, any portion of which is used for the care and treatment of persons for alcoholism or drug addiction. Any such person shall be deemed to be trespassing when the person remains on the premises after having been requested to leave. Firearms, dangerous weapons : It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a peace officer or other authorized person, to take a firearm of any description or any other dangerous weapon into, or onto the grounds of any hospital or treatment facility, any portion of which is used for treatment of persons for alcoholism or drug addiction. Unauthorized drug, intoxicant, defined : For purposes of this section, an unauthorized drug or intoxicant will be any drug, intoxicant, or similar substance not prescribed by a physician for the use of the person being treated at the subject facility or hospital. Violation; penalty : Any violation of this section shall be deemed a class B misdemeanor.


===== 7.01.110 County Sheriff To Designate Unsafe Areas =====
The County Sheriff may designate any area of ground in the County as unsafe. The County Sheriff in determining that any area is unsafe shall take into consideration:
 the condition of the weather; the location of said area; the condition of the snow in respect to the likelihood of snowslides being caused by reason of persons going upon or within close proximity of the same; and any other hazard or dangerous condition that exists or is likely thereafter to exist.


===== 7.01.120 Entrance Upon Unsafe Areas Prohibited =====
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly and intentionally go upon any area of ground designated by the County Sheriff to be unsafe.


===== 7.01.130 Items Prohibited At Utah County Jail =====
Except as provided by jail policy or rule, the following items may not be possessed at the Utah County Jail or transported to or upon the Utah County Jail: any type of tobacco product; any match, lighter, or other device capable of igniting a fire; any drug paraphernalia; any item which could be used as a weapon and which is not already prohibited by Utah Code § 76-8-311.3; or any pornographic material as defined in Utah Code 76-10 Part 12.


===== 7.01.140 Penalties =====
Any person who knowingly and intentionally possesses at the Utah County Jail or transports to or upon the Utah County Jail any item set forth in UCC 7.01.130 shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor.


===== 7.01.150 Prohibited Targets =====
No person within the unincorporated area of the County, including state and federal public lands, shall use or possess with intent to use as a target any object, either solid, liquid, vapor, or particulate, that will shatter, break apart, fragment, ignite, or explode, that may create a hazard or nuisance to any persons, property, public lands, wildlife, or livestock. This section does not apply to:
 any objects used as targets commonly referred to as clay pigeons, sporting clays, or objects of a similar nature; and any private property owner on the owner’s property, or any person on the private property owner’s property in possession of written permission from the property owner to engage in recreational shooting activities on the property.


===== 7.02 Weapons =====
7.02.010 Adoption Of Utah Code Chapter 76-10 Part 5: Weapons 7.02.020 Children To Be Accompanied By Adults While Hunting With Or Discharging Any Weapon 7.02.030 Discharge Of Weapons 7.02.040 Night Hunting Restricted; Exceptions, Penalties


===== 7.02.010 Adoption Of Utah Code Chapter 76-10 Part 5: Weapons =====
Utah Code §§ 76-10-501 to 524: Weapons, is hereby expressly adopted as a Utah County Ordinance. Any part of said code which cannot be legally imposed for a violation of a county ordinance is not adopted.


===== 7.02.020 Children To Be Accompanied By Adults While Hunting With Or Discharging Any Weapon =====
As used in this section, "accompanied" means at a distance within which visual and verbal communication is maintained for the purposes of advising and assisting. A person under the age of fourteen (14) years must be accompanied by the person’s parent or legal guardian, or other responsible person of the age of twenty-one (21) years or older and approved by the person’s parent or guardian, while hunting with, or discharging, any weapon. A person of at least fourteen (14) years of age and under sixteen (16) years of age must be accompanied by the person’s parent or legal guardian, or other responsible person of the age of twenty-one (21) years or older and approved by the person’s parent or guardian while hunting big game with any weapon. A person of at least fourteen (14) years of age and under sixteen (16) years of age must be accompanied by a person of the age of twenty-one (21) years or older while hunting wildlife other than big game with any weapon or while discharging any weapon. A person under the age of twelve (12) years is not permitted to hunt for protected wildlife except as provided by rules of the Utah Wildlife Board.


===== 7.02.030 Discharge Of Weapons =====
A person may not, without written permission from the owner or other person in charge, discharge a firearm across, into, or within six hundred (600) feet of: a house or dwelling; any structure where an animal is kept or fed including a barn, poultry yard, corral, feeding pen, or stockyard; or any public park, orchard, standing cornfield, standing silo, vehicle, or farm equipment.
 Hunting of any wildlife or the discharging of any firearm is prohibited within the boundaries of all state parks except those designated by the Division of Parks and Recreation (R651-603-5 Utah Administrative Code). Hunting with or discharging a rifle, handgun, or a muzzle-loader in, or within one mile of all state park facilities designated "open"—including buildings, camp or picnic sites, overlooks, golf courses, boat ramps, and developed beaches—is prohibited. Hunting with or discharging shotguns and archery tackle is prohibited within one quarter of a mile of the above stated park areas.
 Nothing herein shall prohibit the possession and use of firearms at an approved shooting range during the appropriate hours of operation.


===== 7.02.040 Night Hunting Restricted; Exceptions, Penalties =====
Pursuant to Utah Code § 23-13-17, hunting at night is permitted under the following conditions: The hunting shall be only for coyote, red fox, striped skunk, or raccoon and no other form of terrestrial or avian wildlife. Any artificial light used to spotlight the animal must be carried by the hunter. A motor vehicle headlight or light attached to or powered by a motor vehicle may not be used to spotlight the animal. While hunting with the use of an artificial light, the hunter may not occupy or operate a motor vehicle. The only firearm permitted for night hunting will be a shotgun using shot that is #2 size or smaller. The term "spotlight" or "spotlighting" means casting the rays of any artificial light on any highway, in any field, woodland, forest, or other land while having in possession a weapon by which protected wildlife may be killed. The term "motor vehicle" shall have the meaning as defined in Utah Code § 41-6a-102. Nothing in this section shall prevent any landowner or the landowner’s agent from using an artificial light, or reasonably and carefully discharging a firearm at any time on lands under the owner’s control for the purpose of protecting crops or domestic animals, so long as the owner does not endanger human life. Nothing in this section shall prevent any peace officer, conservation officer, or animal damage control agent in the official performance of the officer’s duties from the use of an artificial light or discharging a firearm at any time. “Nighttime” or “night”, within the meaning of this section, shall be that time from one- half hour after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise. Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be guilty of an infraction. Nothing in this section shall prevent a person from night hunting for the express and limited purpose of conducting bona fide scientific research and study sanctioned by the Utah State Division of Wildlife Resources or the U.S. Division of Wildlife Resources, when said person shall have first obtained written approval from the office of the County Sheriff. Nothing herein shall grant any person the right to trespass upon private, county, state, or federal property.


===== 7.03 Large Public Gatherings =====
7.03.010 In General 7.03.020 Permit HISTORY Amended by Ord. 2023-666 Updated Large Public Gatherings on 6/28/2023


===== 7.03.010 In General =====
Definition : For the purposes of this chapter, these words and phrases shall have the following definitions: "Gathering" shall mean a group or company of persons gathered together at any location at any single time for any purpose. "Large public gathering" shall mean an actual or reasonably anticipated gathering of two hundred and fifty (250) up to nine-hundred-ninety-nine (999) people which continues or can reasonably be expected to continue for two (2) or more consecutive hours. Enforcement and Penalty : The provisions of this chapter may be enforced by injunction in any court of competent jurisdiction. The holding of a gathering in violation of any provisions or condition contained in this chapter shall be deemed a threat to health, safety, and welfare of the public and public nuisance under both Utah Code § 76B-6-1101 and Utah County Code 7.09 and may be immediately abated as such. Any person, including, but not limited to, the applicant(s), event manager(s)/operator(s), and property owner(s), who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be jointly and severely liable and guilty of a class B misdemeanor, with a mandatory minimum criminal penalty of $950, and a civil fine not to exceed $1,000. Every 30 minutes after two hours for which the gathering continues to be in violation of this chapter shall constitute an additional count for each criminal and civil offense. Every individual over 250 shall constitute an additional count for each criminal and civil offense. For all criminal violations, the County is required under Utah Code 788-22-301 to provide for indigent defense services. Exceptions : The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to: a religious gathering at any regularly established, pennanent place of worship, stadium, athletic field, arena, auditorium, coliseum, or other similar permanently established gathering place which do not exceed the maximum capacity of the facility where the gathering is held;
 government-sponsored fairs held on regularly established fairgrounds; or spontaneous or unexpected gatherings. Applicability : This chapter shall only apply in unincorporated areas of Utah County, on both private and public property.
 Maximum Number of People Assembled : A permit issued under the provisions of this chapter shall permit the gathering of only the maximum number of people stated in the permit. The permittee shall not sell tickets to nor allow more than the maximum permissible number of people to gather at the permitted location. All gatherings of one thousand (1,000) people or more shall comply with Utah Administrative Code R392-400.


===== 7.03.020 Permit =====
Required : No person shall permit, maintain, conduct, undertake, or manage a large public gathering, whether on public or private property, unless a permit to hold the gathering has first been issued by Utah County. Gatherings with fewer people or of a shorter duration do not require a permit but are subject to other applicable laws and ordinances, including nuisance laws.
 Application : Application for a permit to hold a large public gathering shall be made in writing to Utah County Public Works at least thirty (30) days prior to such gathering.
 The application shall contain a statement made upon oath or affirmation that the statements contained therein are true and correct to the best knowledge of the applicant and shall be signed and sworn to or affirmed by the individual submitting the application. In all cases, the individual submitting the application shall have authority to sign the application and bind the applicant and its organization or entity, if applicable, and the property owner(s).  The minimum facility requirements shall be listed in the permit application, which shall contain and disclose:
 the name, mailing address, telephone number, and email of each applicant(s) and event manager(s)/operator(s);
 the number of people expected to attend the gathering; a description of the type of gathering to be held with the date range and times the gathering will be held;
 estimated length of stay of attendees; name, address, telephone number, and email of the property owner(s); the location of the gathering and a site plan delineating the area where the gathering is to be held including the following: the parking area available for patrons; location of entrance, exit, and interior roadways and walkways; location, type, and provider of restroom facilities; location and description of water stations; location and number of food stands, and the types of food to be served if known; location, number, type, and provider of solid waste containers; location of manager's/operator's headquarters at the gathering;
 a plan to provide lighting adequate to ensure the safety of attendees and staff; location and size of each parking area designated for the gathering and under the manager's/operator's control and appropriate parking and traffic control measures to be taken; and the location of each first aid station and emergency medical provider; the name of the solid and liquid waste haulers with whom the manager(s)/operator(s) has contracted, unless exempted; a site clean-up plan after the gathering;
 the total number and qualifications for first aid station personnel; an emergency medical services operational plan and contact information of the emergency medical provider;
 a plan for directional and exit signs; a plan developed by the manager(s)/operator(s) to address nuisance or health and safety hazards associated with animals present at the gathering;
 a plan to address hazardous conditions, including a contingency plan for evacuation, cancellation, or delay of the gathering;
 the plans of the applicant to limit the maximum number of people permitted to gather;
 the plans for fencing the location of the gathering and the gates contained in such fence or other plans to confine the area of the gathering;
 the plans for camping facilities, if any, including facilities available and their location;
 the plans for security including the number of guards, their deployment, and their names, addresses, credentials and hours of availability, as approved by the Utah County Sheriffs Office;
 the plans for serving alcohol, if any, and a copy of the appropriate alcohol license;
 the plans for fire protection including the number, type, and location of all protective devices including alarms and extinguishers, and the number of emergency fire personnel available to operate the equipment; and the plans applicable Utah County Health Department permits for food concessions and concessions who will be allowed to operate on the grounds including the names and addresses of all concessionaires and their license or permit numbers. The application shall include the deposit required and permit fee. The requirements set forth in this section are the minimum facility and plan requirements that shall be met and maintained for the duration of the gathering. Fee : The fee for each permit to hold a large public gathering shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each day.
 Refundable Deposit : Before any permit shall be issued under the provisions of this section, a refundable deposit must be made to the Utah County Public Works Department in the amount of two thousand dollars ($2000.00). The County reserves the right to retain the deposit for actual costs incurred for clean-up, abatement, or law enforcement response related to the large public gathering. If no costs are incurred by the County, the deposit shall be promptly returned to the applicant after the conclusion of the gathering and upon written request of the applicant.
 Upon request of the applicant, the County Commission may waive this requirement if the applicant is a non-profit organization, and the gathering would contribute to the safety, health, prosperity, moral well-being, peace, order, comfort, or convenience of the County's inhabitants.
 Issuance : The application of a permit required by the provisions of this chapter shall be processed within twenty (20) days of receipt and shall be issued if all conditions are complied with. 
 Effect of Issuance : A permit to hold a large public gathering issued to one person shall permit any person to engage in any lawful activity in connection with the holding of the permitted gathering. 
 Revocation : The permit issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked by the County at any time if any of the conditions of the permit are not complied with. 
 Review : In the event a permit is not granted, the applicant(s), event manager(s)/operator(s), or property owner(s) has the right to have the denial reviewed by the Utah County Commission upon written request to the Utah County Commission within five (5) days after the permit application has been denied.


===== 7.04 Curfew Ordinance =====
7.04.010 Purpose 7.04.020 Definitions 7.04.030 Sixteen-Year-Old Curfew 7.04.040 Eighteen-Year-Old Curfew 7.04.050 Parental Liability 7.04.060 Exceptions 7.04.070 Enforcement


===== 7.04.010 Purpose =====
The County Commission finds, due to a seemingly ever-increasing incidence of violence and other crime among juveniles in the County, being both drug related and gang related, that such crimes may be significantly inhibited and reduced by the enactment and enforcement of local law establishing a curfew prohibiting juveniles from remaining idly and purposelessly on the public streets late at night.


===== 7.04.020 Definitions =====
"Care and custody" means the legal authority of a parent or guardian to supervise or otherwise be responsible for a minor, or the express authority given from such parent or legal guardian of a minor to a responsible adult to supervise or otherwise be responsible for the activities and care of the minor. "Emergency errand" means any errand or travel undertaken to directly and immediately seek to prevent or reduce the consequences of an illness or injury, criminal or potential criminal activity, or fire or other accident and shall include the seeking of aid and assistance from medical or emergency response personnel or the purchase of medications. "Minor" means any unmarried, unemancipated person who is not a member of the armed forces of the United States and who is under the age of sixteen (16) years for the purposes of UCC 7.04.030 or who is under the age of eighteen (18) years for the purpose of UCC 7.04.040. "Public places" means any place open to the public whether privately owned, including but not limited to, parking lots and the interiors and exteriors of commercial establishments such as restaurants, stores, or places of entertainment.


===== 7.04.030 Sixteen-Year-Old Curfew =====
It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of sixteen (16) years to remain or loiter upon any of the sidewalks, streets, alleys or public places in the County between the hours of 11 P.M. and 5 A.M. the following morning.


===== 7.04.040 Eighteen-Year-Old Curfew =====
It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of eighteen (18) years to remain or loiter upon any of the sidewalks, streets, alleys, or public places in the County:
 after 11 P.M. Sunday through Thursday; prior to 5 A.M. Monday through Friday; and between 1 A.M. and 5 A.M. Saturday and Sunday.


===== 7.04.050 Parental Liability =====
It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian or other person having care and custody of any minor to knowingly allow or permit the minor to violate the provisions of this chapter.


===== 7.04.060 Exceptions =====
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any circumstance in which the minor is:
 accompanied by a parent, guardian, or other responsible adult having care and custody of such minor; engaged in a legitimate trade, employment, or occupation which requires the minor's presence in or on the sidewalks, streets, alleys, or public places while working at or travelling to or from such employment; engaged on an emergency errand directed by the minor's parent, guardian, or other responsible person having care and custody of the minor; in a motor vehicle engaged in normal interstate travel beginning in, travelling through, or ending in the County; attending or engaged in travelling between the minor's home or place of residence and a place where any religious, municipal, social, entertainment, sporting, political, library, or school function is occurring; or within the boundaries of the minor's place of residence.


===== 7.04.070 Enforcement =====
Any minor who is in violation of the provisions of this chapter is subject to arrest and citation. Upon arrest, the minor shall be returned to the custody of the parent, guardian, or other person charged with the care and custody of the minor. It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian, or other person charged with the care and custody of a minor, who is in violation of this chapter, to knowingly refuse to appear and take custody of said minor after being ordered to do so by a peace office. Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a class B misdemeanor.


===== 7.05 Use Of County Roads And County Property =====
7.05.010 Purpose And Intent 7.05.020 Definitions 7.05.030 Event Permits 7.05.040 Fees 7.05.050 Insurance 7.05.060 Revocation 7.05.070 Penalties


===== 7.05.010 Purpose And Intent =====
The purpose of this chapter is to establish permit requirements for events on County roads and on County property. The permit requirements and other regulations in this chapter are designed to balance the public’s First Amendment right to exercise free speech on County roads and County property with the public’s right to safely and conveniently use County roads and County property.


===== 7.05.020 Definitions =====
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words will have the accompanying definitions:
 “Event” means:
 an organized competitive or recreational event in which a group of fifty (50) or more people collectively and simultaneously engage in a sport or form of physical exercise, including but not limited to running, jogging, walking, bicycling, swimming, skating, or equestrian activity; an organized event having as its primary purpose the entertainment or amusement of a group of fifty (50) or more people, including but not limited to parades, carnivals, fairs, concerts, receptions, weddings, parties, or other gatherings; an organized activity in which a group of ten (10) or more people engage in the production of photographic, video, or audio recordings, with the exception of news reporting and of small groups of ten (10) or less people involved in the production of recordings for strictly personal use; an organized group of fifty (50) or more people collectively and simultaneously engaged in an expressive activity on County roads or County property, as defined under this chapter; or the use of any County road or County property by reservation as required by the Utah County Facility Use Policy.
 “Expressive activity” means:
 peacefully assembling, protesting, or speaking; distributing literature; carrying a sign; or signature gathering or circulating a petition.
 “County road” means all public roads, streets, sidewalks, and trails within the County:
 not designated as state highways; that are situated outside of incorporated cities and towns; roads and streets situated within incorporated cities and towns that have been designated as county roads; and public roads located within a national forest and constructed or maintained by the County under agreement with the appropriate federal agency.
 “County property” means all real property leased, owned, or maintained by the County, including rights-of-way, easements, and improvements.


===== 7.05.030 Event Permits =====
No person, entity, or organization shall permit, maintain, promote, conduct, advertise, sponsor, organize, manage, or operate any event as defined in this chapter, which goes upon, over, or crosses any County road or County property unless an event permit has been obtained. An application for an event permit shall be made in writing to the County Public Works Department. For events defined in 7.05.020 Paragraph A,3, the application shall be made at least ten (10) business days prior to the event; for all other events the application shall be made at least twenty (20) business days prior to such event. The application shall contain a statement made upon oath or affirmation that the statements contained therein are true and correct to the best knowledge of the applicant and shall be signed and sworn to or affirmed by the individual making the application. The application shall contain and disclose such information as determined necessary by the County and shall be on forms provided by the County Public Works Department.
 This chapter does not apply to any of the following:
 People engaging in expressive activities who gather at a public forum to exercise their constitutionally protected rights under the First Amendment of the United States Constitution. Organized groups of fifty (50) or more people are not exempt from this chapter. A person, organizer, or promoter using County property for an event pursuant to a separate contract with the County. Such contracts shall be in standard form and used in accordance with the regular and normal business purposes of the County property. Any person, organizer, or promoter using County property by contract shall abide by any limitations or requirements set by the municipality in which the County property is located. Any meeting or event that is subject to the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act.
 HISTORY Amended by Ord. 2024-703 Updated Event Permits on 8/14/2024


===== 7.05.040 Fees =====
The fee to hold an event upon County roads or County property shall be as set forth in the Utah County Government Current Fee Schedule and Ordinance in effect as of the date an application is submitted. Upon request of the applicant, the County Commission may waive the fee in accordance with the Utah County Facility Use Policy.


===== 7.05.050 Insurance =====
Prior to issuance of an event permit, the applicant shall obtain event insurance or liability insurance in a form and amounts acceptable to the County as provided in the Utah County Facility Use Policy and shall provide the County with a certificate of said insurance. Applicants seeking an event permit to conduct an expressive activity at a nonpublic forum may petition the County Commission to waive or reduce the insurance requirements. Applicants seeking an event permit to conduct an expressive activity at a public forum may petition the County Commission to waive or reduce the insurance requirements


===== 7.05.060 Revocation =====
The event permit issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked by the County at any time if any of the conditions necessary for the issuing of or contained in the event permit are not complied with, or if any condition previously met ceases to be complied with.


===== 7.05.070 Penalties =====
Any person who knowingly permits, maintains, promotes, conducts, advertises, sponsors, organizes, manages, or operates any event as defined in UCC 7.05.020, without obtaining the event permit required by UCC 7.05.030, shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in UCC 1.04.010.


===== 7.06 Lewdness =====
7.06.010 Lewdness


===== 7.06.010 Lewdness =====
A person is guilty of lewdness if the person under circumstances not amounting to rape, object rape, forcible sodomy, forcible sexual abuse, aggravated sexual assault, or an attempt to commit any of those offenses, intentionally or knowingly does any of the following acts in a public place or under circumstances which the person should know will likely cause affront or alarm to another who is fourteen (14) years of age or older: an act of sexual intercourse or sodomy; exposes his or her genitals, the female breast below the top of the areola, the buttocks, the anus, or the pubic area; masturbates; engages in trespassory voyeurism; or any other act of lewdness. Lewdness is a class B misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in UCC 1.04.010. A woman’s breast feeding, including breast feeding in any location where the woman otherwise may rightfully be, does not under any circumstance constitute an act of lewdness, irrespective of whether or not the breast is covered during or incidental to feeding.


===== 7.07 Camping =====
7.07.010 Definitions 7.07.020 Prohibitions Against Unauthorized Camping 7.07.030 Authorized Camping Within The County 7.07.040 Prohibitions Against Construction Of Structures 7.07.050 Removal Of Unauthorized Campsites 7.07.060 Disposition And Release Of Personal Property


===== 7.07.010 Definitions =====
“Camp” or “camping” means, for purposes of this chapter, to set up or to remain on or at a campsite.

“Campsite” means, for purposes of this chapter, any place where bedding, sleeping bag, or other material used for bedding purposes, or any stove or fire is placed, established, or maintained for the purpose of maintaining a place to dwell or sleep, whether or not such place incorporates the use of any tent, lean-to, shack, or any other structure, or any vehicle or part thereof, temporarily or otherwise. A private residence, hotel, motel, or other legal permanent structure built for habitation is not included in the definition of a campsite. 

“Contraband” means any property, item, or substance which is unlawful to produce or possess under state or federal law.

“Personal property” means any tangible item reasonably recognizable as belonging to a person and having apparent utility or monetary value.

“County property” means any real property, building, or structure owned, used, or leased by the County or any department thereof, including, but not limited to any sidewalk, street, parking strip, alley, lane, public right-of-way, park, open space, bench, equipment, or other property.

“Reasonable notice” means notice reasonably calculated under all the circumstances to apprise a person that an action is prohibited on a property in a location and, where personal property is deposited, affords the person reasonable time to gather their personal property and depart.

“Semi-permanent or permanent structure” means any structure that is not designed to be temporary, and which cannot be deconstructed within a reasonable time and carried from the property by a single person.


===== 7.07.020 Prohibitions Against Unauthorized Camping =====
No person may camp or establish a campsite on any County property within the limits of an incorporated city or within unincorporated Utah County except: In a County designated campground and in compliance with all rules of that campground and all other applicable laws; or As specifically authorized beforehand in writing by the County or its authorized agent and in compliance with all other applicable laws rules of use.
 Violations of Subsection A shall constitute a trespass. A peace officer may arrest or cite violators who fail or refuse to vacate County property within the limits of an incorporated city in accordance with the applicable city code. Failure or refusal to vacate County property within unincorporated Utah County shall be a class B misdemeanor. In accordance with Utah Code § 17-64-501(3)(d), the County is required, under Utah Code § 77B-22-301, to provide for indigent legal defense, as those terms are defined in Utah Code § 77B-22-102.


===== 7.07.030 Authorized Camping Within The County =====
Members of the public may camp on County property in accordance with UCC 07.05.020 Subsection A. All other camping on County property shall be unauthorized and is prohibited. A peace officer who reasonably determines that a person camping or a campsite on County property is a source of unreasonable noise, litter, danger, or has probable cause to believe there is illegal activity other than camping occurring on the property may, in conjunction with the peace officer’s use of other enforcement powers, give reasonable notice to vacate the campsite.


===== 7.07.040 Prohibitions Against Construction Of Structures =====
No person may construct a semi-permanent or permanent structure on County property except as specifically authorized beforehand in writing by the County or its authorized agent or pursuant to an authorized event permit in accordance with UCC 07.304. On County property within an incorporated city, a violation of this provision shall be considered a trespass, and a peace officer may cite the violator in accordance with the applicable city code. Within unincorporated Utah County, a violation of this provision shall be a class B misdemeanor.


===== 7.07.050 Removal Of Unauthorized Campsites =====
Upon discovery of an unauthorized campsite on County property, the County or the County’s authorized agents may immediately remove the campsite if:
 after reasonable notice, the individual or individuals refuse to remove their personal property from the premises; the personal property reasonably appears to be abandoned or unclaimed; the personal property is contraband; there is probable cause for law enforcement officials to believe that illegal activities other than camping are occurring at the campsite; or the personal property presents immediate danger to human life, health, or safety including but not limited to presenting possible contamination of public or private property by unsanitary and/or hazardous materials.


===== 7.07.060 Disposition And Release Of Personal Property =====
Upon removal of a campsite, semi-permanent or permanent structure, all litter, including items having no apparent utility or monetary value and items in an unsanitary condition, may be immediately discarded or otherwise disposed of. All other personal property shall be gathered, retained, and released, with notice being provided to the property owner, in accordance with Utah Code Title 24, the Forfeiture and Disposition of Property Act, Utah Code Chapter 77-24a, Lost or Mislaid Personal Property, and relevant County Sheriff policy.


===== 7.08 County Trails =====
7.08.010 Prohibited Travel On County Trails 7.08.020 Prohibited Travel On Other Trails Or Passageways 7.08.030 Speed Limits On County Trails 7.08.040 Speed Limits On Other Trails Or Passageways 7.08.050 Defenses 7.08.060 Penalties 7.08.070 Lane Restrictions 7.08.080 Walking Zones 7.08.090 Safe Travel 7.08.100 Passing 7.08.110 Helmet 7.08.120 Leash Requirement


===== 7.08.010 Prohibited Travel On County Trails =====
No person shall use a County trail or parkway outside of the hours of use as posted on the trail or parkway. No person shall travel, use, or ride a skateboard, longboard or similar device utilizing a prone, luge, or skeleton technique on County trails and parkways.


===== 7.08.020 Prohibited Travel On Other Trails Or Passageways =====
No person shall use any other trail, parkway, or passageway outside of the hours of use as posted on such trail, parkway, or passageway. No person shall travel, use, or ride a skateboard, longboard, or similar device or utilize a prone, luge, or skeleton technique on any other trail, parkway, or passageway for which notice of the prohibition of the use is given by the property owner posting signs referencing this section which are reasonably calculated to come to the attention of trail, parkway, or passageway users.


===== 7.08.030 Speed Limits On County Trails =====
No person shall travel, use, or ride on County trails and parkways in excess of the lesser of fifteen (15) miles per hour or the posted speed limit.


===== 7.08.040 Speed Limits On Other Trails Or Passageways =====
No person shall travel, use, or ride on trails, parkways, or passageways in excess of the posted speed limit as posted by the property owner posting signs referencing this section which are reasonably calculated to come to the attention of trail, parkway, or passageway users.


===== 7.08.050 Defenses =====
The removal or vandalism of any sign, marking, or notice posted in accordance with this chapter which gives notice of the prohibitions contained in any section of this chapter by anyone other than the County or the property owner is not a defense to a violation of any section of this chapter.


===== 7.08.060 Penalties =====
Violation of any section of this chapter is punishable as an infraction. A fourth or subsequent violation of any section of this chapter is a class C misdemeanor.


===== 7.08.070 Lane Restrictions =====
Any pedestrian traveling or using paved County parkways and trails shall travel only in the lane designated for pedestrian traffic. Any person traveling, using, or riding on County parkways and trails and utilizing a self-propelled mechanism shall travel only in the lane designated for self-propelled mechanized traffic. For the purpose of this section and this chapter, a self-propelled mechanism is any wheeled device propelled by human power. Self-propelled mechanisms include, but are not limited to, longboards, skateboards, scooters, skates, inline skates, bicycles, attached bike trailers, wheelchairs, strollers, etc.


===== 7.08.080 Walking Zones =====
No person shall ride or use a self-propelled mechanism to travel, use, or ride on County trails and parkways in any zone signed or marked as a walking zone.


===== 7.08.090 Safe Travel =====
Notwithstanding any section of this chapter to the contrary, any person traveling, using, or riding on County trails and parkways shall remain in control of any self-propelled mechanism and shall not exceed a reasonable and prudent speed under the existing conditions giving regard to the actual and potential hazards then existing, including but not limited to surface conditions, sight distance, the proximity and travel direction of other trail users, and the person’s skill, experience, and ability.


===== 7.08.100 Passing =====
Any person utilizing a self-propelled mechanism which passes another County trail or parkway user traveling in the same direction shall pass to the left of the other user and prior to passing announce the intention to pass the other trail or parkway user.


===== 7.08.110 Helmet =====
Users of self-propelled mechanisms on County trails or parkways are strongly encouraged to use helmets.


===== 7.08.120 Leash Requirement =====
All dogs and or pets on paved County parkways and trails shall be leashed with a leash of six (6) feet or less and shall be kept in the owner’s or handler’s lane of travel.


===== 7.09 Nuisances =====
7.09.010 Definitions 7.09.020 Illustrative Enumeration 7.09.030 Prohibited


===== 7.09.010 Definitions =====
For the purposes of this chapter, the word "nuisance" is hereby defined as any person doing an unlawful act, or omitting to perform a duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which act, omission, condition, or thing either:
 injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety of others; offends decency; is offensive to the senses; unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct, or renders dangerous for passage any public or private street, highway, sidewalk, stream, ditch, or drainage; in any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of property; essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and property; or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.


===== 7.09.020 Illustrative Enumeration =====
The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving, or permitting to be or remain on any public or private property of any of the following items, conditions, or actions are hereby declared to be and constitute a nuisance; provided, however, this enumeration shall not be deemed or construed to be conclusive, limiting, or restrictive: noxious weeds and other rank vegetation; accumulation of rubbish, trash, refuse, junk, and other abandoned materials, metals, lumber, or other things; any condition which provides harborage for rats, mice, snakes, or other vermin; any building or other structure which is in such a dilapidated condition that it is unfit for human habitation, kept in such an unsanitary condition that it is a menace to the health of people residing in the vicinity thereof, or presents a more than ordinarily dangerous fire hazard in the vicinity where it is located; all unnecessary or unauthorized noises and annoying vibrations, including animal noises; all disagreeable or obnoxious odors and stenches, as well as the conditions, substances, or other causes which give rise to the emission or generation of such odors and stenches; the carcasses of animals or fowl not disposed of within a reasonable time after death;
 the pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal, or body of water by sewage, dead animals, creamery, industrial wastes, or other substances; any building, structure or other place or location where any activity which is in violation of local, state, or federal law is conducted, performed, or maintained; any accumulation of stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot or piece of ground; dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot, or cinders, in unreasonable quantities; the operation of an unlicensed business or the operation of a business at variance with the terms and conditions imposed in granting the license; or the use of dynamic braking devices, also known as engine retarders, and commonly known as "Jacob's Brake" or "Jake Brake", on Highway US 189 in Provo Canyon from the Utah County-Wasatch County Boundary for a distance of one and one-half (1 1⁄2) miles on Highway US 189 to the Southwest.


===== 7.09.030 Prohibited =====
It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, permit, maintain, or allow the creation or maintenance of a nuisance.


===== 7.10 Cleaning Of Real Property =====
7.10.010 Definitions 7.10.020 Real Property To Be Kept Clean 7.10.030 Control Of Unsightly Wastes 7.10.040 Abandonment Of Vehicles 7.10.050 Leaving Of Wrecked, Nonoperating Vehicle On Street 7.10.060 Disposition Of Wrecked Or Discarded Vehicles 7.10.070 Impounding 7.10.080 Presumption 7.10.090 Examination And Investigation 7.10.100 Notice Of Violation 7.10.110 County To Clean Property 7.10.120 Compelling Payment 7.10.130 Collection By Lawsuit


===== 7.10.010 Definitions =====
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them: "Property" means any real property within the County which is not a street or highway. "Street or highway" means the entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel. "Vehicle" means a machine propelled by power other than human power designed to travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides, and transport persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without limitation, automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle, tractor, buggy, and wagon.


===== 7.10.020 Real Property To Be Kept Clean =====
It shall be unlawful for any person owning or occupying any real property in the County to fail to control the growth of injurious and noxious weeds on such property or to fail to remove from such property any such weeds or any refuse and any unsightly or deleterious objects of structures upon notice from the County as provided in this chapter.


===== 7.10.030 Control Of Unsightly Wastes =====
It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or permit junk, scrap metal, waste paper products, discarded building materials, or any unused, abandoned vehicle, vehicles, or abandoned parts, machinery, or machinery parts, or other waste materials to be in or upon any yard, lot, or piece of property within the County or in or upon the parking space, or sidewalk adjoining such yard, lot, or piece of property within the County, whenever said items shall be unsightly and in public view.


===== 7.10.040 Abandonment Of Vehicles =====
No person shall abandon any vehicle within the County and no person shall leave any vehicle at any place within the County for such time and under such circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably to appear to have been abandoned.


===== 7.10.050 Leaving Of Wrecked, Nonoperating Vehicle On Street =====
No person shall leave any partially dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked, or junked vehicle on any street or highway within the County.


===== 7.10.060 Disposition Of Wrecked Or Discarded Vehicles =====
No person in charge or control of any property within the County, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise, shall allow any partially dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked, junked, or discarded vehicle to remain on such property longer than thirty (30) days; and no person shall leave any such vehicle on any property within the County for a longer time than thirty (30) days; except that this chapter shall not apply with regard to a vehicle in an enclosed building, a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful place and manner when necessary to the operation of such business enterprise, or a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful place and manner by the County.


===== 7.10.070 Impounding =====
The County Sheriff or any member of the County Sheriff's office designated by the County Sheriff is hereby authorized to remove or have removed any vehicle left at any place within the County which reasonably appears to be in violation of this chapter or lost, stolen, or unclaimed. Such vehicle shall be impounded until lawfully claimed or disposed of in accordance with state law.


===== 7.10.080 Presumption =====
For purposes of this chapter, a vehicle shall be prima facie presumed abandoned if it is not registered and inspected thirty (30) days after the date on which such registration and inspection is required by the laws of the State.


===== 7.10.090 Examination And Investigation =====
The County Board of Health, authorized employees of the County Health Department, or such employees as may be designated by the County Commission shall be authorized to make examination and investigation of all real property in the County, as allowed by law, to determine whether the owners of such property are complying with the provisions of this chapter.


===== 7.10.100 Notice Of Violation =====
Upon a determination that a violation of the provisions of this chapter exists, the County Board of Health or the employee designated by the County Commission shall ascertain the name of the owner and description of the premises where the violation exists, and shall serve notice in writing upon the owner or occupant of such property, either personally or by mailing notice, postage prepaid, addressed to the owner or occupant at the last-known post-office address as disclosed by the records of the County Assessor, requiring such owner or occupant, as the case may be, to eradicate or destroy or remove the weeds, refuse, objects, or structures causing the violation within such time as the County Board of Health or the employee designated by the County Commission may designate, which shall be no less than ten (10) days after the date of service of such notice. If notice has already been served once during the calendar year directing removal of weeds, no further notice need be served to compel such weed removal during such calendar year.


===== 7.10.110 County To Clean Property =====
If any owner or occupant of property described in the notice provided in this chapter shall fail to eradicate or destroy and remove such weeds, refuse, objects, or structures in accordance with such notice, the County Board of Health or the employee designated by the County Commission is hereby authorized to employ necessary assistance and cause such weeds, refuse, objects, or structures to be destroyed or removed. The County Board of Health or the employee designated by the County Commission shall prepare an itemized statement of all expenses incurred in the removal and destruction of same and shall mail a copy thereof to the owner demanding payment within twenty (20) days of the date of mailing. Such notice shall be deemed delivered when mailed by registered mail addressed to the last-known address of the property owner.


===== 7.10.120 Compelling Payment =====
In the event the owner fails to make payment of the amount set forth in the statement to the County Treasurer within twenty (20) days of the date of mailing, the County Board of Health or the employee designated by the Commission either may cause suit to be brought in an appropriate court of law or may refer the matter to the County Treasurer as provided in this chapter.


===== 7.10.130 Collection By Lawsuit =====
In the event collection of expenses of destruction and removal are pursued through the court, the County shall sue for and receive judgment for all of said expenses of destruction and removal, together with reasonable attorney's fees, interest, and court costs and shall execute upon such judgment in the manner provided by law.


===== 7.11 Utah County Weed Control =====
7.11.010 Definitions 7.11.020 Jurisdiction To Control Weeds 7.11.030 Authority To Create County Noxious Weed Control Fund 7.11.040 Utah County Weed Control Board 7.11.050 Authority Of Utah County Weed Control Board 7.11.060 Authority Of Commission To Designate County Noxious Weeds 7.11.070 Authority To Create Weed Control Supervisor 7.11.080 Duties Of Weed Control Supervisor 7.11.090 Annual Notice Of Noxious Weeds 7.11.100 Authority Of Utah County Weed Control Board To Provide Notice Of Violation 7.11.110 Authority Of The County To Control Or Prevent The Spread Of Noxious Weeds And Seek Reimbursement From Property Owner 7.11.120 Appeal Process For Disputing A Notice Of Violation


===== 7.11.010 Definitions =====
As used in this chapter:

“Commissioner of Agriculture” means the commissioner or designated representative of the Utah Department of Agriculture and Food.
 
“County noxious weed” means any plant that is:
 not on the state noxious weed list; especially troublesome in the County; and declared by the County Commission to be a noxious weed within the County. “Department” means the Utah Department of Agriculture and Food. “Noxious weed” means any plant the Commissioner of Agriculture determines to be especially injurious to public health, crops, livestock, land, or other property.


===== 7.11.020 Jurisdiction To Control Weeds =====
The Utah legislature, through the Utah Noxious Weed Act. has granted the County jurisdiction to develop, implement, and pursue an effective program for the control and containment of noxious weeds on all lands under the County’s jurisdiction, including highways, roadways, rights-of-way, easements, game management areas, and recreation areas.


===== 7.11.030 Authority To Create County Noxious Weed Control Fund =====
The County Commission may establish and maintain a noxious weed control fund for use in the administration of the Utah Noxious Weed Act and this chapter.


===== 7.11.040 Utah County Weed Control Board =====
There is hereby created a Utah County Weed Control Board under the Utah Noxious Weed Act. The County Commission shall appoint no less than three (3) nor more than five (5) appointed members. The chair of the County Commission shall appoint one member of the County Commission who shall act as a coordinator between the County and the Utah County Weed Control Board. At least two (2) members of the board shall be farmers or ranchers whose primary source of income is derived from production agriculture. Members are appointed to four (4) year terms of office and serve with or without compensation as determined by the County Commission. Members may be removed for cause and any vacancy that occurs on the Utah County Weed Control Board shall be filled by appointment for the unexpired term of the vacated member.


===== 7.11.050 Authority Of Utah County Weed Control Board =====
The Utah County Weed Control Board is responsible, under the general direction of the County Commission, for the formulation and implementation of a county-wide coordinated noxious weed control program designed to prevent and control noxious weeds within the County. The Utah County Weed Control Board is required, under the general direction of the County Commission, to cooperate with other county weed control boards to prevent and control the spread of noxious weeds.


===== 7.11.060 Authority Of Commission To Designate County Noxious Weeds =====
The County Commission may declare a particular weed or competitive plant, not appearing on the state noxious weed list, a County noxious weed within the County. The County Commission may petition the Commissioner of Agriculture for removal of a particular noxious weed from the state noxious weed list after first conducting a public hearing that was duly noticed.


===== 7.11.070 Authority To Create Weed Control Supervisor =====
The County Commission may employ one or more weed control supervisors qualified to:
 detect and treat noxious weeds; and direct the weed control program for the Utah County Weed Control Board. The County Commission shall prescribe the terms and conditions of the employment.


===== 7.11.080 Duties Of Weed Control Supervisor =====
Under the direction of the Utah County Weed Control Board, the weed control supervisor shall:
 examine all land under the jurisdiction of the Utah County Weed Control Board to determine whether the Utah Noxious Weed Act and the rules adopted by the Department have been met; compile data on infested areas; consult and advise upon matters pertaining to the best and most practical method of noxious weed control and prevention; render assistance and direction for the most effective control and prevention; investigate violations of this chapter and the Utah Noxious Weed Act; enforce noxious weed controls within the County; and perform any other duties required by the Utah County Weed Control Board.


===== 7.11.090 Annual Notice Of Noxious Weeds =====
Before May 1 of each year, the Utah County Weed Control Board shall post a general notice of the noxious weeds within the County and publish the notice as required in Utah Code § 4-17-109. HISTORY Amended by Ord. 2025-168 Updated Annual Notice of Noxious Weeds on 2/12/2025


===== 7.11.100 Authority Of Utah County Weed Control Board To Provide Notice Of Violation =====
If the Utah County Weed Control Board determines that a particular property within the county requires prompt and definite attention to prevent or control noxious weeds, the board shall serve the owner or the person in possession of the property, personally or by certified mail, a notice specifying when and what action is required to be taken on the property. Methods of prevention or control may include definite systems of tillage, cropping, use of chemicals, and use of livestock. An owner or person in possession of property who fails to take action to control or prevent the spread of noxious weeds as specified in the notice is maintaining a public nuisance.


===== 7.11.110 Authority Of The County To Control Or Prevent The Spread Of Noxious Weeds And Seek Reimbursement From Property Owner =====
In accordance with the Utah Noxious Weed Act, the County has the authority to do the following:
 If the owner or person in possession of the property fails to take action to control or prevent the spread of noxious weeds within five working days after the property is declared a public nuisance, the County may, after reasonable notification, enter the property, without the consent of the owner or the person in possession, and perform any work necessary, consistent with sound weed prevention and control practices to control the weeds. If the County controls weeds on a piece of property, as described in Subsection A, and seeks reimbursement from the property owner of record or the person in possession of the property, the County shall send the property owner or person in possession of the property: a documented description of the expenses; and a demand for payment within thirty (30) days of the day on which the weed control took place.
 The property owner of record or the person in possession of the property, as the case may be, shall reimburse the County for the County’s expense within ninety (90) days after receipt of the demand for payment, as described in Subsection B2. If the demand for payment is not paid within ninety (90) days after receipt, the charges become a lien against the property and are collectible by the County Treasurer at the time general property taxes are collected.


===== 7.11.120 Appeal Process For Disputing A Notice Of Violation =====
Any person served with notice to control noxious weeds may request a hearing to appeal the terms of the notice before the Utah County Weed Control Board within ten (10) days of receipt of such notice. The person may appeal the decision of the Utah County Weed Control Board to the County Commission within ten (10) days of receipt of the Utah County Weed Control Board’s decision. In accordance with Utah law, any person served with notice to control noxious weeds who has had a hearing before both the Utah County Weed Control Board and the County Commission may further appeal the decision of the County Commission by filing a written notice of appeal with a court of competent jurisdiction.


===== 7.12 Unreasonable Noise =====
7.12.010 Declaration Of Intent, Policy, And Scope 7.12.020 Definitions 7.12.030 Excessive Sound Levels 7.12.040 Monitoring And Enforcement 7.12.050 Violations


===== 7.12.010 Declaration Of Intent, Policy, And Scope =====
It is declared to be the intent of the County, in the exercise of its police power, to prohibit unnecessary, excessive and annoying sound levels from all sources where such will negatively impact users of adjoining property. At certain levels, sounds are detrimental to the health and welfare of the citizenry, and, in the public interest, shall by systematically proscribed. It is the purpose of this chapter to prescribe standards for and to provide an effective and readily available remedy for violations of this chapter. The provisions of this chapter and the remedies contained herein shall be cumulative and are not intended to replace any otherwise available remedies for public, private, or mixed nuisance, or any other civil or criminal remedies available. The scope of the provisions of this chapter shall be the unincorporated area of the County.


===== 7.12.020 Definitions =====
All terminology used in this chapter and not elaborated upon in the definitions in this section shall be in conformance with applicable American National Standards Institute publications. For the purpose of the administration and enforcement of this chapter, certain words and phrases are defined as follows:

"Cyclically varying noise" means any sound which varies in sound level so that the same level or nearly the same level of sound is obtained repetitively at spaced intervals of time. Example: Back-up beeper on heavy equipment.

"Decibel" means the customary logarithmic and dimensionless unit of measures used in describing the amplitude of sound. Decibel is abbreviated herein as "dB".

"Impulse noise" means a noise with a duration of two (2) seconds or less. Example: a gunshot. "Intermittent noise" is a noise similar to a cyclically varying noise but with an irregular interval and a continuous duration of six (6) minutes or less for high level sound levels. Example: a motor vehicle passing a fixed location

"Noise Source" means any instrument or device for amplifying sound, or anything which
produces, reproduces, or amplifies sound. The term shall include multiple sources of sound.

"Sound pressure level" means the sound level measured with a sound level meter using the A-weighting network. The standard notation or abbreviation is "dB(A)".


===== 7.12.030 Excessive Sound Levels =====
Except as provided in Subsections E or F of this section, no person shall do any of the following which makes sound in excess of the levels specified in this section: operate any type of vehicle, machine, instrument, or other device; carry on any activity; or promote or facilitate the carrying on of any activity.
 Sound from a moving vehicular source operated on a public right-of-way shall not exceed eighty decibels on the A-weighting scale (80 dB(A)), as measured at a distance at least twenty-five feet (25') from said vehicle located in the right-of-way. Exception : The maximum sound level shall be eighty-eight decibels (88 dB(A)) for vehicles on State Highways and on county roads adopted by a resolution of the County Commission as arterial roads. Sound from any source, other than a vehicle operated on a public right-of-way, shall not exceed the levels stated in the table below when measured off-site (meaning measured upon the property owned by someone other than the owner of the property from which the sound was emitted). The zone designations refer to the zoning districts as identified in Chapter 4 of the Utah County Zoning Ordinance and on the Utah County Zone Map.
 The limits in each zone prescribed by this section are set forth in the following table: Zoning district in which the property lies were the sound is received Maximum number of decibels (dB(A)) permitted between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. Maximum number of decibels (dB(A)) permitted between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Residential Zones: RA-5, RR-5, TR-5, and CE-2 55 dB(A) 50 dB(A) Commercial Zones: NC-1 and HS-1 65 dB(A) 60 dB(A) Industrial & Other Zones: I-1, CE-1, M&G-1, and A-40 80 dB(A) 80 dB(A) Exception : Sound from construction work at a site for which a current building permit has been issued and is in effect shall be deemed to be received in an industrial district during the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. Under no circumstances shall amplified sound be considered as construction work activity, nor shall the period of this exception exceed one (1) year. Sound from a source regulated by this subsection : Sound from a source on private property shall be measured at or inside the property line of property owned by a person or entity other than the person or entity owning the property on which the sound is produced. Sound from a source on public parks, County-approved shooting ranges, or other public property (other than roads, which are treated in Subsection B) shall be measured at a distance of twenty-five (25) feet from the source of the sound, or at the property line or inside the property which adjoins the public property. For the purposes of this subsection, a leasehold shall be deemed a property and its boundary shall be deemed a property line. All sound measurements shall me made on a sound level meter which meets ANSI specification S 1.4-1974 for Type I or Type II equipment. The manufacturer's published indication of compliance with such specifications is prima facie evidence of compliance with this subsection. It is a specific defense to a charge of violating this chapter that: the sound was made by an authorized emergency vehicle which was responding to a call or acting in time of emergency; the sound was made within the terms of a temporary event such as a parade, fireworks display, or other event for which a permit and exemption was issued by the County Commission as being in the public interest, and the conditions of such permit were being complied with; the sound was made by farm animals or by the normal day or night operation of farm equipment; the sound was made by the sounding or a horn of a vehicle as a warning signal of imminent danger or the sounding of any warning device required by law; the sound was made on property owned by the Federal or state and was made by an activity of that governmental entity (or those under contract with the Federal or state government to carry out such activity); or the sound was made under the auspices of a variance issued by the County Commission or its designee to grant noise ordinance variances, and was made within the terms and conditions of such variance. To grant a variance the County Commission or the designee must find: the facts of the specific variance will result in no undue harm or loss to other parties; the best available sound control technologies have been employed and the sound still exceeds the standards stated above; no reasonable alternative exists for person or entity producing the sound; and conditions or mitigation measures are required as a part of the variance approval which are sufficient to protect the interests of the public. The following existing shooting ranges are specifically exempted from the restrictions and violations contained in this chapter: Utah County Shooting Range, 12771 S. (6431 E.) US Highway 89; Western Range Management Range, 395 S. 18159 W.; Utah Division of Wildlife Resources/Pacific States Rifle Club Shooting Range, 4896 E. Hobble Creek Canyon Road; Goshen Dam Sporting Clays Shotgun Shooting Range, 11209 W. US Highway 6; Beer Creek Farms Shotgun Shooting Range, 5500 W. 6400 W; and Wild Wings Hunting & Sporting Clays Club Shooting Range, 3446 S. 200 W.


===== 7.12.040 Monitoring And Enforcement =====
The Utah County Community Development Department is appointed to monitor compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Either department personnel or contractors doing building inspection or other work for the department may perform the monitoring work. If a violation of the provisions this chapter is discovered during monitoring activities, the Director of Community Development or designee may refer the matter to the County Attorney for legal action.


===== 7.12.050 Violations =====
Each offense of violation of this chapter constitutes a separate and distinct violation. For a continuous sound, each day of violation of this chapter constitutes a separate and distinct violation. Violations shall be a class B misdemeanor. The County Attorney may also seek civil action to abate or enjoin the violation, or to obtain whatever other remedy or penalty the Court may deem appropriate.


===== 7.13 Utah County Criminal Justice Coordinating Council =====
7.13.010 Definitions 7.13.020 Establishment 7.13.030 Duties 7.13.040 Authorization To Form A Multi-County Criminal Justice Coordinating Council


===== 7.13.010 Definitions =====
"Council" means the Utah County Criminal Justice Coordinating Council created in UCC 7.13.020.
 "Designating entity" means the entity, County department or department head, or group specified in UCC 7.13.020B who designates an individual to fill a position on the Council. "State Commission" means the State Commission on Criminal and Juvenile Justice created in Utah Code § 63M-7-201.


===== 7.13.020 Establishment =====
There is hereby created the Utah County Criminal Justice Coordinating Council, as mandated by Utah Code § 17E-2-201. The Council shall include: one County Commissioner, who shall serve as the chair of the council; the County Sheriff or designee; one chief of police of a municipality within the County or designee; the County Attorney or designee; one public defender or attorney who provides public defense within the County; one district court judge, as designated by the presiding Judge of the Fourth District Court of the State of Utah; one justice court judge in the County; one representative from the Division of Adult Probation and Parole within the Department of Corrections; one representative from the local mental health authority within the County, as designated by the Director of Wasatch Behavioral Health; and one individual who is: a crime victim; or a victim advocate, as defined in Utah Code § 77-38-403. The Council may include, as appointed at the Council's discretion: an individual representing: local government; human services programs; higher education; peer support services; workforce services; local housing services; mental health or substance use disorder providers; a healthcare organization within the county; a local homeless council; family counseling and support groups; or organizations that work with families of incarcerated individuals; or an individual with lived experiences in the criminal justice system. Appointment and Bylaws. Council Members shall be appointed by the designating entity for a term of three (3) years, or until replaced by the designating entity, whichever is sooner. If a Council Member is no longer able to serve on the Council, the designating entity shall appoint a replacement as soon as possible. That replacement's term shall commence a new three (3) year term. Council Members may serve an unlimited number of terms so long as the meet they qualifications set forth herein. The Council may, by majority consent and in accordance with applicable law, create bylaws to govern the administration and operations of the Council. Council Members representing each designating entity in Subsection B shall be self-selected from the designating entity. The individual representing Subsection Bl0 may be designated or recommended from the 4th District Court District Victims' Right Committee, as established in Utah Code § 77-35-5.


===== 7.13.030 Duties =====
The Council shall develop and implement a strategic plan for the County's criminal justice system that includes: mapping of all systems, resources, assets, and services within the County's criminal justice system; a plan for data sharing across the county's or counties' criminal justice system; recidivism reduction objectives; and community reintegration goals.
 The Council may be assisted by the State Commission in the development of a strategic plan. Before November 30 of each year, the Council shall provide a written report to the State Commission regarding: the implementation of a strategic plan described in Subsection A; and any data on the impact of the Council on the criminal justice system in the County.


===== 7.13.040 Authorization To Form A Multi-County Criminal Justice Coordinating Council =====
As authorized by Utah Code § 17E-2-20l(l)(a)(ii), the County Commission may invite, in writing, other counties within the Utah 4th Judicial District to join the Council. If one or more counties agrees to join the Council, the County Commissioners shall approve, by resolution, the number of council members each joining county will have in addition to the County council members set forth in UCC 7.13.020B-C. The County Commission may specify the designating entity from which the joining county may select a council member. If any other county joins the Council, the Council shall be renamed the Utah County Joint Criminal Justice Coordinating Council. An invited county must formally accept an invitation to join in the Utah County Joint Criminal Justice Coordinating Council by resolution, which resolution shall set forth that the county is subjecting itself to the jurisdiction of this Chapter.
 8 VEHICLES / TRAFFIC / ROADWAYS / DEVELOPMENT 8.01 Roads And Highways 8.02 Acquisition Of Property For Highway Purposes 8.03 Obstructions And Encroachments 8.04 Sidewalks 8.05 Excavations 8.06 Road Access Permits 8.07 State Vehicle Regulations Adopted 8.08 Traffic-Control Devices 8.09 Trespass By Vehicle 8.10 Parking 8.11 County Governmental Complex Parking 8.12 Civil Violations Procedure 8.13 Local Option Transportation Corridor Preservation Fee 8.14 Public Land Survey Corners 8.15 Planning 8.16 Constitutional Taking Guidelines 8.17 Planning Area Advisory Planning Commission 8.18 Building And Safety Codes 8.19 Stormwater 8.20 Property Identification And Addressing


===== 8.01 Roads And Highways =====
8.01.010 Definitions 8.01.020 Violations 8.01.030 Plats And Descriptions 8.01.040 Locating Of Lines 8.01.050 Limitations On Use Of Vehicles 8.01.060 Liability For Damages 8.01.070 Recovery Of Damages


===== 8.01.010 Definitions =====
All public highways, roads, and streets within the county not designated as State Highways which are situated outside of incorporated cities and towns and such highways, roads, and streets situated within incorporated cities and towns that have been designated as county roads and are located on property under the control of a federal agency and constructed or maintained by the County under agreement with the appropriate federal agency shall be known as county roads.


===== 8.01.020 Violations =====
Any person violating any of the provisions of this title shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor, unless otherwise specified in this code or state law. Each person found guilty of violation shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for every day during which any violation of this title is committed or continued by such person.


===== 8.01.030 Plats And Descriptions =====
It shall be the duty of the County Commission to determine all county roads existing in the county, and to prepare and keep current plats and specific descriptions of the same and of such other highways as the board may from time to time locate upon public lands, which shall be kept on file in the office of the County Clerk or Recorder.


===== 8.01.040 Locating Of Lines =====
The owner, agent for, or occupier of land abutting on a county road or public highway may make application to the County Commission to have located the curb line or the fence line or both, for the purpose of erecting fences or buildings along the same, but outside of the full width of such highway. The County Surveyor shall establish said lines, upon application granted by the County Commission, provided said owner, agent, or occupier does not encroach upon the highway.


===== 8.01.050 Limitations On Use Of Vehicles =====
The County Commission may by rule or ordinance prescribe procedures and criteria which prohibit the operation of any vehicle or impose restrictions on the weight of a vehicle upon any highway under its jurisdiction. Any prohibition or restriction hereunder may be imposed if an engineering inspection concludes that due to deterioration caused by climatic conditions a highway will be seriously damaged or destroyed unless certain vehicles are prohibited or vehicle weights are restricted. Upon said closure or restriction under Subsection A, the County shall erect signs citing the provisions of the rule and/or ordinance which imposes the restriction or closure at each end of the portion of the highway affected. The restriction is effective only when the signs are erected and maintained. Any person who violates any restriction or closure imposed under the authority of this section is guilty of an infraction.


===== 8.01.060 Liability For Damages =====
Any person driving any vehicle, object, or contrivance upon any county highway or highway structure shall be liable for all damages which said highway or structure may sustain as a result of any illegal operation, driving or moving of such vehicle, object, or contrivance. Whenever such driver is not the owner of such vehicle, object, or contrivance but is so operating the same with the express or implied permission of said owner, then said owner and driver shall be jointly and severally liable for any such damage. Such damage may be recovered in a civil action brought by the County.


===== 8.01.070 Recovery Of Damages =====
Any person who by any means willfully or negligently injures or damages any county highway, highway equipment or road sign shall be liable for such damage. Such damage may be recovered in a civil action brought by the County Commission.


===== 8.02 Acquisition Of Property For Highway Purposes =====
8.02.010 Contributions 8.02.020 Public Use Constitutes Dedication 8.02.030 Means Of Acquisition 8.02.040 Interpretation 8.02.050 Sale Of Highway Property - Authorized 8.02.060 Sale Of Highway Property - Conveyance


===== 8.02.010 Contributions =====
The County Commission is authorized to contribute real or personal property to the Utah Department of Transportation for state highway purposes.


===== 8.02.020 Public Use Constitutes Dedication =====
A highway shall be deemed to have been dedicated and abandoned to the use of the public when it has been continuously used as a public thoroughfare for a period of ten (10) years or more.


===== 8.02.030 Means Of Acquisition =====
The County Commission is authorized to acquire any real property or interests therein, deemed necessary for temporary, present, or reasonable future county highway purposes by gift, agreement, exchange, purchase, condemnation, or otherwise.


===== 8.02.040 Interpretation =====
For the purposes of this chapter, the words "highway purposes" shall include but shall not be limited to the following:
 rights-of-way, including those necessary for county highways within cities and towns; the construction, reconstruction, relocation, improvement, maintenance, and mitigation from the effects of these activities on county highways and such other highways, roads and streets as may be under the control of the Commission; limited-access facilities, including rights of access, air, light and view, and frontage and service roads to highways; adequate drainage in connection with any highway, cut, fill, or channel change, and the maintenance thereof; weighing stations, shops, offices, storage buildings and yards, and road maintenance or construction sites; road material sites, sites for the manufacture of road materials, and access roads to such sites; the maintenance of an unobstructed view of any portion of a highway to promote the safety of the traveling public; the placement of traffic signals, directional signs, and other signs, fences, curbs, barriers, and obstructions for the convenience of the traveling public; the construction and maintenance of storm sewers, sidewalks, and highway illumination; the construction and maintenance of livestock highways; the construction and maintenance of roadside rest areas adjacent to or near any highway; and the mitigation of impacts from transportation projects.


===== 8.02.050 Sale Of Highway Property - Authorized =====
Whenever the County Commission determines that any real property or interest therein, heretofore or hereafter acquired for county highway purposes, is no longer necessary for such purpose, the County Commission may lease, sell, exchange, or otherwise dispose of such real property or interest therein. Any such property may be sold at private or public sale and the proceeds thereof shall be turned over to the County Auditor and credited to the County Highway Fund. In the disposition of land at any such private sale, first consideration may be given to the original grantor or the original grantor’s successor in interest.


===== 8.02.060 Sale Of Highway Property - Conveyance =====
Any deed made and delivered by the County Commission pursuant to this chapter without specific reservations therein shall be deemed a conveyance of all the County's right, title, and interest in such real property.


===== 8.03 Obstructions And Encroachments =====
8.03.010 Generally 8.03.020 Poles, Posts And Fences 8.03.030 Bridges, Ditches, Water And Waterways


===== 8.03.010 Generally =====
Enforcement : If any person places, constructs, or maintains any approach road, driveway, pole, pipeline, conduit, sewer, ditch, culvert, billboard, advertising sign, or any other structure or object of any kind or character within the right-of-way of any county road, without first obtaining permission from the County Commission, the Commissioners may: remove such installation from the right-of-way or require such person to remove the same; give written notice to such person to remove such installation from the right-of-way; such notice may be served either by personal service or by mailing the notice to the person by registered mail and posting a copy thereof on such installation for a period of ten (10) days; and if such installation is not removed within ten (10) days after the notice is complete, the Commission may remove the same at the expense of the person and recover costs and expenses, and also the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) for each day the same remained within the right-of-way after notice was complete, in an action for that purpose; or if such person disputes or denies the existence of such installation, or refuses to remove or permit its removal, the Commission may bring an action to abate the same as a nuisance; and if judgment is recovered by the Commission, there shall also be recovered, in addition to having the same abated, the costs of action and the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) for every day such nuisance remained within the right-of-way after notice was given for its removal in the manner provided in Subsection A2.
 Vehicles obstructing highway : No person shall place or leave, or cause to be placed or left, any wagon, automobile, or vehicle, or other thing, upon any public or other highway in such a way as to obstruct travel, or to endanger property or persons passing upon such highway.
 Vehicles, building material or other similar things may be placed temporarily on public highways in such manner as not to impede, endanger or obstruct ordinary traffic, but no such vehicles, building material or other obstructions shall be permitted to remain on any such highway contrary to instructions from the County Commission.
 Gravel and foreign matter on highway : It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor-propelled vehicle or any other type of conveyance upon any public road, highway, or thoroughfare in the county, from which sand, gravel, rocks or other materials fall or are discharged, unless such person immediately stops and removes any and all such sand, gravel, rocks or other materials from the road, highway or thoroughfare. This subsection shall not apply to those situations where sand, gravel, rocks or any other materials are properly discharged or unloaded in connection with construction activities on said road, highway or thoroughfare by authorized persons. Rights-of-way—Excavations, structures, or objects prohibited : No right-of-way of any county road shall be dug up or excavated and no approach road, driveway, pole, pipeline, conduit, sewer, culvert, or other structure or object of any kind or character shall be placed, constructed, or maintained within any such right-of-way except as permitted by the County Commission. Rights-of-way—Advertising : It shall be unlawful for any person to place any form of advertising along any county road within three hundred (300) feet of such highway except upon land in private ownership located in a zone which permits such advertising and situated along such highway, without first receiving a permit to do so from the County Commission or designee. Tree lines : On any county highway, regardless of width, it shall be unlawful to plant trees within the road right-of-way or within four (4) feet of said right-of-way boundary lines, except where approved specifically by resolution of the County Commission. Trees deemed obstructions : It is hereby made the duty of the Public Works Director to treat as obstructions to public highways under Subsection A all trees hereafter planted or placed in violation of the terms of Subsection F.


===== 8.03.020 Poles, Posts And Fences =====
Violations deemed obstructions : It is hereby made the duty of the Public Works Director to treat as obstructions to public highways under UCC 8.03.010 Subsection A all posts, poles, fences or other obstructions set or placed in violation of the terms of this section. Restrictions on location : It shall be unlawful for any person to set, place, keep or maintain any pole, post, fence, or like obstruction upon or along any public highway, road, street, avenue, lane, alley, trail, or sidewalk in the county, except as provided in this section. Utility poles : It shall be unlawful for any person to set or place any utility pole upon any highway in the county except in accordance with County specifications established by the County Commission; and it is hereby made the duty of the Public Works Director to furnish such specifications to all persons upon request. Permission required : No telephone, telegraph, electric light, or other pole for carrying wires or to convey electric current shall be set on any public highway in the county without permission or a grant of right-of-way therefor being first obtained from the County Commission. Mailboxes : Posts for carrying or holding mailboxes shall be set a sufficient distance back so as not to obstruct the street or highway traffic. Signs : It shall be unlawful to place signs within the right-of-way of any highway in the county except for official signs for traffic regulation, control, and instruction. Fences : Fence posts may be set along a fence line, which is hereby designated as the distance from the center of any highway not less than half of the surveyed and platted width of said highway, no public highway in the county being regarded as surveyed and platted less than fifty-six (56) feet in width; and it shall be unlawful to place or maintain any building nearer any highway than the distance specified in the Land Use Ordinance of the County. Reservation of County use : It is hereby provided that any grant or permission hereafter given to set telephone, telegraph or electric light poles upon any of the public highways in the county, shall be made subject to the reservation, whether or not said reservation is specifically set forth in the grant or permission, that whenever the County Commission shall deem it necessary for the public good or service, the County shall have the right to place crossarms on said poles, to string one (1) set of wires thereon for furnishing electric current and light to the County, and to use and operate the same during the period of such grant or permission, with reasonable regard for the rights of said grantee.


===== 8.03.030 Bridges, Ditches, Water And Waterways =====
Violations deemed obstructions : It is hereby made the duty of the Public Works Director to treat as obstructions under UCC 8.03.010 Subsection A any bridges, flumes, pipes or ditches placed or constructed in violation of the terms of this section. Restrictions on location : It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, place, set, keep or maintain any bridge, sewer, well, or spill, or like obstruction, upon, in, under or along any public highway, road, street, avenue, lane, alley, trail, or sidewalk in the county, except as herein designated. Bridges : Bridges over any ditch, waterway or opening across any sidewalk shall not be less than the full width of such sidewalk. Bridges over any ditch, waterway or opening across any roadway section of any highway, trail, or sidewalk shall not be narrower than the full width of the roadway from the gutter line on either side; provided that the County Commission may grant permission for temporary bridges of narrower dimensions than those herein indicated; but in no case shall any permission or order be given for a bridge less than twenty (20) feet in width, to be used as a public roadway. Whenever possible all bridges shall be set square with the road or sidewalk, and their coverings shall be made to conform to the grade of the road or sidewalk as fixed by the County Commission or designee. All bridges shall be of substantial material and construction, and the plans and specifications shall be approved by the Public Works Director and shall be satisfactory to the County Commission. Location of sewers : Sewers shall be laid in accordance with County standards established by the County Commission or designee. Ditches and waterways : All ditches, canals, or waterways constructed across or over any sidewalk or roadway shall be securely bridged or flumed; the bridges or flumes shall conform to the regulations provided in this code. No ditch, canal, or waterway shall be made or constructed on or across any sidewalk or roadway except in conformity with the established grade thereof, provided that when a change in the grade becomes necessary for the convenience of any ditch, canal, or waterway, the changed grade shall be done by or at the expense of the person constructing the ditch, canal, or waterway, and shall be completed to the satisfaction of the County Commission. All ditches, canals, or waterways running along any highway shall be made in accordance with County standards as established by the County Commission or designee; and it shall be unlawful to construct or place any ditch, canal or waterway along any sidewalk, or along any highway in the county except where approved by the County Commission or designee. Headgates : Headgates for the control of irrigating or other water shall be placed under the direction of the Public Works Director. Water mains : Water mains for carrying water along or across any highway may be laid by permission or upon order of the County Commission or designee, at a sufficient depth to keep the roadway secure; and when laid along any highway shall be located in accordance with County standards and under the direction of the Public Works Director. No excavation for laying water mains or pipes shall be made in any public highway without first obtaining a permit to do so. Wells : Artesian or other wells may be sunk on any highway by permission or order of the Commission, provided they are covered and piped beyond the fence line. Repairing bridges and flumes : It shall be unlawful for any person conveying water through or along any ditch, canal, or waterway along or across any highway to permit any flume, bridge, etc., under the control of or owned by such person to become out of repair, and to remain so after attention has been called thereto, longer than is necessary to institute the work of repairs thereon, which work shall be diligently prosecuted to completion. Water upon highway : It shall be unlawful for any person to permit water from any ditch, stream, or well to run upon any public highway in a manner to damage or interfere with the proper use of same, or to cause pools of water to stand thereon, to the annoyance or injury of the public.


===== 8.04 Sidewalks =====
8.04.010 Construction To Conform To Grade 8.04.020 Improvements On Or Near Sidewalks 8.04.030 Obstruction Of Sidewalks 8.04.040 Vehicles Or Animals On Sidewalks


===== 8.04.010 Construction To Conform To Grade =====
It shall be unlawful for any person to lay, build or construct any sidewalk upon any highway in the county, except upon specifications furnished by the Public Works Director in accordance with County standards established by the County Commission or designee. It is hereby made the duty of the Public Works Director to keep as records in the director’s office plats or maps showing the grades as fixed, for reference, and for furnishing specifications therefrom, the fee provided by law to be charged for such specifications and to be paid into the County Treasury.


===== 8.04.020 Improvements On Or Near Sidewalks =====
It shall be unlawful for any person, or agent or employee of such person, to construct, place, keep or maintain upon or across any sidewalk in the county any porch, platform, or other structure, except at the grade thereof; and where any such platform, porch, flume, pipe, or structure is below the grade, it shall be covered to grade; and such platform, porch, flume, pipe, or structure shall be kept in good repair by the party in whose interest it is constructed or used, so as not to be dangerous to pedestrians or an obstruction to the safe and ordinary use of the sidewalk.


===== 8.04.030 Obstruction Of Sidewalks =====
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, place, keep or maintain upon or across any sidewalk in the county any open ditch, flume, conduit or waterway, or any headgate, log, building material, vehicle, or railway without suitable crossing for pedestrians or other obstruction; and it shall be unlawful to pile any dirt, or other material, or make any other defacement on any sidewalk so as to interfere with the ordinary use thereof or vary from the grade of such sidewalk where the same has been fixed by the County Commission or designee.


===== 8.04.040 Vehicles Or Animals On Sidewalks =====
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or place any animal, vehicle, or other thing upon or along any sidewalk, except in crossing such sidewalk to or from abutting property, or to permit the same to remain on or across any sidewalk in a way to impede or obstruct the ordinary use thereof.


===== 8.05 Excavations =====
8.05.010 In General 8.05.020 Permit 8.05.030 Performance Standards In Addition To Utah County Development Standards


===== 8.05.010 In General =====
Definitions : For the purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them.
 "Excavation" means any opening in the surface of a public place made in any manner whatsoever, except an opening into a lawful structure below the surface of a public place, the top of which is flush with the adjoining surface and so constructed as to permit frequent openings without injury or damage to the public place.
 "Facility" means pipe, pipeline, tube, main, service, trap, vent, vault, manhole, meter, gauge, regulator, valve, conduit, wire, tower, pole, pole line, anchor, cable, junction box, transformer, or any other material, structure of object of any kind or character, whether enumerated herein or not, which is or may be lawfully constructed, left, placed or maintained in, upon, along, across, under or over any public place.
 "Public place" means any public street, way, place, alley, sidewalk, park, square, plaza, or any other similar public property controlled by the County and dedicated to public use. "Substructure" means any pipe, conduit, duct, tunnel, manhole, vault, buried cable or wire, or any other similar structure located below the surface of any public place. "Utility" means a private company and/or corporation or municipal department engaged in providing a particular service to the general public. 
 Enforcement : The County Engineer shall make such inspections as are reasonably necessary in the enforcement of this chapter. The County Engineer shall have the authority to promulgate and cause to be enforced such rules and regulations as may be reasonably necessary to enforce and carry out the intent of this chapter. All work shall be performed in accordance with the procedures prescribed in the "Utah County Development Standards." Liability of County : The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed as imposing upon the County or any official or employee thereof any liability or responsibility for damages to any person injured by the performance of any excavation work for which an excavation permit is issued hereunder; nor shall the County or any official or employee thereof be deemed to have assumed any such liability or responsibility by reason of inspections authorized here under the issuance of any permit or the approval of any excavation work. Maintenance of drawings : Every person owning, using, controlling, or having an interest in substructures under the surface of any public place used for the purpose of supplying or conveying gas, electricity, communication impulse, water, steam, ammonia or oil in the county, shall file with the County Engineer (or have available upon request) a map or set of maps each drawn to scale showing in detail the plan location, size and kind of installation, if known, of all substructures, except service lines designed to serve single properties beneath the surface of the public place belonging to, used by or under the control of such person having any interest, and shall file with the County Engineer annually at a time specified by him, a corrected map or set of maps each drawn to scale including all installations made during the previous year to and including the last day of such year; provided, however, that a public utility owner may at its option provide corrected atlas sheets at more frequent intervals. Emergency action : Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the making of such excavations as may be necessary for the preservation of life or property or for the location of trouble in conduit or pipe, or for making repairs, provided that the person making such excavation shall apply to the County Engineer for such a permit on the first working day after such work is commenced.


===== 8.05.020 Permit =====
Required : No person shall make any excavation or fill any excavation in any public place without first obtaining a permit to do so from the County Engineer except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
 Annual permits : The County Engineer may issue an annual blanket permit for the purpose of placing, replacing, or repairing any facility within a public place and other miscellaneous excavations approved by the County Engineer to the following: a public utility regulated by the Public Utilities Commission of the State; a person holding a franchise from the County; and the water, electric and sewer departments of the County.
 Application : No excavation permit shall be issued unless a written application for the issuance of an excavation permit is submitted to the County Engineer. The written application shall state the name and address of the applicant, the location and dimensions of the installation or removal and the approximate size of the excavation to be made, the purposes of the facility, including backfilling said excavation and removing all obstructions, materials and debris. Fee—issuance : The application for a permit required by the provisions of this section, with the payment of a fee specified in the Utah County Government Fee Schedule when approved by the County Engineer, shall constitute and be deemed issuance of the required permit. The fee shall be doubled if excavation commences before a permit is issued except as provided in UCC 8.05.010 Subsection D. Deposits—When required : The application for an excavation permit to perform excavation work under this chapter shall be accompanied with a cash deposit made to the County at the rate specified in the Utah County Government Fee Schedule. Where excavations are made by public utility companies operating under a franchise issued by the County or under the supervision of the public utilities commission of utilities operated by governmental agencies, a permit may be granted without making such deposit.
 Deposits—Use : The County Engineer may use any or all of any deposits required by this section to pay the cost of any work the Public Works Department performs to restore or maintain the public place as herein provided in the event the permittee fails to perform such work in which the amount refunded to the permittee shall be reduced by the amount thus expended by the County Engineer.


===== 8.05.030 Performance Standards In Addition To Utah County Development Standards =====
Barriers and warning devices required :
 It shall be the duty of every person cutting or making an excavation in or upon any public place to place and maintain barriers and warning devices necessary for safety of the general public. Barriers, warning signs, lights, etc., shall conform to the requirements of the County Engineer. Warning lights shall be flares, torches, lanterns, electrical markers or flashers used to indicate a hazard to traffic from sunset of each day to sunrise of the next day. Torches shall be open wick or flame flares or bombs generally used in connection with roadway repairs or construction and operating on kerosene or a similar fluid. Lanterns shall burn kerosene or a similar fluid and have clear red or ruby globes. Electrical markers or flashers shall emit light at sufficient intensity and frequency to be visible at a reasonable distance for safety. Reflectors or reflecting material may be used to supplement, but not replace, light sources. The County Engineer may restrict the use of lantern or open flame devices in fire hazard areas.
 Traffic conditions to be maintained : The permittee shall take appropriate measures to assure that during the performance of the excavation work, traffic conditions as near normal as possible shall be maintained at all times so as to minimize inconvenience to the occupants of the adjoining property and to the general public. Closing of streets and alleys : When traffic conditions permit, the County Engineer may, by written approval, permit the closing of streets and alleys to all traffic for a period of time prescribed by the County Engineer if in the County Engineer’s opinion it is necessary. The written approval of the County Engineer may require that the permittee give notification to various public agencies and to the general public. In such cases, such written approval shall not be valid until such notice is given. Warning signs : Warning signs shall be placed far enough in advance of the construction operation to alert traffic within a public street, and cones or other approved devices shall be placed to channel traffic in accordance with the instructions of the County Engineer. Relocation and protection of utilities : The permittee shall not interfere with any existing facility without the written consent of the County Engineer and the owner of the facility. If it becomes necessary to relocate an existing facility this shall be done by the owner. No facility owned by the County shall be moved to accommodate the permittee unless the cost of such work be borne by the permittee. The cost of moving privately owned facilities shall be similarly borne by the permittee unless it makes other arrangements with the person owning the facility. The permittee shall support and protect by timbers or otherwise all pipes, conduits, poles, wires or other apparatus which may be in any way affected by the excavation work, and do everything necessary to support, sustain and protect them under, over, along or across said work. The permittee shall secure approval of method of support and protection from the owner of the facility. In case any of said pipes, conduits, poles, wires or apparatus should be damaged, and for this purpose pipe coating or other encasement or devices are to be considered as part of a substructure, the permittee shall promptly notify the owner thereof. All damaged facilities shall be repaired by the agency or person owning them and the expense of such repairs shall be charged to the permittee. It is the intent of this subsection that the permittee shall assume all liability for damage to facilities and any resulting damage or injury to anyone because of such facility damage and such assumption of liability is a contractual obligation of the permittee. The only exception will be such instances where damage is exclusively due to the negligence of the owning utility. The County shall not be made a party to any action because of this subsection. The permittee shall inform itself as to the existence and location of all underground facilities and protect the same against damage.
 Protection of adjoining property : The permittee shall at all times and at the permittee’s own expense preserve and protect from injury any adjoining property by providing proper foundations and taking other measures suitable for the purpose. Where in the protection of such property it is necessary to enter upon private property for the purpose of taking appropriate protecting measures, the permittee shall obtain a license from the owner of such private property for such purpose and if he cannot obtain a license from such owner the County Engineer may authorize the permittee to enter the private premises solely for the purpose of making the property safe. The permittee shall, at the permittee’s own expense, shore up and protect all buildings, walls, fences or other property likely to be damaged during the progress of the excavation work and shall be responsible for all damage to public or private property or highways resulting from its failure properly to protect and carry out said work. Whenever it may be necessary for the permittee to trench through any lawn area, said area shall be reseeded or the sod shall be carefully cut and rolled and replaced after ditches have been backfilled as required in this chapter. All construction and maintenance work shall be done in a manner calculated to leave the lawn area clean of earth and debris and in a condition as nearly as possible to that which existed before such work began. The permittee shall not remove, even temporarily, any trees or shrubs which exist in parking strip areas without first obtaining the consent of the appropriate County department or County official having control of such property. Protection of watercourses :
 The permittee shall maintain all gutters free and unobstructed for the full depth of the adjacent curb and for at least one (1) foot in width from the face of such curb at the gutterline. Whenever a gutter crosses an intersecting street, an adequate waterway shall be provided and at all times maintained. The permittee shall make provisions to take care of all surplus water, muck, silt, slickings, or other runoff pumped from excavations or resulting from sluicing or other operations. The permittee shall be responsible for any damage resulting from its failure to so provide.
 The permittee shall make provisions to maintain existing irrigation ditches to assure continuity of water rights in the area of excavations.
 Care of excavated material : All material excavated from trenches and piled adjacent to the trench or in any street shall be piled and maintained in such manner as not to endanger those working in the trench, pedestrians or users of the streets, and so that as little inconvenience as possible is caused to those using streets and adjoining property. Where the confines of the area being excavated are too narrow to permit the piling of excavated material beside the trench, such as might be the case in a narrow alley, the County Engineer shall have the authority to require that the permittee haul the excavated material to a storage site and then rehaul it to the trench site at the time of backfilling. It shall be the permittee's responsibility to secure the necessary permission and make all necessary arrangements for all required storage and disposal sites. All material excavated shall be laid compactly along the side of the trench and kept trimmed so as to cause as little inconvenience as reasonably possible to vehicular and pedestrian traffic, or as specified by the County Engineer. Whenever necessary, in order to expedite the flow of traffic or to abate the dirt or dust nuisance, toe boards or bins may be required by the County Engineer to prevent the spreading of dirt into traffic lanes.
 Cleanup : As the excavation work progresses, all streets shall be thoroughly cleaned of all rubbish, excess earth, rock and other debris resulting from such work. All cleanup operations at the location of such excavation shall be accomplished at the expense of the permittee and shall be completed to the satisfaction of the County Engineer. From time to time, as may be ordered by the County Engineer and in any event immediately after completion of said work, the permittee shall, at the permittee’s own expense, clean up and remove all refuse and unused materials of any kind resulting from said work. Breaking through pavement : Heavy-duty pavement breakers may be prohibited by the County Engineer when the use endangers existing substructures or other property. Approved cutting of bituminous pavement surface ahead of excavations may be required by the County Engineer to confine pavement damage to the limits of the trench. Unstable pavement shall be removed over cave-outs and over-breaks and the subgrade shall be treated as the main trench. Pavement edges shall be trimmed to a vertical face and neatly aligned with the center line of the trench. Cutouts outside of the trench lines must be normal or parallel to the trench line. Boring or other methods to prevent cutting of new pavement shall be used whenever possible. The permittee shall not be required to repair pavement damage existing prior to excavation unless his cut results in small floating sections that may be unstable, in which case the permittee shall remove and pave the area.
 Backfilling : All backfilling shall be accomplished in accordance with the Utah County Development Standards. Restoration of surface by permittee : Immediately upon completion of the backfilling, temporary resurfacing of an excavation within a public place for the installation or removal of substructures must be completed. The County Engineer may require the permittee to permanently resurface that portion of the street surface damaged by the permittee's excavation, in which event resurfacing shall be of the same type and depth of existing pavement, however, asphalt shall not be less than two (2) inches in thickness and shall be subject to the inspection of the County Engineer, and shall be completed within a period of fourteen (14) days except where temporary resurfacing is placed or weather conditions do not permit immediate placement of permanent pavement. Restoration of surface by County : With respect to hard-surface roads, permanent resurfacing of excavations shall be required by the County Engineer. The paved surface of the backfill shall be covered with one (1) inch of bituminous temporary resurfacing material by the permittee where the backfill is whipped out by traffic. Such temporary paving material shall be cold mix, except that the permittee may use, or the County Engineer may require, hot mix. All temporary paving material shall conform closely enough to the level of the adjoining paving surface and shall be compacted so that it is hard enough and smooth enough to be safe for pedestrian travel over it as well as for vehicular traffic to pass safely over it at a legal rate of speed. The permittee shall maintain temporary paving for a period not exceeding fourteen (14) days after all backfilling is completed unless additional time is required by the County Engineer during cold weather, and shall keep the same safe for pedestrian and vehicular traffic until the excavation has been resurfaced with permanent paving by the Public Works Department, except that if it is not possible to maintain the surface of the temporary paving in a safe condition for pedestrian travel or vehicular traffic, then the permittee shall maintain barriers and lights where required herein. Maximum length of open trench : The maximum length of open trench permissible at any time shall be in accordance with existing ordinances or regulations or as may be specified by the County Engineer and no greater length shall be open for pavement removal, excavation, construction, backfilling, patching and all other operations without the written permission of the County Engineer. Prompt completion of work : After an excavation is commenced, the permittee shall prosecute with diligence and expediency all excavation work covered by the excavation permit and shall promptly complete such work and restore the street to its original condition, or as near as may be, so as not to obstruct the public place or travel thereon more than is reasonably necessary. Noise, dust, and debris : Each permittee shall conduct and carry out excavation work in such a manner as to avoid unnecessary inconvenience and annoyance to the general public and occupants of neighboring property. The permittee shall take appropriate measures to reduce to the fullest extent practicable in the performance of the excavation work, noise, dust and unsightly debris, and between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. shall not use except with the express written permission of the County Engineer or in the case of an emergency as herein otherwise provided, any tool, appliance or equipment producing noise of sufficient volume to disturb the sleep or repose of occupants of the neighboring property. Preservation of monuments : Any monument set for the purpose of locating or preserving the lines of any street or property subdivision, or a precise survey reference point, or a permanent survey benchmark within the county shall not be removed or disturbed or caused to be removed or disturbed without first obtaining permission in writing from the County Surveyor to do so. Permission to remove or disturb such monuments, reference points or benchmarks shall only be granted upon condition that the person applying for such permission shall pay all expenses incident to the proper replacement of this monument by the County Surveyor.


===== 8.06 Road Access Permits =====
8.06.010 In General 8.06.020 Permit 8.06.030 Standards 8.06.040 Enforcement


===== 8.06.010 In General =====
Authority : The provisions of this chapter are adopted under authority of Utah Code §§ 17-78-401, 17-78-405, and 72-7-102. Definitions : For the purpose of the chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them.

"Access" means the approach or utilization of a county road for ingress and egress between the road and adjacent roadside property or buildings.

"Building setback" means the perpendicular distance that a building is located from a road, either as expressed as the building to road right-of-way line distance or the building to road center line distance.

"Curb cut" means the area along a roadway where the curb is lowered to provide driveway access.

"Ditch" means the excavation, swale or conduit used to transport water for any purpose.

"Drainage" means surface flows of water resulting from storm water that is shed by roofs, driveways and roadway surfaces.

"Drainage facilities" means provisions for storm water disposal emanating from roofs, driveways and roadway surfaces.

"Driveway" means the entrance or means of vehicular access to a county road from adjacent property.

"Right-of-way" means real property or an interest in real property, usually in a strip, acquired for or devoted to a highway or road. 

"Right-of-way width" means the width of the road set aside for travel and road purposes, including the travel way, shoulders, borrow pit, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, safety islands, walk offsets and planter strips.

"Road dedication" means the transfer of fee title of land within the road right-of-way to the County, and the County's acceptance of such title for road purposes.

"Standard rights-of-way" means the road rights-of-way which are wide enough to meet minimum Utah County standards, including local roads, fifty-six (56) feet; collector roads sixty-six (66) feet; arterial roads, one hundred six (106) feet.
 Existing Driveways : Access to county roads by means of driveways in existence at the time of the effective date of this chapter may continue to the same extent and degree as before; any change in the driveway or the degree of use shall first require an access permit and compliance with the terms of this chapter.


===== 8.06.020 Permit =====
Access Permit Required : Upon the effective date of this chapter, no person or vehicle shall gain access de novo, or increase the extent and degree of access, to a county road except by a driveway or other means of access for which an access permit has been first issued by the County Engineer in accord with the terms of this chapter. Building Permit : The application for a building permit shall be deemed a concurrent request for an access permit for an increase in the extent and degree of access, if the access to such building is on an existing driveway entering a county road, or a concurrent application for an access permit for a driveway, if the access to such building is to be on a new driveway that is proposed to enter a county road. When a building permit is applied for, the County Building Inspector shall accept concurrent applications for access permits on forms provided by the County Engineer and transmit the completed application forms to the County Engineer for review. No building permit shall be issued until the access permit is approved and issued by the County Engineer. Application : No access permit shall be issued unless a written application for the same is first submitted to the County Engineer directly, or in the case of concurrent building and access permits listed in Subsection B, to the County Building Inspector. The application shall state the name and mailing address of the applicant, the street address of the place of proposed access, structural plans for the off-site improvements proposed, and plot plans showing driveway, fence, curbs, curb cuts, drainage facilities, ditches, building setbacks, and road dedication lines. Fee : A review fee, in the current amount as set by resolution of the County Commission, shall accompany each application for an access permit. Approval : The County Engineer shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny each application for an access permit according to the terms and standards of this chapter.


===== 8.06.030 Standards =====
General Standards : The County Engineer shall not issue an access permit except in compliance with the following standards: Right-of-way dedication : The portion of the road right-of-way lying between the road center line and the road boundary line adjacent to the applicant's property, shall be dedicated to the County along its entire interface with the applicant's property, and the width of said dedication shall be the standard right-of-way width for the local, collector or arterial class of road adopted by the County for such road. Driveway : No more than two (2) driveways, each measuring thirty (30) feet or less in width, shall be permitted to give access for any residential structure. No more than two (2) driveways, each measuring fifty (50) feet or less in width, shall be permitted for any other purpose of access, except that the County Engineer may permit acceleration and deceleration lanes to join the county road when necessary to provide safe access. Fences : Fences or sight-obstructing landscaping shall not be located within the road right-of-way. Curb-cuts : No curb cut shall be wider than thirty (30) feet when serving a residential structure, nor fifty (50) feet when serving any other purpose for access; the County Engineer may permit wider cuts when safety reasons require them for acceleration or deceleration lanes.
 Drainage : Drainage facilities shall be provided in the form of culverts, bridges, curbs, etc., engineered for the twenty-five (25)year storm at each driveway, designed according to the standards for public streets adopted by the County. Ditches : Driveways shall access county roads across ditches in pipes or culverts of standard design. No new open ditch shall be allowed within dedicated rights-of-way. Ditch companies must give their approval for all pipes placed in their ditches. Closeness of points of access : The driveways or other points giving access to a county road shall be no closer than six hundred (600) feet to one another on arterials, two hundred (200) feet on collectors, fifty (50) feet on local roads and ten (10) feet in subdivisions, except all properties may have at least one (1) point of access per parcel. Angle : The driveway gaining access to a county road must meet the road at an angle of from eighty (80) to ninety (90) degrees, except for county roads having opposing traffic lanes divided by a physical barrier and except for acceleration or deceleration lanes approved by the County Engineer for safety reasons. Building setback : Buildings shall be set back thirty (30) feet or more from a road right-of-way line or fifty (50) feet from a state road right-of-way line. If the road right-of-way is not well defined, the setback shall be measured form the road center line and is the sum of the building setback of thirty (30) feet for a county road or fifty (50) feet for a state road and the distance from the center line of the road to the standard right-of-way line of the road of twenty-eight (28) feet for a local road, thirty-three (33) feet for a collector road, and forty (40) or fifty (50) feet for an arterial road. Driveway grade : The driveway gaining access to a county road shall have a grade not more than five (5) per cent for the ten (10) feet closest to the road right-of-way line. Paved : The road frontage must be paved and the roads giving access to the site must be paved with asphalt, concrete, or other bound-together, hard-surface paving material (not gravel or dirt) and as approved by the County Engineer.
 Engineering Standards : The County Engineer shall maintain design standards for culverts, driveways, curbs, curb cuts, drainage facilities, etc., according to generally accepted engineering practice.


===== 8.06.040 Enforcement =====
Enforcement Generally : The County Engineer and County Building Inspector shall cause this chapter to be enforced by the withholding of building, excavation, access or other appropriate permits, and cause the institution or appropriate legal actions; they shall require such plans and make such inspections as are reasonably necessary to carry out the enforcement of this chapter. Penalty : Any person, firm or corporation violating or permitting the violation of any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor, and the County Attorney may institute, in addition to other remedies provided by law, injunction, mandamus, abatement or other appropriate action to obtain compliance. Disclaimer of Liability : Whether by reason of the issuance of a permit, the performance of inspections, the approval of any work authorized hereunder, or any other act or omission, the provisions of this chapter shall not be construed as imposing upon the County, or any official or employee thereof, any liability or responsibility for damages to any property or person harmed by the performance of work, or the utilization of any structure or location, or otherwise, for which an access permit is issued hereunder. Emergency Access : Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent emergency access to a county road when necessary to preserve life or property.


===== 8.07 State Vehicle Regulations Adopted =====
8.07.010 State Regulations Adopted 8.07.020 Applicability 8.07.030 Vehicle Registration And Business Administration Code Adopted 8.07.040 Penalties 8.07.050 Duties And Powers Of The County Sheriff 8.07.060 Obedience To County Sheriff 8.07.070 Obedience To Police Officer 8.07.080 Responsibility Of Parent Or Guardian 8.07.090 Speed Restrictions - Generally 8.07.100 Drinking In Vehicles 8.07.110 Removal Of Brush, Foliage Or Other Obstruction Impairing View


===== 8.07.010 State Regulations Adopted =====
The Motor Vehicle Act, Utah Code Chapter 41-1a, is hereby adopted as a Utah County Ordinance. Provided, however, that any provision of the foregoing having a penalty which cannot be imposed for violation of a County ordinance is not adopted. The Uniform Driver License Act, Utah Code Chapter 53-3, is hereby adopted as a Utah County Ordinance. Provided, however, that any provision of the foregoing having a penalty which cannot be imposed for violation of a County ordinance is not adopted. The Traffic Code, Utah Code Chapter 41-6a, containing traffic rules and regulations, is hereby adopted as a Utah County Ordinance. Provided however, that any provision of the foregoing having a penalty which cannot be imposed for violation of a County ordinance is not adopted. The Financial Responsibility of Motor Vehicle Owners and Operators Act, Utah Code Chapter 41-12a, is hereby adopted as a Utah County Ordinance. Provided, however, that any provision of the foregoing having a penalty which cannot be imposed for violation of a County ordinance is not adopted. The Off-Highway Vehicles Act, Utah Code Chapter 41-22, is hereby adopted as a Utah County Ordinance. Provided, however, that any provision of the foregoing having a penalty which cannot be imposed for violation of a County ordinance is not adopted. The Motor Vehicle Insurance laws, Utah Code Chapter 31A-22 Part 3, is hereby adopted as a Utah County Ordinance. Provided, however, that any provision of the foregoing having a penalty which cannot be imposed for violation of a County ordinance is not adopted.


===== 8.07.020 Applicability =====
All vehicles using the roads and highways of the County shall be subject to the provisions of this title. Every person propelling any push cart or riding an animal upon a roadway, and every person driving an animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to such provisions as are applicable to the drivers of vehicles, except those which by their very nature can have no application.


===== 8.07.030 Vehicle Registration And Business Administration Code Adopted =====
The State of Utah Motor Vehicle Registration and Motor Vehicle Business Regulation Act Utah Code Chapter 41-1a Part 2 and Chapter 41-3 are hereby adopted by the County to the same extent and effect as though copied word for word in full.


===== 8.07.040 Penalties =====
Any person who shall violate any provision of this title shall be deemed guilty of a class B misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be penalized as provided in UCC 1.04.010.


===== 8.07.050 Duties And Powers Of The County Sheriff =====
The County Sheriff is hereby vested with each and every power necessary to the effective discharge of the Sheriff's duty to administer the provisions of this title and all laws regulating the operation of vehicles on the streets and highways of the County.


===== 8.07.060 Obedience To County Sheriff =====
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of any officer of the County Sheriff's Department or other officer assigned to traffic duty and vested by law with authority to direct, control or regulate traffic. The County Sheriff shall direct all traffic in accordance with the provisions of this title, or in emergencies as public safety or convenience may require. Except in case of an emergency, it shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by law to direct or attempt to direct traffic.


===== 8.07.070 Obedience To Police Officer =====
No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of any police officer invested by law with the authority to direct, control or regulate traffic.


===== 8.07.080 Responsibility Of Parent Or Guardian =====
The parent or custodian of any child and the guardian of any ward or person having charge of any blind, confused, or incapacitated person shall not authorize or knowingly permit any such person to violate any of the provisions of this title.


===== 8.07.090 Speed Restrictions - Generally =====
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or cause a motor vehicle to be driven at a speed in excess of that posted by speed signs on any county road. Roads not so posted shall have a maximum speed limit of forty (40) miles per hour.


===== 8.07.100 Drinking In Vehicles =====
For the purposes of this section:

"Passenger compartment" means the area of the vehicle normally occupied by the operator and passengers and includes areas accessible to them while traveling, including a utility or glove compartment, but does not include a separate front or rear trunk compartment or other area of the vehicle not accessible to the operator or passengers while inside the vehicle; and

"Alcoholic beverage" has the meaning given in Utah Code § 32B-1-102.
 A person may not drink any alcoholic beverage while operating a golf cart, motor vehicle, a motor assisted scooter, or a class 2 electric assisted bicycle, or while a passenger in a motor vehicle, whether the vehicle is moving, stopped, or parked on any private road, public street, highway, or parking lot. A person may not keep, carry, possess, transport, or allow another to keep, carry, possess or transport in the passenger compartment of a golf cart, motor vehicle, a motor assisted scooter, or a class 2 electric assisted bicycle, when the vehicle is on any private road, public street, highway, or parking lot, any container whatsoever which contains any alcoholic beverage if the container has been opened, its seal broken, or the contents of the container partially consumed. The provisions of Subsections B and C shall not apply to passengers in the living quarters of a motor home or camper, but the operator of the vehicle will be prohibited from consuming alcoholic beverages as provided in Subsection B. The provisions of Subsection C shall not apply to passengers traveling in any duly licensed taxicab or bus. Any person convicted of a violation of this section is guilty of a class C misdemeanor.


===== 8.07.110 Removal Of Brush, Foliage Or Other Obstruction Impairing View =====
It shall be unlawful for persons owning or occupying property adjacent to any road or highway in the county to permit the growth of any tree, shrub or other vegetation to block the view of traffic signs to the vision of oncoming motorists, or to obscure the vision of oncoming traffic in any way whatsoever. It shall be the duty of the County Sheriff's Department to make the hazard known to the landowner, who, if then failing to remove the obstacle, shall be charged with the expense of removal.


===== 8.08 Traffic-Control Devices =====
8.08.010 Traffic-Control Devices 8.08.020 Authority To Install 8.08.030 Manual And Specifications 8.08.040 Obedience To Devices 8.08.050 When Devices Required For Enforcement Purposes 8.08.060 Presumption Of Legality 8.08.070 Display Of Unauthorized Signs, Etc 8.08.080 Damaging Traffic Signs


===== 8.08.010 Traffic-Control Devices =====
It shall be the duty of the County Sheriff or designee to cause to be erected, in conformity with the manual and specifications of the Utah Department of Transportation, traffic-control devices and traffic signs to regulate, warn, and guide traffic on the streets and highways of the County.


===== 8.08.020 Authority To Install =====
The County Engineer shall place and maintain official traffic-control devices when and as required under the traffic ordinances of this County to make effective the provisions of said ordinances and may place and maintain such additional official traffic-control devices as the County Engineer may deem necessary to regulate, warn or guide traffic under the traffic ordinances of this County or the State traffic code.


===== 8.08.030 Manual And Specifications =====
All traffic-control signs, signals and devices shall conform to the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices and specifications approved by the State Highway Commission. All signs and signals required hereunder for a particular purpose shall so far as practicable be uniform as to type and location throughout the county. All traffic-control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of State law or this title shall be official traffic-control devices.


===== 8.08.040 Obedience To Devices =====
The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official traffic-control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the provisions of this title, unless otherwise directed by a traffic or police officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle.


===== 8.08.050 When Devices Required For Enforcement Purposes =====
No provision of this title for which official traffic-control devices are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and place of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state that official traffic-control devices are required, such section shall be effective even though no devices are erected or in place.


===== 8.08.060 Presumption Of Legality =====
Whenever official traffic-control devices are placed in position approximately conforming to the requirements of this title, such devices shall be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of lawful authority, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence. Any official traffic-control device placed pursuant to the provisions of this title and purporting to conform to the lawful requirements pertaining to such devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of this title, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.


===== 8.08.070 Display Of Unauthorized Signs, Etc =====
No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of any highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or other device: that purports to be, imitates or resembles an official traffic-control device, railroad sign or signal; that attempts to direct the movement of traffic; or that hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic-control device or any railroad sign or signal. No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority permit upon any highway, any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any commercial advertising. This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon private property adjacent to a highway of signs giving useful directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs. Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. The authority having jurisdiction over the highway is hereby empowered to remove the same or cause it to be removed without notice.


===== 8.08.080 Damaging Traffic Signs =====
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive into, alter, deface, injure, move, demolish, remove, or interfere with any traffic sign, standard, post, chain, rope or other traffic-control device installed or placed to indicate safety zones or for the purpose of directing or regulating traffic in the county.


===== 8.09 Trespass By Vehicle =====
8.09.010 Definitions 8.09.020 Exceptions 8.09.030 Permission Required - Private Property 8.09.040 Permission Required - Public Property 8.09.050 Possession Of Permission


===== 8.09.010 Definitions =====
For the purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them: "Motor vehicle" means any motor vehicle as defined by state law, including, but not limited to, motorcycles, trail bikes, dune buggies, motor scooters or jeeps. "Private street" means a street over which the general public has an easement to travel and does not include driveways, paths or other ways over which no one has a right to travel except by license.


===== 8.09.020 Exceptions =====
This chapter does not prohibit the use of private streets by the following:
 emergency vehicles; vehicles of commerce in the course of the conduct of normal business; vehicles being operated on property devoted to commercial or industrial purposes where such operation is in conjunction with commercial or industrial use and where such operation is implied or expressly given by the person in possession of said property; vehicles operated on property actually used for residential purposes and where such vehicles are there at the express or implied invitation of the owner or occupant; or vehicles being operated on public or private parking lots where permission to so operate is implied or expressly given by the person in possession of the lot.


===== 8.09.030 Permission Required - Private Property =====
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any type of motor vehicle upon the private property of another without first obtaining the written permission of the person in lawful possession of the property or, if the property is unoccupied, the owner of such property.


===== 8.09.040 Permission Required - Public Property =====
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any type of motor vehicle upon any public property, except a highway or public street or private street without first obtaining the written permission of the public entity which is in possession of such property, or, if the property is unoccupied, the public entity which owns such property or as to a private street the owner of said property.


===== 8.09.050 Possession Of Permission =====
Every person who operates any type of motor vehicle upon the private property of another or upon any public property, except a highway or private street, at all times while so operating such motor vehicle, shall maintain in his possession the written permission required by UCC 8.09.030 and UCC 8.09.040; except that, if the said document grants permission to two (2) or more persons, a person named in such document need not have it in his possession while another person named in the same document, riding in the same group and not more than three hundred (300) feet from said person, has such document in his possession.


===== 8.10 Parking =====
8.10.010 Erection Of Traffic-Control Devices 8.10.020 Regulation Of Parking 8.10.030 Parking For Certain Purposes Prohibited 8.10.040 Removal Of Illegally Parked Vehicle 8.10.050 Liability


===== 8.10.010 Erection Of Traffic-Control Devices =====
It shall be the duty of the County Sheriff or designee to cause traffic signs and other traffic-control devices to be erected, to regulate, warn and guide traffic and parking on the streets, highways, and property of the County. No traffic-control device shall be placed or maintained upon any highway under the jurisdiction of the Utah Department of Transportation without first obtaining the latter's permission.


===== 8.10.020 Regulation Of Parking =====
The County Sheriff's Department or designee may place signs on all county roads and highways prohibiting or restricting the parking of vehicles where in its opinion, as evidenced by an order entered in its records, such parking is dangerous to those using said roads or where the parking of vehicles would unduly interfere with the free movement of traffic thereon. The County Sheriff's Department or designee may prohibit, restrict, or regulate the parking, stopping or standing of vehicles on any off-street parking facility or property which the County owns or operates. No such regulations shall apply until signs giving notice thereof have been erected.


===== 8.10.030 Parking For Certain Purposes Prohibited =====
No person shall park or operate a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal purpose of:
 displaying such vehicle for sale; repairing such vehicle, except repairs necessitated by an emergency; displaying advertising; or selling foodstuffs or other merchandise in any business district.


===== 8.10.040 Removal Of Illegally Parked Vehicle =====
Whenever any officer of the County Sheriff's Department finds a vehicle parked or standing upon a street in violation of any of the provisions of this code, the officer is hereby authorized to move the vehicle, or require the driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to move it to a position not in violation of this code.


===== 8.10.050 Liability =====
The fact that an automobile is illegally parked shall be sufficient to constitute a rebuttable presumption that the registered owner was in control of the automobile at the time it was parked.


===== 8.11 County Governmental Complex Parking =====
8.11.010 Enforcement By The County Sheriff 8.11.020 General Rules And Information 8.11.030 Parking Restrictions 8.11.040 Enforcement


===== 8.11.010 Enforcement By The County Sheriff =====
Pursuant to UCC 8.10.020, the County Sheriff shall be responsible for the regulation and enforcement of parking at the Utah County Administration building, the Historic County Courthouse, and the Utah County Health and Justice Building. By agreement with the State of Utah executed 2 January 1991, the County Sheriff shall be responsible for regulating and enforcement of parking at the parking structure associated with the Utah State Government Provo Regional Center.


===== 8.11.020 General Rules And Information =====
The following parking restrictions are intended to be in conformance with existing law shall apply at the facilities mentioned in UCC 8.11.010 unless superseded by any state or federal law. State of Utah Traffic Rules and Regulations shall apply to all traffic using the facilities mentioned in UCC 8.11.010.


===== 8.11.030 Parking Restrictions =====
Parking is prohibited in the following areas:
 Red curb : areas with a red curb marking. Handicapped stall : stalls marked as "handicapped only" unless the vehicle has appropriate handicapped designation.
 Blocking traffic : in front of any public stairs, or blocking any public entrance, or impeding the flow of traffic through the parking areas. Outside stall lines : across parking stall lines in a manner that impedes parking in adjacent stalls. Blocking loading dock : blocking the loading dock and adjacent service areas. Fire lane : in fire lane or blocking access to fire hydrants and standpipes. On walkways, sidewalks, or vegetation.
 Overnight parking : No overnight parking is allowed without the specific approval of designated security personnel. Unauthorized stall or no parking sticker : Parking is prohibited in any stall that is marked "reserved" or otherwise posted for a specific use without the appropriate parking sticker or prior approval from designated security personnel. Overtime : It is a violation for any car to be parked in a stall marked with a time limit for any period of time longer than that designated. Abandoned vehicle : Vehicles left sitting for more than seven (7) days will be considered abandoned and will be towed away unless other arrangements are made with designated security personnel.


===== 8.11.040 Enforcement =====
The County Sheriff shall be authorized to issue citations or use other enforcement actions as may be necessary for parking control and regulation pursuant to the restrictions set forth in UCC 8.11.030. Enforcement of this chapter shall be accomplished in a prudent and effective manner including but not limited to the following: issuance of citations for violations and requiring the payment of a fine; towing of any vehicle at the owner's expense; and reporting of employees who consistently disregard parking policy to their respective department head.


===== 8.12 Civil Violations Procedure =====
8.12.010 Position Of Civil Violations Hearing Examiner Created - Powers And Duties 8.12.020 Acts Made Civil Infractions 8.12.030 Notice Of Infraction 8.12.040 Response To Notice Of Infraction- Payments By Mail 8.12.050 Fee For Infractions - Payment 8.12.060 Contesting An Infraction - Hearing - Appeals 8.12.070 Special Provisions Relating To Parking Regulations 8.12.080 Civil Appeals 8.12.090 Criminal Violation 8.12.100 Civil Collection Actions


===== 8.12.010 Position Of Civil Violations Hearing Examiner Created - Powers And Duties =====
The position of Civil Violations Hearing Examiner is hereby created within the County Attorney's Office. A Hearing Examiner shall be a member in good standing of the Utah State Bar and shall perform all duties and exercise all powers described in this chapter. The amount of a Hearing Examiner's compensation shall not be based directly or indirectly upon the outcome of cases heard by the Hearing Examiner. A hearing Examiner may perform the Examiner's duties through subordinates, except that a hearing shall be conducted only by a Hearing Officer if a person charged with an infraction so requires in writing.


===== 8.12.020 Acts Made Civil Infractions =====
The following acts are hereby declared to be civil infractions (and not criminal offenses) and within the jurisdiction of the County Civil Violations Hearing Examiner: Violation of any of the parking regulations described in Chapter 8.11, County Governmental Complex Parking.


===== 8.12.030 Notice Of Infraction =====
A written notice of infraction shall be issued to each person charged with a civil infraction, which notice shall contain not less than the following information: the name and address of the person charged with the infraction; the infraction charged; the date and place of the infraction; if the infraction involved the use of a motor vehicle, the make of the vehicle and its license number; provide that the notice of infraction must be responded to at the Auditor's Office; and other information, including, in the discretion of the Civil Violations Hearing Examiner, information related to payments by mail.


===== 8.12.040 Response To Notice Of Infraction- Payments By Mail =====
Any person to whom a notice of infraction has been issued shall respond within fourteen (14) days thereof by:
1. paying the fee described in UCC 8.12.050;
2. contesting the violation in the manner described in UCC 8.12.060; or
3. demonstrating the financial inability to pay the applicable fee on any reasonable terms. For good cause, the Civil Violations Hearing Examiner may allow reasonable terms for payment under Subsection A1. A person claiming under Subsection A3 shall agree with the Civil Violations Hearing Examiner to perform public service in lieu of paying the fee, which public service shall be performed in not more than thirty (30) days after the agreement is entered into.
 Fees may be paid by mail, but the risk that payments may be lost in the mail shall be on the sender, and all payments shall be received by the Civil Violations Hearing Examiner within the times required by this chapter.


===== 8.12.050 Fee For Infractions - Payment =====
The following fees, payable to the County Auditor's Office shall apply to the infractions indicated below. Infraction Fee Unauthorized stall (assigned) $10.00 Red Curb $15.00 Handicapped stall (no permit) $50.00 Outside stall (lines) $10.00 Blocking traffic $15.00 Impeding safety $15.00 No parking sticker $10.00 Abandoned vehicle $10.00 Fire Lane $15.00 Overtime $10.00 Blocking loading dock $15.00 The fees described in Subsection A shall apply if the fee is paid or the infraction is contested within fourteen (14) days after the notice of infraction is issued. If the fee is paid or the infraction is contested within twenty (20) days, but more than fourteen (14) days, after the notice of infraction is issued, the fee shall be multiplied by two (2). An infraction action shall be deemed to be in default twenty-one (21) days after the notice of infraction was issued if prior thereto the applicable fee has not been paid or the action contested. Fees and other money related to civil infractions shall be paid to the County Auditor's Office in such manner, not inconsistent with this chapter, as the County Auditor's shall direct. No Hearing Examiner or any subordinate thereof shall receive any fees or other money related to civil infractions over which the Hearing Examiner has jurisdiction.


===== 8.12.060 Contesting An Infraction - Hearing - Appeals =====
Any person charged with an infraction may contest the same instead of paying the fee. An infraction is contested by causing written notice thereof to be delivered to the County Attorney's Office. If the person charged with an infraction fails or refuses to give a correct mailing address when contesting an infraction the action shall be deemed to be in default and not contested. When an infraction is contested, the Hearing Examiner shall thereafter conduct a civil hearing with respect thereto. The notice of infraction shall constitute prima facie evidence that the infraction alleged therein actually occurred. The hearing shall be conducted as informally as the circumstances will allow and shall be based on the civil standard of preponderance of the evidence. At the hearing, any party may be required to testify. The Hearing Examiner shall decide if the alleged infraction occurred. If the Hearing Examiner finds the infraction alleged did not occur, the notice of infraction shall be without any further force or effect. If the Hearing Examiner finds at the hearing that the infraction alleged did occur, the person to whom the Notice of Infraction was issued shall respond as provided in UCC 8.12.040. The response shall be within five (5) days after the hearing, unless the decision is given by mail and not at the hearing, in which event the response shall be in ten (10) days after the decision is mailed to the address given when the infraction was contested. A contested action shall be in default if not responded to in the time periods provided in this Subsection C.


===== 8.12.070 Special Provisions Relating To Parking Regulations =====
If a civil infraction relates to a parking regulation, the following rules shall apply:
 The notice of infraction may be issued by affixing the same to a conspicuous place on the subject motor vehicle. Except as provided in Subsection C the registered owner of a motor vehicle shall be liable for the use thereof. If a notice of infraction is not responded to as required by UCC 8.12.040, or if the action with respect thereto goes into default for any reason, a notice shall be mailed to the registered owner of the subject motor vehicle at the address shown on the registration certificate. The notice shall require the registered owner to respond to the subject notice of infraction in the time and manner required by UCC 8.12.040, except that the registered owner shall have ten (10) days from the date of mailing to respond. The registered owner shall have a cause of action for reimbursement against an operator who caused or permitted an infraction for which the registered owner is held liable It shall be a defense to a parking violation, assertable only by the registered owner of the subject motor vehicle, that the operator who caused or allowed the violation acquired possession of the subject motor vehicle under circumstances constituting a violation of the criminal laws. Any motor vehicle with respect to which six (6) or more notices of infraction are in default, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and the County may authorize said motor vehicle to be towed at the expense and risk of the registered owner. Said motor vehicle shall be held and not released until the unpaid fees and reasonable costs of towing and storage have been paid. If a motor vehicle has been towed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and is being held for the payment of fees and charges, the owner thereof, or the agent of the owner, may, in writing, request a hearing to determine the validity of the action taken with respect to said motor vehicle, and said hearing shall take place within seventy-two (72) hours from the date of the request, unless the applicant agrees to a longer period of time before the hearing. The Hearing Examiner may order the release of any motor vehicle, without cost to the owner or the owner's agent, if said motor vehicle was towed from the public streets or is being held in violation of this chapter or other applicable law.


===== 8.12.080 Civil Appeals =====
Any person dissatisfied with a decision of a Civil Violations Hearing Examiner may appeal the same within fifteen (15) days to the Utah County Justice Court, which shall hear the action de novo in the manner described in UCC 8.12.060 Subsection C. Failure to respond to a notice of infraction shall not be a decision from which an appeal can be taken.


===== 8.12.090 Criminal Violation =====
Notwithstanding any contrary provision in this chapter, it shall be an infraction, with exclusive original jurisdiction in the Utah County Justice Court: for a person to whom a notice of infraction has been issued to allow the subject action to go into default; for a registered owner to fail or refuse to respond to a notice to respond issued pursuant to UCC 8.12.070 Subsection B; or for a person to willfully fail or refuse to completely perform the public service agreed pursuant to UCC 8.12.040 Subsection A1. For the purposes of this section, it shall be a rebuttable presumption that the notice of infraction and any other notices have been received by the addressee.


===== 8.12.100 Civil Collection Actions =====
The County may bring civil suit in the courts of the State of Utah to recover the amount of overdue and unpaid fees, and any other reasonable charges related thereto.


===== 8.13 Local Option Transportation Corridor Preservation Fee =====
8.13.010 Title 8.13.020 Purpose 8.13.030 Local Option Transportation Corridor Preservation Fee 8.13.040 Exemption To The Local Option Transportation Corridor Preservation Fee 8.13.050 Use Of The Local Option Transportation Corridor Preservation Fee 8.13.060 Notice 8.13.070 Effective Date


===== 8.13.010 Title =====
This chapter shall be known as the “Local Option Transportation Corridor Preservation Fee Ordinance” for Utah County, Utah.


===== 8.13.020 Purpose =====
The Utah State Legislature has authorized counties to enact a Local Option Transportation Corridor Preservation Fee that may be collected at the time application is made for the registration or the renewal of the registration of a motor vehicle under assessment and collection of fee pursuant to Utah Code §§ 72-2-117, 72-2-117.5, and 41-1a-1222.


===== 8.13.030 Local Option Transportation Corridor Preservation Fee =====
There is hereby assessed upon each motor vehicle, at the time application is made for the registration or the renewal of the registration of the motor vehicle, a fee of ten dollars ($10.00).


===== 8.13.040 Exemption To The Local Option Transportation Corridor Preservation Fee =====
A motor vehicle that is exempt from the registration fee under Utah Code §§ 41-1a-1209 or 41-1a-419(3) is also exempt from this Local Option Transportation Corridor Preservation Fee. A commercial motor vehicle with an apportioned registration under Utah Code § 41-1a-301 is exempt from the Local Option Transportation Corridor Preservation Fee.


===== 8.13.050 Use Of The Local Option Transportation Corridor Preservation Fee =====
Revenues generated from the collection of the Local Option Transportation Corridor Preservation Fee shall be: deposited in the Local Option Transportation Corridor Preservation Fund created in Utah Code §§ 72-2-117 and 72-2-117.5; and used and distributed in accordance with Utah Code § 72-2-117.5.
 The County Commission shall, upon finding that the requirements of Utah Code § 72-2-117.5 are met, approve the expenditure of funds from the Local Option Transportation Corridor Preservation Fund.


===== 8.13.060 Notice =====
Notice shall be given by the County before a fee is enacted, changed, or repealed. The notice shall include: a statement that the County will enact, change, or repeal the fee; the amount of the enactment or change in the fee; and a copy of the ordinance imposing the fee.


===== 8.13.070 Effective Date =====
This chapter shall become effective on July 1, 2006.


===== 8.14 Public Land Survey Corners =====
8.14.010 Title 8.14.020 Purpose 8.14.030 Public Land Corner Preservation Fund 8.14.040 Fee 8.14.050 Use Of Public Land Corner Preservation Fund 8.14.060 Prohibition Against Covering Monuments 8.14.070 Public Survey Monument Defined 8.14.080 Permit Application 8.14.090 Permit Fee 8.14.100 Licensed Land Surveyor Required 8.14.110 Penalty For Work Without A Permit 8.14.120 County Restoration, Replacement, Repair Or Uncovering 8.14.130 Stop Work Order 8.14.140 Itemized Statement Of Expenses


===== 8.14.010 Title =====
This chapter shall be known as the “Public Land Survey Corners” for Utah County, Utah.


===== 8.14.020 Purpose =====
The Utah State Legislature has authorized counties to enact a fund to be known as the Public Land Corner Preservation Fund and to establish a fee schedule for filing maps in the County Surveyor's office of surveys filed under Utah Code § 17-73-504 regarding subdivisions, road dedication plats, and other property plats, pursuant to Utah Code § 17-63-710.


===== 8.14.030 Public Land Corner Preservation Fund =====
There is hereby established a fund to be known as the Public Land Corner Preservation Fund.


===== 8.14.040 Fee =====
There is hereby established a fee schedule for filing maps in the County Surveyor's office of surveys filed under Utah Code § 17-73-504 regarding subdivisions, road dedication plats, and other property plats in the amount set forth in the Utah Government Fee Schedule adopted in book form by UCC 2.01.060. All money collected under this chapter shall be deposited with the County Treasurer to be credited to the Public Land Corner Preservation Fund.


===== 8.14.050 Use Of Public Land Corner Preservation Fund =====
Money generated for the fund shall be used only to pay expenses incurred and authorized by the County Surveyor in the establishment, reestablishment, and maintenance of corners of government surveys pursuant to the powers and duties provided under Utah Code Chapters 17-23, and 57-10.


===== 8.14.060 Prohibition Against Covering Monuments =====
It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, remove, or cover with any hard surfacing such as asphalt, concrete or metal any public survey monument or section corner, including the metal ring and cover, except as permitted by this chapter.


===== 8.14.070 Public Survey Monument Defined =====
“Public survey monument” means and includes any survey monument, benchmark, or section corner, including metal ring and cover, and includes any of the following: 
 any public land survey system (“PLSS”) monument [also referred to as “public land survey corner” monument in Utah Code § 17-73-101(16)] representing the location of a corner of record in the registry of the original or subsequent surveys performed by the federal government (section corners, quarter section corners, or aliquot parts of sections); any reference or witness corner monument used as an accessory to those PLSS monuments described above; any subdivision monument located in the unincorporated areas of the County and set specifically for survey control of said subdivision; any type of NON-PLSS survey monument set either by the United States by and through its departments, divisions or agencies or the County Surveyor and used for horizontal survey control work; and any type of NON-PLSS survey monument set by the County, the State of Utah, the United States or any department, division, or agency of any such governmental entity and used for vertical survey control work.


===== 8.14.080 Permit Application =====
A person shall apply for a permit on a form provided by the County Surveyor prior to disturbing, damaging, removing, moving, or covering any public survey monument.


===== 8.14.090 Permit Fee =====
The applicant for a public survey monument excavation permit shall pay a fee with the application in the amount set forth in the Utah County Government Fee Schedule adopted in book form by UCC 2.01.060. All money collected under this chapter shall be deposited with the County Treasurer to be credited to the Public Land Corner Preservation Fund.


===== 8.14.100 Licensed Land Surveyor Required =====
Work under a public survey monument permit shall be performed only under the supervision of a licensed Utah land surveyor in accordance with any specifications, requirements and conditions imposed by the County Surveyor and any other entity whose approval is required.


===== 8.14.110 Penalty For Work Without A Permit =====
A person who disturbs, damages, moves, removes, or covers a public monument without a permit as required by this chapter shall, in addition to any other penalty, pay double the permit fee required by UCC 8.14.090.


===== 8.14.120 County Restoration, Replacement, Repair Or Uncovering =====
The County Surveyor may restore, repair, raise, replace, or uncover any public survey monument owned by the County which is disturbed, damaged, moved, removed, or covered in violation of this chapter. The cost of such restoration, repair, raising, replacement, or uncovering, including any necessary re-surveying, shall be paid by the person who disturbed, damaged, moved, removed, or covered the public survey monument, or by the person for whom such actions were performed.


===== 8.14.130 Stop Work Order =====
In addition to any other penalty, the County Surveyor or designee may issue a stop work order. The stop work order may be issued when the County Surveyor’s Office has reasonable suspicion and/or knowledge that one (1) or more public survey monuments are in danger of being damaged, removed or covered. The work may be stopped by giving notice in writing served on any persons engaged in doing or causing the damage, removal or covering of the monument. The notice shall be given three (3) days prior to the actual work stoppage, allowing the person time to be heard by the County Surveyor and come into compliance with this chapter. Failure to come into compliance will result in the issuance of the stop work order until compliance is achieved, in addition to any other penalty.


===== 8.14.140 Itemized Statement Of Expenses =====
The County Surveyor shall prepare an itemized statement of all expenses incurred in the restoration, repair, raising, replacement, or uncovering, including any necessary re- surveying, of any public survey monument which the County Surveyor is required to restore, repair, raise, replace, or uncover. The statement shall be mailed or delivered to the person who caused the County Surveyor to take such action or to the person whom the work was performed. The statement shall include the cost of all County personnel. Payment of the statement shall be due within twenty (20) days of the mailing or delivery of the statement. The statement shall be deemed delivered when sent by certified mail postage prepaid, or hand delivered, addressed to the last known address of the person who caused the County to take action or the person for whom such work was performed.


===== 8.15 Planning =====
8.15.010 Land Use Ordinance 8.15.020 Copies Of Ordinance 8.15.030 Penalties 8.15.040 Development Standards 8.15.050 Adoption Of Manual Of Standard Specifications 8.15.060 Violations 8.15.070 Civil Remedies


===== 8.15.010 Land Use Ordinance =====
The Utah County Land Use Ordinance , the Official Utah County Zone Map, and all subsequent amendments thereto, are hereby adopted, enacted, and shall continue to remain in effect.


===== 8.15.020 Copies Of Ordinance =====
Three (3) copies of the Utah County Land Use Ordinance , with all subsequent amendments, are ordered to be filed in the office of the County Clerk for the use and examination by the public.


===== 8.15.030 Penalties =====
Violations of any provision of the Utah County Land Use Ordinance shall be a class C misdemeanor and subject to the criminal and civil remedies stated in Utah Code §§ 17-79-901 and 17-79-902, and Chapter 16 of the Utah County Land Use Ordinance .


===== 8.15.040 Development Standards =====
There is hereby established the Utah County Development Standards which are administered by the County Engineer. The Utah County Development Standards are adopted in book form and by this reference made part of this chapter to the same extent and effect as though the standards were copied herein in full.


===== 8.15.050 Adoption Of Manual Of Standard Specifications =====
The most current version of The Manual of Standard Specifications published by the Utah Chapter of the American Public Works Association is adopted as the standard requirements for installation of materials and systems in public works environments. The most current version of The Manual of Standard Specifications is adopted in book form and by this reference made part of this chapter to the same extent and effect as though said manual was copied herein in full. The most current version of The Manual of Standard Plans published by the Utah Chapter of the American Public Works Association is adopted in book form as recommended plans to be used in the installation of materials and systems in public works environments.


===== 8.15.060 Violations =====
Any violation of the Utah County Development Standards shall be a class C misdemeanor.


===== 8.15.070 Civil Remedies =====
The County Attorney may, in addition to other remedies provided by law, institute legal action for injunction, mandamus, abatement or any other appropriate action or actions, proceeding or proceedings to prevent, enjoin, abate, or remove any unlawful development, not meeting the standards set forth in the Manual of Standard Specifications adopted by this chapter, or any violation of this chapter or amendments thereof.


===== 8.16 Constitutional Taking Guidelines =====
8.16.010 Purpose 8.16.020 Definitions 8.16.030 Exclusion From Chapter 8.16.040 Guidelines Advisory 8.16.050 Review Of Decision 8.16.060 Hearing Examiners


===== 8.16.010 Purpose =====
The purpose of this chapter is to establish guidelines and a procedure for review of County actions that involve a physical taking or exaction of private real property that may have constitutional taking issues. This chapter is further intended and shall be construed to objectively and fairly review claims by property owners that any such County actions should require payment of just compensation, yet preserve the ability of the County to lawfully regulate real property and fulfill its other duties and obligations.


===== 8.16.020 Definitions =====
"County" shall mean Utah County, its officers, employees, boards, agencies and commissions. "Constitutional taking" shall mean actions by the County involving the physical taking or exaction of private real property that might require compensation to the property owner because of: the Fifth or Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States; Article I, Section 22 of the Utah Constitution; or any recent court ruling governing the physical taking or exaction of private real property by Utah County. An action by the County involving the physical taking or exaction of private real property is not a constitutional taking if the physical taking or exaction bears an essential nexus to a legitimate government interest and is roughly proportionate and reasonably related, on an individual property basis, both in nature and extent, to the impact of the proposed development on the legitimate government interest.


===== 8.16.030 Exclusion From Chapter =====
This chapter shall not apply when the County formally exercises its powers of eminent domain or when it regulates real property or requires payment of fees where there is no physical taking or exaction of the property.


===== 8.16.040 Guidelines Advisory =====
The guidelines adopted and decisions rendered pursuant to the provisions of this chapter are advisory and shall not be construed to expand or limit the scope of the County's liability for a constitutional taking. The County Commission shall not be required to make any determination under this chapter except pursuant to UCC 8.16.050.


===== 8.16.050 Review Of Decision =====
Any owner of private real property who claims that there has been a constitutional taking by the County of the owner's real property shall request review of the final decision constituting the alleged constitutional taking. The following are the specific requirements established for such a review:
 The person requesting the review must have obtained a final decision from which the review is being requested. Within thirty (30) days from the date of the final decision, the person requesting the review shall file in writing in the office of the County Commission, an application for review of that decision. A copy of the application shall also be filed with the County Attorney's Office. In addition to the written request for review, the applicant must submit the following before the application shall be considered as submitted and complete: name of the applicant requesting review; name and business address of current owner of the property, form of ownership, whether sole proprietorship, for-profit or not-for-profit corporation, partnership, joint venture or other, and if owned by a privately held corporation, partnership, or joint venture, name and address of all principal shareholders or partners; a detailed description of the grounds for the claim that there has been a constitutional taking including any legal authority which supports the claim; a legal description of the property alleged to have been taken; evidence and documentation as to the value of the property alleged to have been taken, including the date of acquisition and the cost of acquisition. This should include any evidence of the value of that same property before and after the alleged constitutional taking, the name of the party from whom purchased, including the relationship, if any, between the person requesting a review and the party from whom the property was acquired; nature of the interest claimed to be affected, such as, but not limited to, fee simple ownership, leasehold interest; terms (including sale price) of any previous purchase or sale of a full or partial interest in the property within the three (3) years prior to the date of the application; all appraisals of the property prepared for any purpose, including financing, offering for sale, or ad valorem taxation, within three (3) years prior to the date of the application; the assessed value of and ad valorem taxes on the property for the previous three (3) years; all information concerning current mortgages or other loans secured by the property, including name of the mortgagee or lender, current interest rate, remaining loan balance and term of the loan and other significant provisions, including but not limited to, right of purchasers to assume the loan; all listing of the property for sale or rent, price asked and offers received, if any, within the previous three (3) years; all studies commissioned by the petitioner or agents of the petitioner within the previous three (3) years concerning feasibility of development or utilization of the property; for income producing property, itemized income and expense statements from the property for the previous three (3) years; information from a title policy or other source showing all recorded liens or encumbrances affecting the property; and the County Commission may request additional information reasonably necessary, in its opinion, to arrive at a conclusion concerning whether there has been a constitutional taking.
 Upon written notice by the County Commission that the application is complete, it shall be considered as submitted. The County Commission shall then set a time to review the decision that gave rise to the constitutional takings claim. The County Commission shall promptly notify an applicant when the application is incomplete. The County Commission shall hear all the evidence related to and submitted by the applicant, the County, or any other interested party. A final decision on the application shall be rendered within fourteen (14) days from the date the complete application for review has been received by the County Commission. The decision of the County Commission shall be given in writing to the applicant and the officer, employee, board, or commission that rendered the final decision that gave rise to the constitutional takings claim.


===== 8.16.060 Hearing Examiners =====
The County Commission may appoint one (1) or more hearing examiners to review and hear applications filed under this chapter and make recommendations to the County Commission and to any other officer, employee, board, or commission that made the decision that gave rise to the constitutional takings claim.


===== 8.17 Planning Area Advisory Planning Commission =====
8.17.010 Definitions 8.17.020 Appointment Of Members 8.17.030 Vacancies On Planning Commission 8.17.040 Powers And Duties 8.17.050 Land Use Ordinance


===== 8.17.010 Definitions =====
As used in this chapter:
 
“Planning advisory area" means a contiguous, geographically defined portion of the unincorporated area of the County, established pursuant to Utah Code § 17-79-102(61), with planning and zoning functions as exercised through the planning advisory area planning commission, as provided in this chapter, but with no legal or political identity separate from the County and no taxing authority. 

“Unincorporated” means the area outside of the incorporated area of a municipality.


===== 8.17.020 Appointment Of Members =====
In accordance with the provisions of Utah Code § 17-79-301, the County Commission shall appoint seven (7) members of each Planning Advisory Area Planning Commission. Planning Advisory Area Planning Commission members shall serve four (4) year terms and until their successors are appointed and qualified. Members of each Planning Advisory Area Planning Commission shall be appointed so that the terms of at least one (1) member and no more than two (2) members expire on the first Monday of January in each year. Each member of a Planning Advisory Area Planning Commission shall be a registered voter residing within the planning advisory area. Members of the Planning Advisory Area Planning Commission shall be administered the oath of office following appointment, but before taking part in the consideration of any matter.
 After all members of the Planning Advisory Area Planning Commission have been appointed, the Commission shall meet and elect a chair and such other officers necessary to fulfill its duties. “Roberts Rules of Order” shall be followed in the conduct of all meetings wherever applicable. The Planning Advisory Area Planning Commission shall adopt a regular meeting schedule and shall hold its meetings at any place designated by the Commission. All meetings of the Planning Advisory Area Planning Commission shall be open to the public and comply with the requirements of Utah Code Chapter 52-4 entitled “Open and Public Meetings.”


===== 8.17.030 Vacancies On Planning Commission =====
Whenever a vacancy occurs on the Planning Advisory Area Planning Commission, for any reason, a replacement to serve out the unexpired term shall be appointed by the County Commission. A member of the Planning Advisory Area Planning Commission may be removed for cause and that member’s unexpired term shall be filled as provided in Subsection A.


===== 8.17.040 Powers And Duties =====
Each Planning Advisory Area Planning Commission shall, with respect to the planning advisory area, review and make a recommendation to the County Commission for: a general plan and amendments to the general plan; Land use regulations, including: ordinances regarding the subdivision of land within the county; and amendments to existing land use regulations; an appropriate delegation of power to at least one (1) designated land use authority to hear and act on a land use application; an appropriate delegation of power to at least one (1) appeal authority to hear and act on an appeal from a decision of the land use authority; application processes that: may include a designation of routine land use matters that, upon application and proper notice, will receive informal streamlined review and action if the application is uncontested; and shall protect the right of each: land use applicant and adversely affected party to require formal consideration of any application by a land use authority; land use applicant or adversely affected party to appeal a land use authority’s decision to a separate appeal authority; and participant to be heard in each public hearing on a contested application; advise the County Commission on matters as the County Commission directs; exercise any other powers delegated to it by the County Commission; and exercise any other powers that are necessary to enable it to perform its functions.


===== 8.17.050 Land Use Ordinance =====
Until such time as a separate general plan, land use ordinance, and subdivision ordinance are established for the planning advisory area, the general plan, land use ordinance, and subdivision ordinance for the County shall apply to the planning advisory area and the Planning Advisory Area Planning Commission shall be subject to all provisions of the Utah County Land Use Ordinance as it now exists and as it may be amended from time to time.


===== 8.18 Building And Safety Codes =====
8.18.010 Adoption Of Utah State Construction Code 8.18.020 Copy On File 8.18.030 Violations 8.18.040 Penalties 8.18.050 Appeals 8.18.060 Agricultural Structure Exemption 8.18.070 Fees 8.18.080 Review Of Single-Family Residential Building Permit Inspection


===== 8.18.010 Adoption Of Utah State Construction Code =====
In accordance with the provisions of Utah Code § 15A-2-103, the County adopts the Utah State Construction Code, as adopted by the Utah State Legislature, (“Construction Code”) as the construction standard to be adhered to within unincorporated Utah County.


===== 8.18.020 Copy On File =====
A copy of the Utah State Construction Code is ordered to be filed in the office of the County Clerk for the use and examination by the public.


===== 8.18.030 Violations =====
It shall be unlawful for a property owner, or other person, firm, corporation, partnership, or entity, contrary to or in violation of the provision of this chapter, to: do any grading, excavating, or filling in the County; erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building, structure, or service equipment; or permit, hire, authorize, or cause the same to occur in the County.


===== 8.18.040 Penalties =====
Any property owner or other person, firm, corporation, partnership, or entity violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a class C misdemeanor; it shall be a separate offense for each and every day within which a violation of any provision of this chapter is committed. Upon conviction, the violator shall be punished as provided by UCC 1.04.010.


===== 8.18.050 Appeals =====
There is hereby created a Building Board of Appeals of Utah County (the “Board”) to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions or determinations made by the building official relative to the application and interpretation of the Construction Code adopted under UCC 8.18. The members of the Board shall be appointed by the County Commission and shall serve until replaced or a resignation is accepted by the commission. Members shall be administered the oath of office after being appointed but before taking part in any deliberations of the Board. The Board shall consist of five (5) members who are qualified by training and experience to pass on matters pertaining to building construction and are not employees of the County. There must be a minimum of three (3) members to form a quorum. The chair, or the acting chair, shall conduct all hearings and may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. The Secretary of the Community Development Department shall be the Secretary of the Board and shall keep minutes of the proceedings showing the vote of each member upon each question or, if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact; and shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions. These minutes and records, along with the appeal application, written statements, and other facts bearing on the appeal and decision of the Board, shall be filed in the office of the Board and shall be public record. The Secretary shall make an audio recording of the proceedings of the Board, and a transcription may be requested from the Secretary. The Board shall establish rules relating to such requests, including a reasonable compensation to be paid to the Secretary for making the transcription. The Secretary shall oversee the making of the transcript and shall be responsible for maintaining the integrity of the audio recording. Where more than one (1) record exists or is purported to exist, a transcription caused to be prepared by the Secretary and certified to its accuracy before a notary public, shall be the official record of the proceedings of the Board. Any person or entity wishing to appeal a decision made in applying the Construction Code may commence such action by completing the standard forms and filing the forms in the office of the Secretary of the Board. The Secretary of the Board shall accept and process such forms only if they are properly completed and accompanied by the filing fee in the current amount set by the County Commission. Any appeal of a decision made in applying the Construction Code must be properly filed in accordance with Subsection E, or it shall be time-barred and not heard. The Board shall fix a reasonable time for hearing the appeal and decide the same. The Board shall set a standard procedure for conducting public hearings and reviewing requests before the Board, which may include: reasonable limits of time in which appellants, respondents, and other parties may speak; sign-up sheets for those who wish to speak at the public hearing (and cut off times for adding names); deadlines for submitting written comment; and other rules needed to conduct a fair and orderly hearing. The decision of the Board shall be based upon the facts and not upon expressions of support or protest, or lack of support or protest, which may be made at the hearing. Any party may appear at the hearing in person or by agent or by attorney. An appeal shall be considered only when the Board finds full compliance with and completion of the forms, procedures, and rules. Reversal of any order, requirement, decision, or determination made in administering or interpreting the Construction Code, shall require the concurring vote of a majority of the members of the Board hearing the matter. When an appeal is approved, the Board shall enter into the official minutes the specific reasons for approval, any conditions or limitations of the approval, and the names of those voting for and against. If the decision of the Board is to deny an appeal, the Board shall enter into the official minutes the specific reasons for denial and the names of those voting for and against. The Board shall not grant the relief appealed for unless it finds that all of the following standards have been met: Prior to filing the appeal with the Board, the Board shall lack jurisdiction and shall not hear the appeal unless, within ten (10) calendar days of the date of the decision being appealed, the appellant provided to the Building Official, or other person or entity which made the decision in question, a claim of error which fully sets forth a brief statement of the facts, and the nature of the claim of error. Within fifteen (15) calendar days of the date of the decision being appealed, the Building Official, or other person or entity which made the decision in question may, but is not required to, respond in writing to the claim of error. The claim of error shall be deemed denied if the Building Official, or other person or entity which made the decision in question, fails to approve or deny the claim of error or otherwise respond. A copy of the claim of error, and any response received, shall be attached to the appeal application. If the Board finds that the claim of error was timely filed, the Board shall not grant the reversal or relief appealed for unless it finds that all of the following standards have been met: The appellant has filed a properly completed written application for appeal, which states with specificity the nature of the alleged error and how the appellant has been adversely affected by said alleged error. The application for appeal was properly filed with the Secretary of the Board twenty (20) calendar days or less after the date of the decision being appealed. This twenty (20) calendar day filing deadline is jurisdictional and the Board shall dismiss the appeal if the Board finds that the application for appeal filing deadline has not been met. The appellant is a party which was adversely affected by the subject decision applying the Construction Code. If the Board grants the appellant’s request, the result will be consistent with the provisions of the Construction Code, and not waive or modify any of the terms or requirements thereof. The applicant has the burden of proving that an error was made; however, expressions of support or protest alone shall not constitute the basis of approval or denial. The Board shall presume that the order, requirement, decision, or determination made in the administration or determination of the Construction Code is valid; and determine only whether or not the order, requirement, decision, or determination is arbitrary, capricious, or illegal. An order, requirement, decision, or determination is valid if the decision is supported by substantial evidence in the record and is not arbitrary, capricious, or illegal. A determination of illegality requires a determination that the order, requirement, decision, or determination violates a law, statute, or ordinance in effect at the time the order, requirement, decision, or determination was made. If there is a record, the Board’s review is limited to the record provided; and the Board may not accept or consider any evidence outside the record, unless that evidence was previously offered and it was improperly excluded. If there is no record, the Board may call witnesses and take evidence. After a decision has been made, the secretary shall file the written decision of the Board in the Community Development Office and mail a copy of the decision to the applicant at the address supplied in the application form. The decision of the Board shall be deemed final at the time it is filed in the Community Development Office. Any person adversely affected by any decision of the Board may file a petition with the 4th District Court for Utah County for a review of that decision. Any such appeal or petition shall be barred unless it is filed within twenty (20) calendar days of the date when the decision was filed in the Community Development Office. The petition shall be limited to the allegation that the decision of the Board was arbitrary, capricious, or illegal. The Board shall transmit to the reviewing court the complete record of its proceedings, including applications, exhibits, minutes, findings, orders, and any transcript of audio recordings which may be on file with the Board. The person or entity filing the petition for review shall request from the Secretary to the Board a verbatim transcript of the record and such person or entity shall pay the reasonable transcription fees as set by the Board. If there is a record, the review of the District Court is limited to the record, and the Court may not accept or consider evidence outside of the record unless it determines that such evidence was offered to the Board and improperly excluded. If there is no record, the Court may call witnesses and take evidence. The Court shall affirm the decision of the Board if the decision is supported by substantial evidence in the record. Filing a petition for review with the Court does not automatically stay the decision of the Board. Before filing the petition for review with the Court, the aggrieved party may petition the Board to stay its decision. The Board shall take action on any petition to stay only in a meeting where proper notice was given and where a quorum is present. Upon considering such petition to stay, the Board may grant the stay if it finds such to be in the best interests of the County. After filing a petition for review with the Court, the petitioner may seek from the Court an injunction staying the decision of the Board. No decision of the Board shall be subject to rehearing by the Board, except when remanded from a court of competent jurisdiction.


===== 8.18.060 Agricultural Structure Exemption =====
Any person who asserts that a proposed structure is exempt from the building permit requirements pursuant to the agriculture use exemption contained in Utah Code § 15A-1-204, shall file an application for exemption with the Utah County Community Development Division. The Community Development Division and the Building Official shall review the application and make a determination if the proposed structure qualifies for the exemption. Any structure built or constructed without first making application for and obtaining the necessary exception approval shall be subject to the applicable fines as adopted under the most current Utah County Government Fee Schedule.


===== 8.18.070 Fees =====
Fees associated with UCC 8.18, are found in the most recently adopted Utah County Government Fee Schedule and Ordinance.


===== 8.18.080 Review Of Single-Family Residential Building Permit Inspection =====
As used in this section, "International Residential Code" means the International Residential Code adopted by the Utah State Construction Code under Utah Code § 15A-2-103. Upon request by a person seeking a single-family residential building permit, the Director of Community Development or designee, as the designee of the County Commission, shall, with reasonable diligence, review an inspection conducted by the County's building inspector for a single-family residential building permit to determine whether the inspection constitutes a fair administration of the International Residential Code. A review described in this section: is separate and unrelated to an appeal under the International Residential Code; may not be used to review a matter that may be brought by appeal under the International Residential Code; may not result in the waiver or modification of an International Residential Code requirement or standard; may not conflict with an appeal, or the result of an appeal, under the International Residential Code; and does not prohibit a person from bringing an appeal under the International Residential Code. A person who seeks a review described in this section may not be prohibited by preclusion, estoppel, or otherwise from raising an issue or bringing a claim in an appeal under the International Residential Code on the grounds that the person raised the issue or brought the claim in the review described in this section.


===== 8.19 Stormwater =====
8.19.010 General Provisions 8.19.020 Land Disturbance Permits 8.19.030 Stormwater System Design And Management Standards 8.19.040 Post Construction 8.19.050 Waivers 8.19.060 Existing Locations And Developments. 8.19.070 Illicit Discharges And Connections. 8.19.080 Enforcement Actions And Penalties. 8.19.090 Penalties 8.19.100 Appeals HISTORY Adopted by Ord. 2023-921 Enacted Stormwater on 9/13/2023 Amended by Ord. 2025-247 Updated Stormwater on 3/5/2025


===== 8.19.010 General Provisions =====
As used in this chapter: “As-built plans” means drawings depicting conditions as they were constructed. “Best management practices”(BMPs) means the physical, structural, and managerial
practices, when used singly or in combination, to prevent or reduce pollution of water,
which are approved by the County and incorporated by reference into this chapter as if
fully set out herein. For purposes of this chapter, the relevant BMPs are more
particularly defined in the most recent version of the Utah County Guidance Document
for Stormwater Management. “Channel” means a natural or artificial watercourse with a definite bed and banks that
conducts flowing water continuously or periodically. “Contaminant” means any physical, chemical, biological, or radiological substance, or
matter in water. "County Engineer" means the Utah County Engineer and designees.
 “Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System” and "MS4" means the conveyances owned or
operated by the County for the collection and transportation of stormwater, including
roads and streets and their drainage systems, catch basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, manmade channels, stormwater ponds, basins, wetlands, and storm drains, that are designed or used for collecting or conveying storm water, which is not a combined
sewer, and which is not part of a Publicly Owned Treatment Works as defined in40 CFR
122.2. “Design storm event” means the eightieth (80") percentile rainfall event whose
precipitation is greater than or equal to the eightieth (80") percent of all storm events
over a given period of record. This event is used to determine the rainfall depth for
calculation of water quality volume for which designers can choose LID techniques to
infiltrate, evapotranspire, or harvest the reuse of the runoff generated. “Discharge” means dispose, deposit, spill, pour, inject, seep, dump, leak, or place by any
means any solid or liquid matter, or solid or liquid matter which is disposed, deposited,
spilled, poured, injected, seeped, dumped, leaked, or placed by any means including any
direct or indirect entry into the County separate storm sewer system. “Easement” means an acquired legal privilege or right of use or enjoyment that a
person, party, firm, corporation, municipality, or other legal entity has in the property of
another. “Erosion” means the removal of soil particles by the action of water, wind, ice, or other
geological agents, whether naturally occurring or acting in conjunction with or
promoted by human activities or effects. “Erosion and Sediment Control Plan” means a written plan, including drawings or other
graphic representations, designed to minimize the accelerated erosion and sediment
runoff at a site during construction activities. “IIlicit connections” means illegal or unauthorized connections to the County separate
stormwater system, regardless of whether such connections result in discharges into
that system. “Illicit discharge” means any discharge to the County Separate Storm Sewer System that
is not composed entirely of uncontaminated stormwater and not specifically exempted
under the UPDES permit. “Impaired waters” means those waters (rivers, lakes, and streams) that currently do not
meet their designated use classification and associated water quality standards under
the Clean Water Act. “Irrigation ditches and canals” means gravity irrigation ditches and canals used by
irrigation shareowners having a right of water passageway by right of way, easement, or
prescription. “Land disturbance permit” means the land disturbance permit as adopted or issued by
the County. “Land disturbing activity” means any activity on property that results in a change in the
existing vegetative or non-vegetative soil cover, or in the existing soil topography,
including but are not limited to, development, redevelopment, demolition, construction,
reconstruction, clearing, grading, filling, or excavation. “Low impact development” and LID means an approach to land development or redevelopment that works with nature to more closely mimic pre-development hydrologic functions. LID employs principals such as preserving and recreating natural landscape
features, minimizing effective imperviousness to create functional and appealing site
drainage that treat stormwater as a resource rather than a waste product. There are
many practices that have been used to adhere to these principles such as bio retention
facilities, rain gardens, vegetated roof tops, rain barrels, and permeable pavements. “Maintenance” means any activity that is necessary to keep a stormwater facility in
good working condition to function as designed. “Maintenance” may include complete
reconstruction of a stormwater facility if reconstruction is needed to restore the facility
to its original operational design parameters, and the correction of any problem on the
site property which may directly impair the functions of the stormwater system or
facility. “Maintenance agreement” means a document recorded in the land records which acts
as a property deed restriction, and which provides for long-term maintenance of
stormwater management practices. “Minimum control measure” and MCM means the six (6) areas of focus the EPA identified for
MS4s in developing a program to minimize the potential for pollutants to leave a
jurisdiction and to enter the waters of the United States. The six (6) areas of focus are: Public Education and Outreach; Public Involvement; Illicit Discharge Detection and Elimination; Construction Site Storm Water Control; Post Construction Storm Water Control; and Pollution Prevention and Good Housekeeping. “Notice of violation” and "NOV" means a notice issued to a person or entity whenever the
County Engineer finds the person or entity is not complying with this chapter. The
County will order compliance by written notice of violation to the responsible person.
Requirements in this notice are at the discretion of the County Engineer and may
include monitoring, payment to cover costs relating to the noncompliance, and the
implementation of BMPs. “Off-site facility” means any structural BMPs located outside the subject property
boundary described in the permit application for land development activity.
 “Peak flow” means the maximum instantaneous rate of flow of water at a particular
point resulting from a storm event.
 “Person” means any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any individual, firm,
business entity or association, and any municipal or private corporation organized or
existing under the laws of the state of Utah or any other state or country.
 “Pre-existing conditions” means the conditions of property in its native state or changed
under approval by the County.
 “Priority area” means an area where land use or activities generate highly contaminated
runoff, with concentrations of pollutants in excess of those typically found in
stormwater.
 “Property owner” means the landowner of property within the unincorporated area of
the County.
 “Runoff” means that part of precipitation, snowmelt, or irrigation water that runs off
the land into streams or other surface water.
 “Sediment” means solid material, both mineral and organic, which is in suspension, is
being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by air, water, gravity, or ice
and has come to rest on the earth’s surface.
 “Sedimentation” means the process of subsidence and decomposition by gravity of
suspended matter carried by water, wastewater, or other liquids.
 “Soils report” means a study of soils on a subject property with the primary purpose of
characterizing and describing the soils. The soils report shall be prepared by a qualified
soil engineer or geologist, licensed in the state of Utah, who shall be directly involved in
the soil characterization either by performing the investigation or by directly supervising
employees.
 “Stabilization” means providing adequate vegetative or structural means to prevent
erosion.
 “Stormwater” means stormwater runoff, snow melt runoff, surface runoff, street wash
waters related to street cleaning or maintenance, infiltration, and drainage.
 “Stormwater design standards and regulations” means any current stormwater
standards and regulations adopted by the County.
 “Stormwater management” means the programs to maintain quality and quantity of
stormwater runoff to pre-development levels.
 “Stormwater management facilities system” means the drainage structures, conduits,
ditches, combined sewers, sewers, and all device appurtenances by which stormwater is
collected, transported, pumped, treated, or disposed.
 “Stormwater pollution prevention plan” and SWPPP means the set of drawings and other
documents that comprise all the information and specifications for the programs,
drainage systems, structures, BMPs, concepts, and techniques intended to maintain or
restore quality and quantity of stormwater runoff to pre-development levels.
 “Stormwater runoff” means flow on the surface of the ground, resulting from
precipitation. “Structural BMPs” means practices which refer to devices constructed to control
stormwater runoff. “Surface water” means waters upon the surface of the earth in bounds created naturally
or artificially, including but not limited to, streams, other water courses, lakes, and
reservoirs.
 “TMDL” means total maximum daily load, in accordance with a program implemented
by the Utah Division of Water Quality.
 “UPDES” means the Utah Pollutant Discharge Elimination System administered by the
state of Utah, Division of Water Quality in regulation Utah Code Admin. R317-8.
 “Watershed” means all the land area that contributes runoff to a particular point along
a waterway. The purpose of this chapter is to: protect, maintain, and enhance the environment of the County;
 establish responsibilities for controlling and managing stormwater runoff;
 protect the public health, safety, and the general welfare of the citizens of the County,
by controlling the discharge of pollutants into the County’s stormwater system and to
maintain and improve the quality of the receiving waters into which the stormwater
outfalls flow, including, without limitation, lakes, rivers, streams, ponds, wetlands, and
groundwater of the County;
 facilitate the County’s compliance with the UPDES and applicable regulation, Utah Code Admin. R317-8, et seq., for stormwater discharges issued by the state of Utah, Division of Water Quality; and
 allow the County to exercise the powers granted by Utah Code, which provides that,
among other powers counties have with respect to stormwater facilities, counties may
by ordinance or resolution:
 exercise general regulation over the planning, location, construction, and
operation and maintenance of stormwater facilities in the County, whether
owned and operated by the County; adopt any rules and regulations deemed necessary to accomplish the
purposes of this Chapter, including the adoption of fees for services and
permits; establish standards to regulate the quantity of stormwater discharged and to
also regulate stormwater contaminants as may be necessary to protect water
quality; review and approve plans and plats in proposed subdivisions or commercial
developments for stormwater management; issue permits for stormwater discharges or for the construction, alteration,
extension, or repair of stormwater facilities; suspend or revoke permits or licenses when it is determined that the
permittee has violated any applicable law, chapter, regulation, or condition of
the permit; take enforcement actions for violations of this chapter or of the conditions of
the permit as specified in Utah Code § 19-5-108.3. regulate and prohibit discharges into:
 stormwater facilities of sanitary, industrial, or commercial sewage;
 waters that have otherwise been contaminated; or
 non-stormwater, except as allowed under the UPDES stormwater
discharge permit; and expend funds to remediate or mitigate the detrimental effects of
contaminated land or other sources of stormwater contamination, whether
publicly or privately owned. The County Engineer shall administer the provisions of this chapter. Nothing in this Code shall
relieve any person from responsibility for damages or injury to other persons or property, nor
impose upon the County, its officers, agents, or employees any liability for damages or injury to
other persons or property.


===== 8.19.020 Land Disturbance Permits =====
Every person will be required to obtain a land disturbance permit from the County Engineer in
the following cases: land disturbing activity generally affecting one (1) or more acres of land;
 land disturbing activity affecting less than one (1) acre of land if the activity is part of a
larger common plan of development or sale of which collectively affects one (1) or more
acres of land;
 land disturbing activity affecting less than one (1) acre of land, if in the discretion of the
County Engineer such activity poses a unique threat to water or public health or safety;
 the creation and use of borrow pits; or
 processing earthen materials such as topsoil and gravel screening.
 Drainage channels, waterways, and critical environment zones. Property owners shall not alter or restrict drainage channels, waterways, and irrigation
ditches and canals without proper federal, state, county, or local irrigations company or
association permits.
 Modifications of critical environmental zones are subject to and governed by Chapter 12
of the Utah County Land Use Ordinance and land disturbance permits are issued by the
County Engineer. These modifications require a land disturbance permit and approval
from all appropriate governing agencies.
 Property owners proposing to redirect runoff, surface, or pipe flow to properties or
facilities outside County boundaries must provide written approval from the state,
county, neighboring county, or municipality affected.
 Property owners are responsible for the protection of irrigation ditches and canals as
provided by the relevant sections of this chapter.
 Discharges into or modifications of irrigation ditches and canals requires written
approval from the irrigation ditches and canals’ owner and applicable governing
agencies.
 No building permit shall be issued until the applicant has obtained a land disturbance permit
where one is required by this chapter. The land disturbance permit under this chapter replaces the grading permit required under the
Utah County Land Use Ordinance.
 The following activities are exempt from land disturbance permit requirements: any emergency activity that is immediately necessary for the protection of life, property,
or natural resources;
 existing nursery and agricultural operations conducted as a permitted main or accessory
use;
 any agricultural activity that is consistent with an approved farm conservation plan or a
management plan prepared or is approved by the appropriate county, federal, or state
agency;
 additions or modifications to existing single family structures; and
 minor residential landscaping and gardening so long as county right-of-way and adjacent
property owners are not adversely affected. Application for a land disturbance permit. Each application shall include the following: name of applicant;
 business or residence address of applicant; name, address, and telephone number of the owner of the property of record
in the office of the County recorder;
 address and legal description of subject property, including the tax serial
number of the subject property;
 name, address, and telephone number of the contractor and any
subcontractor(s) who shall perform the land disturbing activity and who shall
implement the erosion and sediment control plan; and
 a statement indicating the nature, extent, and purpose of the land disturbing
activity including the size of the area for which the permit shall be applicable
and a schedule for the starting and completion dates of the land disturbing
activity. If required by this chapter, each application shall be accompanied by:
 a SWPPP providing for stormwater management during the land disturbing
activity and after the activity has been completed;
 a sediment and erosion control plan as part of the SWPPP; evidence of a state UPDES general permit for construction activities issued by
the Utah Division of Water Quality, if so required; for smaller UPDES exempt projects, an effective erosion control plan shall be
submitted with associated construction activities in accordance with County
land disturbance standards. The applicant shall obtain from all applicable state or federal agencies all required
environmental permits or approvals that pertain to the subject property, including the
following: compliance with water quality standards and TMDL requirements;
 compliance with federal or state laws pertaining to threatened or endangered
species or historic properties; and
 any additional development requirements or conditions required by the
County Engineer in accordance with this Code or other applicable law on the
development of property.
 Each application for a land disturbance permit shall be accompanied by payment for the
land disturbance permit fees and other stormwater management fees, as established by
the County and found inthe Utah County Government Fee Schedule.
 Review and approval of application. The County Engineer will review each application for a land disturbance permit to
determine whether it conforms with this chapter. Within fourteen (14) calendar days after
receiving an application, the County Engineer shall provide one of the following
responses in writing:
 approval of the permit application;
 approval of the permit application, subject to such reasonable conditions as
may be necessary to comply with the objectives of this chapter; or
 denial of the permit application, stating the reason(s) for the denial.
 No development plans will be approved until the land disturbance permit has been
approved. Every land disturbance permit shall expire and become null and void if substantial work
authorized by such permit has not commenced within one hundred-eighty (180) calendar days
of issuance, or if work is not complete within eighteen (18) months from the date of the
issuance of the land disturbance permit.
 The applicant must notify the County Engineer in writing ten (10) business days before
beginning construction. Regular inspections of the construction site shall be conducted by the
County Engineer. All inspections shall be documented, and written reports shall be prepared
containing the following information:
 the date and location of the inspection;
 whether construction complies with the approved SWPPP;
 variations from the approved construction specifications; and
 any violations.
 Performance bonds and cash bonds.
 The County Engineer may, at his or her discretion, require the applicant to post a
performance bond, or cash bond before a land disturbance permit is issued to ensure
stormwater practices are met as required by the approved SWPPP.
 The amount of the installation or performance bond and cash bond shall be the total
estimated construction cost of the structural BMPs approved under the permit including
any reasonably foreseeable additional related costs, such as for damages or
enforcement activities.
 The performance security shall contain forfeiture provisions for failure to complete the
work specified in the stormwater management plan.
 The applicant shall provide an itemized construction cost estimate complete with unit
prices, subject to acceptance, amendment, or rejection by the County Engineer.
 The County Engineer shall have the discretion to calculate or amend the applicant’s
estimated cost of construction cost.
 The performance bond, or cash bond shall be released in full only upon submission of
as-built plans that the structural BMPs has been installed in accordance with the
approved plan and this chapter and any other chapter of this Code and written
certification by a registered professional engineer licensed in the state of Utah.
 The County Engineer shall make a final inspection of the structural BMPs to ensure it
complies with the approved plan and this chapter. A partial pro-rata release of the
performance bond or cash bond based on the completion of various development
stages may be made at the discretion of the County Engineer.


===== 8.19.030 Stormwater System Design And Management Standards =====
Stormwater design and BMP manuals.
 The County adopts the following publications as its Stormwater Design and BMPs
Manuals, which are incorporated by reference in this chapter:
 Storm Water Management Plan;
 Storm Water Design and BMP Manuals;
 Utah County Current Standard Drawings and Specifications;
 A Guide to Low Impact Development within Utah; and
 additional stormwater manuals as adopted by the County.
 These manuals include a list of acceptable BMPs. The BMPs Manuals may be updated
and expanded from time to time at the discretion of the County Commission upon the
recommendation of the County Engineer, based on improvements in engineering,
science, monitoring, and local maintenance experience. Stormwater facilities designed,
constructed, and maintained in accordance with these BMPs criteria and manufacturer's
recommendations will be presumed to meet the minimum water quality performance
standards. Unless a site is granted a waiver or determined by the County Engineer to be exempt, the
following post-construction performance criteria shall be addressed for stormwater
management at all sites:
 The design of storm drain systems within the boundaries of or discharging into a County
stormwater management facilities system shall be supervised by a Utah registered
professional engineer and shall carry the seal of the supervising professional engineer.
 All systems shall be designed to permit control of the peak flow rates of stormwater
discharge associated with storm levels specified in this chapter and in the BMPs
Manuals and to reduce the generation of post-construction stormwater runoff back to
preconstruction levels. These designs must utilize impervious areas for stormwater
treatment to the extent possible and infiltrate stormwater runoff from driveways,
sidewalks, rooftops, parking lots, and landscaped areas to the maximum extent practical
to provide treatment for both water quality and quantity.
 To protect stream channels from degradation, specific channel protection criteria shall
be provided as prescribed in the BMPs Manual and UPDES Permit.
 Stormwater discharges to critical environmental zones with sensitive resources such as
cold-water fisheries, swimming beaches, recharge areas, or water supply reservoirs may
besubject to additional performance criteria or may need to utilize or restrict certain
stormwater management practices.
 Stormwater discharges from priority areas may require the application of specific
structural BMPs and pollution prevention practices.
 Prior to or during the site design process, applicants for land disturbance permits shall
consult with the County Engineer to determine if additional stormwater design
requirements are needed.
 The methodology for Project Retention Water Quality Volume as found in the Storm
Water Design Manual shall be used for determining the size of all stormwater and LID
facilities.
 Minimum control requirements.
 Stormwater discharge during all construction activities shall comply with the terms of
the land disturbance permit, the Storm Water Design Standards and Regulations, and
requirements established by the County adopted version of the International Building
Code, and the state of Utah UPDES. Stormwater LID designs for new development projects that disturb land
greater than or equal to one (1) acre, including projects that are part of a
larger common plan of development or sale which collectively disturbs land
greater than or equal to one (1) acre, must manage rainfall on-site and
prevent the off-site discharge of the precipitation from all rainfall events less
than or equal to the eightieth (80 th ) percentile rainfall event or a
predevelopment hydrologic condition, whichever is less.
 Stormwater LID designs for redevelopment projects that disturb greater than
or equal to one (1) acre, including projects less than an acre that are part of a
larger common plan of development or sale which collectively disturbs land
greater than or equal to one (1) acre, must provide a site-specific and project specific plan aimed at net gain to onsite retention or a reduction to
impervious surface to provide similar water quality benefits.
 If a redevelopment project increases the impervious surface by greater than
ten percent (10%), the project shall manage rainfall on-site and prevent the
off-site discharge of the net increase in the volume associated with the
precipitation from all rainfall events less than or equal to the eightieth (80 th )
percentile rainfall event. If meeting this retention standard for new development or redevelopment is
technically infeasible, a rationale shall be provided on a case-by-case basis for
the alternative design criteria. The project must document and quantify that
infiltration, evapotranspiration, and rainwater harvesting have been used to
the maximum extent technically feasible and that full employment of these
controls are infeasible due to site constraints.
 The LID analysis shall be included as part of the County site plan review
process. Integration of LID principles shall be incorporated in the initial
planning stages of the development or project.
 Runoff rates from one lot to another may not exceed pre-existing conditions or
unreasonably and unnecessarily cause more harm than pre-existing conditions.
 If hydrologic or topographic conditions warrant greater control than provided by the
minimum control requirements, the County Engineer may impose any and all additional
requirements determined necessary to control the volume, timing, and rate of runoff.
 Stormwater management plan requirements.
 Property owners are responsible to manage stormwater runoff and sediment which
traverse or originate on their property, whether in conduit systems or on the surface,
unless this responsibility is relinquished through the terms and conditions of an
easement.
 The SWPPP must be retained on-site and shall include sufficient information to allow
the County Engineer to evaluate:
 the environmental characteristics of the project site;
 the potential water resource impacts of all proposed present and future
development of the site; and
 the effectiveness and acceptability of the measures proposed for managing
stormwater generated at the project site.
 The SWPPP shall include the following:
 A description of the construction activity including:
 the intended sequence of major activities which disturb soils for major
portions of the site;
 an estimate of the total area of the site and the area expected to be
disturbed by excavation, grading, or other activities; and
 written procedures for trash control including building materials,
concrete truck washout, chemicals, litter, and sanitary waste.
 A topographic base map of the project site, indicating the project address, 
and scaled such that it extends a minimum of two hundred fifty (250) feet beyond the limits of the proposed development and indicates: existing surface water drainage including streams, ponds, culverts,
ditches, sink holes, and wetlands and showing the type, size, and
elevation of nearest upstream and downstream drainage structures;
 construction boundaries and a description of existing vegetation prior to
grading activities;
 areas of soil disturbance and areas of no disturbance;
 current land use including all existing structures, locations of utilities,
roads, and easements;
 the location of areas used for construction support;
 the location of areas where stabilization practices are expected to
occur;
 the location of areas where stormwater is discharged or will discharge
to a surface water;
 all other existing significant natural and artificial features;
 proposed land use with tabulation of the percentage of surface area to
be adapted to: various uses; drainage patterns; locations of utilities,
roads, and easements; and the limits of clearing and grading; and
 proposed structural and non-structural BMPs.
 The topographic base map must include a written description of the site plan,
and, if required by the County Engineer because of the complexity of the
project, a justification of proposed changes in natural conditions.
 Hydrologic and hydraulic design calculations for the predevelopment and
post-development conditions for the eightieth (80 th ) percentile design storm
event as specified in this chapter and the BMPs Manuals. These calculations
must show the proposed stormwater management measures are capable of
controlling runoff from the site in compliance with this chapter and the
guidelines of the BMPs Manuals. Such calculations shall include:
 a determination of the eightieth (80 th ) percentile rainfall depth as
obtained from annual daily data from an active rain gauge near project
site, having at least thirty (30) years of data and having eightieth (80 th )
percentile data coverage for the period of record as described in the
Stormwater Design Manual;
 a determination of the project’s imperviousness;
 a determination of the Volumetric Runoff Coefficient;
 a calculation the Project Retention Water Quality Volume;
 infiltration rates, where applicable;
 culvert, stormwater sewer, ditch and other stormwater conveyance
Capacities;
 flow velocities; and
 documentation of sources for all computation methods and field test
results. If SWPPP control measures depend on the hydrologic properties of soils, such
as infiltration basins, a soils report must be included. The soils report must be
based on on-site boring logs or soil pit profiles and soil survey reports. The
number and location of required soil borings or soil pits shall be determined
based on what is reasonably needed to determine the suitability and
distribution of soil types present at the location of the control measure.
 Location of stormwater velocity dissipation devices placed at discharge
locations and along the length of any outfall channel to provide a non-erosive
flow velocity from the structure to a waterway.
 Plans and methods for minimizing off-site tracking and the generation of dust.
 Detailed maintenance and repair procedures to ensure continued
performance. These procedures will identify the parts or components of a
SWPPP facility to be maintained and the equipment and skills or training
necessary. Provisions for the periodic review and evaluation of the
effectiveness of the maintenance program and the need for revisions or
additional maintenance procedures must be included in the plan. A
permanent elevation benchmark must be identified in the procedures to
assist in the periodic inspection of the facility.
 A detailed plan for management of vegetation at the site after construction is
finished, including the persons or entities responsible for the maintenance of
vegetation at the site and the practices employed to ensure that adequate
vegetative cover is preserved. Where required by the BMP, this plan must be
prepared by a registered landscape architect licensed in the state of Utah.
 Requirement to Maintain a Current SWPPP.
 The applicant shall keep the SWPPP current. If there is a change in design, construction,
Operation, or maintenance of BMPs, the applicant must amend the SWPPP accordingly. If the County Engineer determines the SWPPP to be ineffective in controlling
stormwater pollutants, the County Engineer may require the applicant to
modify the SWPPP.
 The SWPPP must be modified by the applicant whenever a new owner or
operator becomes responsible for implementing the SWPPP.
 If a SWPPP has been completed for a proposed development, subsequent
applicants may utilize portions of the original SWPPP with appropriate site specific modifications.
 The applicant must ensure access to the site for the purpose of inspection and repair by securing
all the maintenance easements needed and transferring those easements by deed to the
County. Easements are binding on the current property owner and all subsequent owners,
agents, and assigns and shall be properly recorded by the applicant The owner of property to be served by an on-site stormwater management facility shall execute
an Inspection and Maintenance Agreement that shall operate as a deed restriction binding on
the current property owner and all subsequent property owners, agents, and assigns. The
Inspection and Maintenance Agreement must: Assign responsibility for the maintenance and repair of the stormwater facility to the
owner of the property upon which the facility is located and be recorded as such on the
plat for the property by appropriate notation.
Require the property owner to have periodic inspections performed on the Stormwater Facilities for the purpose of documenting maintenance and repair needs and ensuring
compliance with the purpose and requirements of this chapter.
 The property owner shall cause this inspection to be conducted at its sole cost
and expense. The property owner shall submit an inspection report and certification to the
County Engineer annually. Grant permission to the County to enter the property at reasonable times and inspect
the stormwater facility to ensure it is being properly maintained.
 Provide minimum maintenance and repair needs including, but are not limited to:
 the removal of silt, litter, and other debris;
 grass cuttings; and
 waste and vegetation removal.
 Leave in place the landscape vegetation in detention and retention basins and inlets and
drainage pipes and other stormwater facilities.
 Provide a provision that the property owner shall be responsible for additional
maintenance and repair needs consistent with the needs and standards outlined in the
BMPs Manuals.
 Provide that maintenance needs must be addressed in a timely manner, on a schedule
to be determined by the County Engineer.
 Provide if the property is not maintained or repaired within the prescribed schedule, the
County Engineer shall perform the maintenance and repair at its expense and bill the
cost thereof to the property owner. The maintenance agreement must also provide the
County Engineer’s cost of performing the maintenance shall be a lien against the
property.
 The County Commission shall have the discretion to accept the dedication of any existing or
future stormwater management facility, provided such facility meets the requirements of this
chapter and includes adequate and perpetual access and sufficient areas, by easement or
otherwise, for inspection and regular maintenance. Any stormwater facility accepted by the
County must also meet the County’s construction standards and any other standards and
specifications which apply to the particular stormwater facility in question.
 The applicant must prepare a SWPPP for all construction activities that complies with this
chapter and which accurately describes the potential for soil erosion and sedimentation
problems resulting from land disturbing activity and shall explain and illustrate the measures to
be taken to control these problems. The length and specificity of the plan shall be
commensurate with the size of the project, the site condition, and potential for off-site damage.
The plan shall be prepared under seal by a registered professional engineer licensed in the state
of Utah. The plan shall also conform to the requirements found in the BMPs Manual and shall
include at least the following:
 a description of the intended project and proposed land disturbing activity including
number of units and structures to be constructed, and infrastructure required;
 a topographic map with contour intervals of five (5) feet or less showing present
conditions and proposed contours resulting from land disturbing activity;
 all existing drainage ways, including intermittent and wet-weather ways, with any
designated floodways or floodplains;
 a general description of existing land cover, not to include individual trees and shrubs;
 stands of existing trees as they are to be preserved upon project completion, specifying
their general location on the property. Differentiation shall be made between existing
trees to be preserved, trees to be removed and proposed planted trees. Tree protection
measures must be identified, and the diameter of the area involved must also be
identified on the plan and shown to scale. Information shall be included concerning the
proposed destruction of exceptional and historic trees in setbacks and buffer strips
where they exist. Complete landscape plans may be submitted separately. The plan
must include the sequence of implementation for tree protection measures,
 approximate limits of proposed clearing, grading, and filling;
 approximate flows of existing stormwater leaving any portion of the site;
 a general description of existing soil types and characteristics and any anticipated soil
erosion and sedimentation problems resulting from existing characteristics;
 location, size, and layout of proposed stormwater and sedimentation control
improvements;
 proposed drainage network;
 proposed drain tile or waterway sizes; approximate flows leaving site after construction and incorporating water run-off
mitigation measures. The evaluation must include projected effects on property
adjoining the site and on existing drainage facilities and systems. The plan must address:
 the adequacy of outfalls from the development;
 when water is concentrated, the capacity of waterways, if any, accepting
stormwater offsite; and
 the measures, including infiltration, sheeting into buffers and other measures
used to prevent the scouring of waterways and drainage areas off-site; the projected sequence of work represented by the grading, drainage, and
sedimentation and erosion control plans relating to other major items of construction,
beginning excavation, and including the construction of any sediment basins or
retention facilities or any other structural BMPs;
 specific remediation measures to prevent erosion and sedimentation run-off. Plans shall
include detailed drawings of all control measures used and stabilization measures
including both temporary and permanent vegetation and non-vegetation measures.
Detailed construction notes and a maintenance schedule shall be included for all control
measures in the plan;
 specific details for the construction of rock pads, wash down pads, and settling basins
for controlling erosion; road access points; and eliminating or keeping soil, sediment,
and debris on streets and public ways at a level acceptable to the County Engineer. Soil,
sediment, and debris brought onto streets and public ways must be removed by the end
of the workday by machine, broom, or shovel to the satisfaction of the County Engineer.
Failure to remove the sediment, soil, or debris shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter;
 location and identification of any proposed additional buildings, structures, or
development on the site; and
 a description of on-site measures to be taken to recharge surface water into the ground
water system through infiltration.


===== 8.19.040 Post Construction =====
As-built plans.
 All applicants are required to submit actual as-built plans for any structures located onsite within sixty (60) days after final construction is completed.
 The plan must show the final design specifications for all stormwater management
facilities and must be prepared under seal by a registered professional engineer licensed
to practice in the state of Utah.
 A final inspection by the County Engineer is required before any performance bond or
cash bond will be released.
 The County Engineer shall have the discretion to adopt provisions for a partial pro-rata
release oftheperformance bond or cash bond on the completion of various stages of
development.
 A Certificate of Occupancy shall not begranted until corrections to all BMPs have been
made and accepted by the County Engineer.
 Landscaping and stabilization requirements. Any area of land from which the natural vegetative cover has been either partially or
wholly cleared by development activities shall be revegetated according to a schedule
approved by the County Engineer.
 The following criteria shall apply to revegetation efforts:
 Reseeding must be done with an annual or perennial cover crop accompanied
by placement of straw mulch or its equivalent of sufficient coverage to control
erosion until such time as the cover crop is established on more than seventy
percent (70%) of the seeded area.
 Replanting with native woody and herbaceous vegetation must be
accompanied by placement of straw mulch or its equivalent of sufficient
coverage to control erosion until the plantings are established and are capable
of controlling erosion.
 In addition to the above requirements, a landscaping plan must be submitted with the
final design describing the vegetative stabilization and management techniques to be
used at the site after construction is completed.
 The landscaping plan shall explain:
 how the site will be stabilized after construction;
 who will be responsible for the maintenance of vegetation at the site and
 what practices will be employed to ensure that adequate vegetative cover is
preserved.
 Inspection of stormwater management facilities.
 Periodic inspections of facilities shall be performed by the County Engineer to determine
and ensure that the facilities:
 are adequately maintained;
 continue to perform in an adequate manner; and
 are in compliance with applicable law and the inspection and maintenance
agreement.
 Such inspections shall be conducted in a reasonable manner, at reasonable times, and
upon reasonable notice to responsible parties as determined by the County Engineer.
 Records of installation and maintenance activities.
 Parties responsible for the operation and maintenance of a stormwater management
facility shall make records of the installation and of all maintenance and repairs to the
facility and shall retain the records for at least three (3) years.
 The records required in Subsection D1 shall be made available to the County Engineer
during inspection of the facility and at other reasonable times upon request.
 Failure to meet or maintain design or maintenance standards.
 If a responsible party fails or refuses to meet the design or maintenance standards
required for stormwater facilities under this chapter, the County Engineer, after
reasonable notice, may correct a violation of the design standards or maintenance
needs by performing all necessary work to place the facility in proper working condition. If the stormwater management facility becomes a danger to public safety or public
health, the County Engineer shall notify in writing the party responsible for maintenance
of the stormwater management facility. Upon receipt of the notice, the responsible
person shall have fifteen (15) calendar days to effect maintenance and repair of the
facility in an approved manner. In the event the corrective action is not undertaken
within that time, the County Engineer may take necessary corrective action. The cost of any activities by the County Engineer under this section shall be charged to
the property or facility owner.


===== 8.19.050 Waivers =====
General.
 Every applicant shall be responsible for all post-construction stormwater management
activities required by this chapter unless a request to waive this requirement is
approved.
 Requests to waive the stormwater management plan requirements shall be submitted
in writing to the County Engineer for approval.
 Conditions of waiver.
 The minimum requirements for stormwater management may be waived in whole or in
part upon written request of the applicant, provided that at least one of the following
conditions applies:
 the applicant demonstrates that the proposed development is not likely to
impair attainment of the purposes of this chapter under subsection B of UCC
8.09.010;
 alternative minimum requirements for on-site management of stormwater
discharges have been established in a stormwater management plan
approved by the County Engineer; or
 provisions are made to manage stormwater by an off-site facility which must
be currently in place and designed to provide the level of stormwater control
equal to or greater than controls afforded by on-site practices. The off-site
facility must be operated and maintained by an entity that is legally obligated
to continue the operation and maintenance of the facility.
 In addition, to receive a waiver, the applicant must demonstrate to the satisfaction of
the County Engineer that the waiver will not lead to any of the following conditions
downstream:
 deterioration of existing culverts, bridges, dams, and other structures;
 degradation of biological or ecological functions or habitat;
 accelerated streambank or streambed erosion or siltation;
 increased threat of flood damage to public health, life, or property; or
 degradation of receiving water quality.
 Land disturbance permit not to be issued where waiver is requested.
 No land disturbance permit will be issued where a waiver has been requested until the
waiver is granted. If no waiver is granted, the plans must be resubmitted with a SWPPP.
 For construction, an EPA low erosivity waiver or rainfall erosivity waiver may be used if
it is obtained in accordance with Appendix B.1 of the current Construction General
Permit as promulgated by the EPA. If this waiver is filed incorrectly with the state, the
owner of the property or the contractor over the construction will have seven (7)
calendar days to complete a SWPPP and file a NOI with the state. If either party does
not comply, enforcements or penalties will be taken in accordance with this chapter.


===== 8.19.060 Existing Locations And Developments. =====
The following requirements shall apply to all locations and developments where land disturbing
activities have occurred before enactment of this chapter:
 denuded areas must be vegetated or covered under the standards and guidelines
specified in the BMPs Manuals and on a schedule acceptable to the County Engineer;
 cuts and slopes must be properly covered with appropriate vegetation or retaining walls
constructed;
 drainage ways shall be properly covered in vegetation or secured with rip-rap, channel
lining, or other means capable of preventing erosion;
 trash, junk, and other materials shall be cleared from drainage ways;
 stormwater runoff shall be controlled to the extent reasonable to prevent pollution of
local waters. Such control measures may include, but are not limited to, the following:
 ponds, such as:
 detention pond;
 extended detention pond;
 wet pond; or
 alternative storage measures;
 constructed wetlands;
 infiltration systems, such as:
 infiltration/percolation trench;
 infiltration basin;
 drainage (recharge) well; or
 porous pavement;
 filtering systems, such as:
 catch basin inserts or media filter;
 sand filter;
 filter and absorption bed; or
 filter and buffer strips; and
 open channel, such as a swale.
 Requirements for all existing problem locations.
 The County Engineer shall notify in writing the owners of existing locations and
developments of:
 specific drainage, erosion, or sediment problems affecting such locations and
developments; and
 the specific actions required to correct those problems.
 The notice required in Subsection 1 shall also specify a reasonable time for compliance.
 Inspection of existing facilities.
 The County Engineer may, to the extent authorized by state and federal law or this
chapter, establish inspection programs to verify that all stormwater management
facilities, including those built before or after the adoption of this chapter, are
functioning within design limits.
 These inspection programs authorized in Subsection 1 may be established on any
reasonable basis, including but not limited to:
 routine inspections;
 random inspections;
 inspections based upon complaints or other notice of possible violations;
 inspection of drainage basins or areas identified as sources of sediment or
other contaminants or pollutants;
 inspections of businesses or industries of a type associated with higher than
usual discharges of contaminants or pollutants or with discharges of a type
which are likely to cause violations of the County’s UPDES stormwater permit;
and
 joint inspections with other agencies inspecting under environmental, safety,
or other laws.
 Inspections may include, but are not limited to;
 reviewing maintenance and repair records;
 sampling discharges, surface water, groundwater, and material or water in
drainage control facilities; and
 evaluating the condition of drainage control facilities and other BMPs.
 Corrective measures imposed by the County Engineer under this chapter may be appealed
according to the procedure in UCC 8.19.100.


===== 8.19.070 Illicit Discharges And Connections. =====
This section applies to all water generated on developed or undeveloped land entering the
municipal separate storm sewer systems.
 Illicit discharges.
 No person shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the municipal separate storm
sewer systems any discharge that is not composed entirely of uncontaminated
stormwater.
 The commencement, conduct, or continuance of any non-stormwater discharge to the
municipal separate storm sewer systems prohibited except as described as follows:
 Discharges from the following:
 water line flushing;
 landscape irrigation;
 diverted stream flows;
 rising ground waters;
 uncontaminated groundwater infiltration to municipal separate storm
sewer systems;
 uncontaminated pumped groundwater;
 discharges from potable water sources,
 uncontaminated footing and foundation drains;
 air conditioning condensate;
 irrigation water;
 lawn watering runoff;
 springs;
 uncontaminated water from crawl space pumps;
 individual residential car washing;
 flows from riparian habitats and wetlands;
 dechlorinated swimming pool discharges;
 residential street wash water;
 dechlorinated water reservoir discharges; or
 discharges or flows from emergency firefighting activity.
 Discharges specified in writing by the County Engineer as being necessary to
protect public health and safety.
 Dye testing is an allowable discharge if the County Engineer has so specified in
writing.
 The prohibition shall not apply to any non-stormwater discharge permitted
under an UPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered under the authority of the Utah State Division of
Water Quality, provided the discharger is in full compliance with all
requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other applicable laws and
regulations and provided that written approval has been granted for any
discharge to the storm drain system.
 The construction, use, maintenance, or continued existence of illicit connections to the
municipal separate storm sewer systems is prohibited. This prohibition expressly includes,
without limitation, illicit connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection
was permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of connection or
made before the effective date of this chapter.
 Reduction of stormwater pollutants by the use of best management practices.
 Any person responsible for a property or premises, which is or may be the source of an
illicit discharge, may be required to implement, at the person’s expense, the BMPs
necessary to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the municipal separate storm
sewer systems. Compliance with all terms and conditions of a valid Utah Pollutant Discharge Elimination
System permit authorizing the discharge of stormwater associated with industrial
activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed in compliance with this chapter.
 Notification of spills.
 Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible fora
facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a facility or operation,
has information of any known or suspected release of materials which are resulting in,
or likely to result in the illicit discharges or pollutants into the municipal separate storm
sewer systems, the person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery,
containment, and cleanup of the release.
 In the event of a release as described in Subsection 1 of hazardous materials the person
shall immediately notify applicable emergency response agencies of the occurrence.
 In the event of a release as described in Subsection 1of non-hazardous materials, the
person shall notify the County Engineer no later than the next business day.
 If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or industrial
establishment, the owner or operator of such establishment shall also retain an on-site
written record of the discharge, the notices given, and the actions taken to prevent its
recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least three (3) years.


===== 8.19.080 Enforcement Actions And Penalties. =====
Administration and enforcement authority. In accordance with Utah law, the County may enact and enforce this chapter for the
implementation of the Utah Water Quality Act, Utah Code Chapter 19-5, in Utah County.
 The County Engineer is charged with the administration and enforcement of this
chapter.
 The County Engineer shall have the authority to issue notices of violation and stop work
orders and to impose the civil penalties provided in this chapter.
 With the issuance of a land disturbance permit, the County Engineer shall be permitted
to enter and inspect facilities subject to this chapter at all reasonable times and as often
as necessary to determine compliance. Failure to comply with this chapter may result in
punitive actions, by this Code, or by other means identified in law, permits, or terms set
forth in development applications.
 Notification of violation.
 Whenever the County Engineer finds that any permittee or any other person discharging
stormwater has violated or is violating this chapter, a permit, or an order issued
pursuant to this chapter, the County Engineer may serve upon such person written
notice of the violation. Within ten (10) calendar days of this notice, that person shall
submit a written explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction
thereof, including specific required actions, to the County Engineer. Submission of this
plan does not relieve the discharging person of liability for any violations occurring
before or after receipt of the notice of violation.
 The County Engineer is authorized to enter into consent orders, assurances of voluntary
compliance, or other similar means establishing an agreement with the person
responsible for the noncompliance. Such orders will include specific action to be taken
by the person to correct the noncompliance within a time period set out in the order.
Consent orders shall have the same force and effect as administrative orders issued
pursuant to Subsections 4, 5, and 6.
 The County Engineer may order any person who violates this chapter, or any permit or
order issued hereunder, to show cause why a proposed enforcement action should not
be taken. Notice shall be served on the person specifying the time and place for the
meeting, the proposed enforcement action and the reasons for such action, and a
request that the violator show cause why this proposed enforcement action should not
be taken. The notice of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or
certified mail (return receipt requested) at least ten (10) business days prior to the
hearing.
 When the County Engineer finds that any person has violated or continues to violate this
chapter, any permit, or any order issued pursuant to this chapter, then the County
Engineer may issue an order to the violator directing that adequate structures and
devices be installed or procedures implemented and properly operated with that period
specified in the order. Orders may also contain such other requirements as might be
reasonably necessary and appropriate to address the noncompliance, including the
construction of appropriate structures, installation of devices, self-monitoring, and
adequate management practices.
 When the County Engineer finds any person has violated or continues to violate this
chapter, any permit, or any order issued pursuant to this chapter, the County Engineer
may issue an order to cease and desist all such violations and direct those persons in
noncompliance to comply forthwith or take such appropriate remedial or preventive
action as may be needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation,
including civil citation, halting operations, and terminating any discharge.
 In the event any person or any holder of a land disturbance permit pursuant to this
chapter violates the terms of the permit or any provision of this chapter, or implements
site development in such a manner as to materially adversely affect the health, welfare,
or safety of any persons, or be injurious to property or improvements, the County
Engineer may issue a stop work order directing no further work on the development
shall be performed or approved, until otherwise authorized by the County.
 Whenever there is a conflict between any standard contained in this chapter and in the BMPs
Manuals, the strictest standard shall apply.
 In addition to civil penalties, any person who commits any act declared unlawful under this
chapter, who violates any provision of this chapter, who violates the provisions of any permit
issued pursuant to this chapter, or who fails or refuses to comply with any lawful
communication or any notice to abate or take corrective action issued by the County Engineer is
guilty of a class C misdemeanor.


===== 8.19.090 Penalties =====
Under the authority provided by Utah law, the County declares that any person violating any
provision of this chapter may be assessed a penalty by the County Engineer as specified in Utah Code § 19-5-108.3. 
 Imposing fines and damages, or injunctive relief issued by the County Engineer may include
consideration of:
 the harm done to the public health or the environment;
 whether the civil penalty imposed will be a substantial economic deterrent to the illegal
activity;
 the economic benefit gained by the violator;
 the effort put forth by the violator to remedy this violation;
 any unusual or extraordinary enforcement costs incurred by the County;
 the penalty established by law, such as the Utah Water Quality Act, Utah Code Chapter
19-5, and the Utah Solid and Hazardous Waste Act, Utah Code Chapter 19-6, for specific
categories of violations; and
 any equities or aggravating or mitigating considerations.
 In addition to any civil penalty imposed pursuant to Subsection A, the County may recover all
damages proximately caused by the violator to the County, which may include any reasonable
expenses incurred in investigating violations of and enforcing compliance with this chapter, any
other actual damages caused by the violation, and the costs of the County’s construction
maintenance or repair of stormwater facilities when the user or owner of such facilities fails to
maintain them as required by this chapter.
 The County may bring legal action to enjoin the continuing violation of this chapter, and the
existence of any other remedy, at law or equity, shall be no defense to any such actions.
 The remedies set forth in this chapter are cumulative, not exclusive, and are not a defense to
any civil or criminal action that one or more of the remedies herein have been sought or granted.


===== 8.19.100 Appeals =====
Any person aggrieved by the imposition of a civil penalty or damage assessment as provided by
this chapter may appeal the penalty or damage assessment to the County Commission. The appeal shall be in writing and filed with the County Clerk within fifteen (15) business days
after the civil penalty or damage assessment was served.
 Upon receipt of an appeal, the County Commission shall conduct a hearing within thirty (30)
calendar days. Notice of the hearing must be sent by registered mail to the appellant at the address provided by the appellant in their appeal at least five (5) business days before the public hearing. The decision of the County Commission is final.
 An appellant may appeal a decision of the County Commission to the Fourth District Court as provided by state law.


===== 8.20 Property Identification And Addressing =====
8.20.010 Purpose 8.20.020 Definitions 8.20.030 Addressing Authority 8.20.040 Official Street And Address Files 8.20.050 Property Identification Assignment, And Approval 8.20.060 Change Of Address 8.20.070 Enforcement And Violation


===== 8.20.010 Purpose =====
The purpose of this chapter is to establish a uniform property identification and addressing system that will foster uniformity among street names and numbers and create accurate property addresses for providers of public and emergency services. This chapter shall apply to all streets, structures, street identification signs and address numbers, public or private, existing within unincorporated Utah County at the time of adoption of the ordinance as well as those thereafter created or constructed.


===== 8.20.020 Definitions =====
"Address" means a unique alphanumeric descriptor which identifies the property location of a parcel of land, a building or other structure on the countywide grid system. "Addressing Authority" means the authoritative division of county government responsible for addressing services. "Countywide grid system" means the coordinate system which has evolved and developed for identifying address and street locations in the unincorporated areas of the county.


===== 8.20.030 Addressing Authority =====
The Department of Information Systems shall be the Addressing Authority for Utah County. The Addressing Authority shall be responsible for establishing an addressing standards policy for the county. It shall be the duty of the Addressing Authority to approve the naming and numbering of all streets, to designate numbers for houses or buildings fronting upon all streets, to certify addresses in accordance with the addressing standards policy, and to enforce the provisions of this chapter, for the unincorporated areas of the county.


===== 8.20.040 Official Street And Address Files =====
All streets, whether public or private, shall be known by the names by which they are designated in the official street and address files of the Addressing Authority, with such additions, changes and corrections of the names and numbers as shall from time to time be placed in the official files. The official street and address files are separate from the official County Road Map; however, the affidavits of assignment and change as issued by the Addressing Authority shall amend and modify the County Road Map as necessary to provide accurate information for addressing purposes.


===== 8.20.050 Property Identification Assignment, And Approval =====
Property address identification, assignment, and approval must be given by the Addressing Authority prior to final approval of a subdivision or any building permit. The property address identification approval must appear on the final permit, plat of a subdivision, PUD, condominium or other proposed development prior to final approval and upon amendment. The Addressing Authority will record the appropriate documentation to officially assign an address to the location. The Addressing Authority shall notify the United States Postal Service, the Central Utah Emergency Communications Center, the Utah County Public Works Department and other appropriate government and public safety agencies of all address assignments. The developer shall pay for and arrange to manufacture and install all street identification signs as· required by the Director of Public Works or their designee. It is unlawful to erect or maintain any street or address identification sign which has not been approved by the Department of Public Works.


===== 8.20.060 Change Of Address =====
In the interest of public safety, the County or the Addressing Authority may direct the change of an address. Address changes may be made only after providing written notification to the owners of the property whose address is proposed for change by mailing to property owner's address on the most recent assessment roll. A letter will be sent informing the property owner of the proposed address change and requesting that the owner contact the Addressing Authority to discuss the proposed change. The Addressing Authority will provide a reasonable time, not to exceed one month, and make appropriate efforts to contact and discuss the proposed address change with the property owner. A final letter notifying the property owner of the address change will be sent, by registered mail, to the owner's address on the most recent assessment roll including a copy of the instrument to be recorded for the address change. If a property owner desires to change an assigned address, they must file a written request with the Addressing Authority providing the reasons for the change and a proposed new address. If the proposed address meets the addressing standards and policies established by the Addressing Authority and will cause no adverse effects to the addressing system, emergency services dispatch or neighboring properties, the Addressing Authority may change the address. The Addressing Authority will record the appropriate documentation to officially change an address. The Addressing Authority shall notify the United States Postal Service, the Central Utah Emergency Communications Center, and other appropriate government and public safety agencies of all address changes.


===== 8.20.070 Enforcement And Violation =====
It is unlawful for any owner of a parcel of land upon which a structure is located to fail to number such structure or units within the structure with the number designated by the Addressing Authority. It is unlawful for the owner of any structure or substructure or for the owner or agent of any unoccupied habitable structure located upon a street within the county to fail to number such structure or units within the structure with the designated number. It is unlawful for any person to number a structure or units within a structure in any manner other than that prescribed by the Addressing Authority. Any person or entity violating the provisions of this chapter, either by failing to do those acts required herein, or by doing any act prohibited herein, is guilty of a class C misdemeanor punishable in accordance with the provisions of state statute that define the fines, imprisonment or other penalties that apply to a conviction of a class C misdemeanor. 9 PUBLIC SERVICES 9.01 Purpose And Cross Connections Of Water Systems Operated By Utah County 9.02 Sewers 9.03 Open Wells, Cesspools, Privy Vaults 9.04 Solid Waste 9.05 Septic Tank, Cesspool Cleaners 9.06 Agriculture Protection Area


===== 9.01 Purpose And Cross Connections Of Water Systems Operated By Utah County =====
9.01.010 Purpose 9.01.020 Cross Connections 9.01.030 Cross Connection Control Or Elimination 9.01.040 Cross Connection Enforcement 9.01.050 Cross Connection Hazard Assessment Surveys 9.01.060 Termination Of Service


===== 9.01.010 Purpose =====
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the water supply systems operated by the County (Hereinafter “public drinking water system(s)”) from contamination or pollution from any cross connections existing or potential; and to assure that approved backflow prevention assemblies are tested when put into service and at least on an annual basis thereafter. This ordinance is in compliance with Section R309.102.5 of the Utah Public Drinking Water Rules (“UPDWR”)as enacted or hereinafter amended and the Uniform Plumbing Code (“UPC”) as adopted or hereinafter amended by the State of Utah.


===== 9.01.020 Cross Connections =====
The installation or maintenance of any unprotected cross connection which would endanger or permit the contamination or pollution of the water supply of public drinking water systems operated by the County is prohibited. Any such cross connection now existing or hereafter installed is hereby declared unlawful and shall be immediately protected or eliminated.


===== 9.01.030 Cross Connection Control Or Elimination =====
The control or elimination of cross connections and the criteria for determining degree of hazard and prescribing appropriate levels of protection shall comply with the UPC and the UPDWR as presently enacted or hereafter amended.


===== 9.01.040 Cross Connection Enforcement =====
Water service from public drinking water systems to any premises shall be contingent upon the customer providing appropriate cross connection control if required by UCC 9.01.030. Cross connection control determinations and enforcement shall be the responsibility of the County Public Works Department. In addition to criminal penalties, water service may be refused or terminated to any premises where an unprotected cross connection may allow contamination or pollutants to backflow into the public drinking water system.


===== 9.01.050 Cross Connection Hazard Assessment Surveys =====
Authorized employees of the County, with proper identification, shall have free access at reasonable hours of the day to all areas of a premise or building to which drinking water is supplied from a public drinking water system for the purpose of conducting cross connection hazard assessment surveys. In addition to criminal penalties, water service from a public drinking water system may be refused or terminated, or maximum backflow protection may be required, to a premise where access to perform cross connection hazard assessment surveys is denied, where unprotected cross connections are located, or in the event that installed assemblies are not tested and maintained as required by State and local regulations, including but not limited to the UPC and the UPDWR.


===== 9.01.060 Termination Of Service =====
Before any water service from a public drinking water system is terminated, the customer will be notified by personal contact or in writing addressed to the customer’s last known address providing a reasonable time for compliance prior to termination. However, in the event of an actual backflow incident which endangers the public health or contaminates or pollutes a public drinking water system, water service may be terminated immediately and shall not be restored until the cross connection is either eliminated or adequately protected in accordance with this chapter.


===== 9.02 Sewers =====
9.02.010 Definitions 9.02.020 Permit Required 9.02.030 Application For Permit 9.02.040 Plans, Specifications 9.02.050 Compliance With Permit


===== 9.02.010 Definitions =====
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them:

"Disposal system" means a system for disposing of wastes, and includes sewerage system and treatment works.

"Sewerage system" means pipelines or conduits, pumping stations and all other constructions, devices, appurtenances, and facilities used for collecting or conducting wastes to a point of ultimate disposal.

"Treatment works" means any plant, disposal field, lagoon, dam, pumping station, incinerator, or other works used for the purpose of treating, stabilizing, or holding wastes.


===== 9.02.020 Permit Required =====
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or add to a sewerage system or treatment works in this County without securing a permit from the County Building Inspector and the County Health Department.


===== 9.02.030 Application For Permit =====
The application for a permit required by UCC 9.02.020 shall be accompanied by a set of detail plans showing the area to be served, the location of all proposed sewers, the location of proposed treatment works, and the location and source of public and semipublic water supplies.


===== 9.02.040 Plans, Specifications =====
Plans and specifications for work coming under the provisions of this chapter shall be in accordance with the "Standards for Sewage Works" of the State Water Pollution Control Board.


===== 9.02.050 Compliance With Permit =====
The County Health Department shall have the right to refuse to issue said permit unless all rules, regulations and provisions of the law have been complied with; and any person proceeding without such permit shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor.


===== 9.03 Open Wells, Cesspools, Privy Vaults =====
9.03.010 Open Holes Prohibited 9.03.020 Duty To Fill 9.03.030 County May Fill 9.03.040 County To Recover Cost


===== 9.03.010 Open Holes Prohibited =====
It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain, permit or suffer to exist or be maintained any uncovered or open well or open hole or cesspool upon any property situated in the County.


===== 9.03.020 Duty To Fill =====
It shall be the duty of the owner, occupant, or tenant of any property situated in the County upon which any uncovered or open well or open hole or cesspool has been maintained or has existed to remove all contaminants and fill in the same.


===== 9.03.030 County May Fill =====
In the event of the failure or refusal of any owner, occupant, or tenant of any property situated in the County to comply with the provisions of this chapter, the County shall have the right by its officials, agents, servants, or employees to enter upon said land, and remove all contaminants and fill in any such uncovered or open well or open hole or cesspool as herein required.


===== 9.03.040 County To Recover Cost =====
If County must remove contaminants or fill in any uncovered or open well, open hole, or cesspool as provided in this chapter, the owner of the property shall be liable for all costs incurred by County.


===== 9.04 Solid Waste =====
9.04.010 Definitions 9.04.020 Enforcement And Supervision 9.04.030 Complaints 9.04.040 Powers Of Condemnation 9.04.050 Fees For The Use Of County Landfill Areas 9.04.060 Dumping Illegal 9.04.070 Waste Disposal Methods Condemned 9.04.080 Burning Of Waste 9.04.090 Receptacles For Transportation 9.04.100 Spilling On Streets And Property 9.04.110 Delay On Streets 9.04.120 Receptacles Required 9.04.130 Acceptable Refuse Receptacles 9.04.140 Misuse Of Receptacles 9.04.150 Littering 9.04.160 Private Storage Of Garbage And Refuse 9.04.170 Uncovered Garbage 9.04.180 Wind-Blown Refuse 9.04.190 Accumulation Of Refuse On Premises 9.04.200 Removal Of Refuse 9.04.210 Dead Animals - Prompt Removal Required 9.04.220 Dead Animals - Deposit In Water Illegal


===== 9.04.010 Definitions =====
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them:

"Cinders" means the residue of materials burned in boilers, furnaces and heating plants of public buildings, places of business, apartment houses, hotels, and manufacturing plants.

"Community waste" means lawn cuttings, clippings from bushes and shrubs, leaves, sweepings from yards, tin cans, boiler ashes, newspapers, magazines, cardboard cartons and stove ashes, but not building materials.

"Garbage" means swill and all animal, vegetable, and food refuse from kitchens of residences, hotels, cafes restaurants and places where food is prepared for human consumption.

"Market waste" means condemned or decayed or unsound vegetables, meat, fish and fruit, and all waste and offal thereof from markets, stores and factories, and all vegetable waste from such markets, stores, and factories.

"Night soil" means the contents from privy vaults, cesspools, septic tanks, grease tanks, and water closets.

"Place of business" means any place in the county in which there is conducted or carried on principally or exclusively any pursuit or occupation by any person or persons for the purpose of gaining a livelihood.

"Public buildings and places" means indoor or outdoor areas, whether privately or publicly owned, to which persons not employed at the place have general and regular access by right or by invitation, express or implied, whether by payment of money or not, including office buildings, theaters, garages, auto camps, hotels, clubs, churches, schools, hospitals, or other places of similar character.

"Refuse" means combustible trash, including, but not limited to, paper, cartons, boxes,
 
barrels, wood, excelsior, tree branches, yard trimmings, wood furniture, bedding; noncombustible trash, including but not limited to, metal, tin cans, metal furniture, dirt, small quantities of rock and pieces of concrete, glass, crockery, other mineral wastes; street rubbish, including, but not limited to, street sweepings, dirt, leaves, catch basin dirt, contents of litter receptacles. Refuse shall not, however, include earth and wastes from building operations, nor shall it include solid wastes resulting from building operations, nor shall it include solid wastes resulting from industrial processes and manufacturing operations, such as food-processing wastes, boiler house cinders, lumber, scraps, and shavings.

"Residences" means buildings or dwellings comprising not more than three (3) dwelling units designed for separate housekeeping tenements and where no business of any kind is conducted except such home occupations as are defined in the Zoning Ordinances of the County. Condominiums shall be deemed residences for the purposes of this chapter.

"Scavenger" means any person who engages in the business of collecting, carrying, transporting, or hauling garbage, market waste, trade waste, dead animals, night soil, or other refuse.

"Solid waste" means any garbage, refuse, sludge (including sludge from the waste treatment plant, water supply treatment plant, or air pollution control facility) or other discarded material, including solid, liquid, semisolid or contained gaseous material resulting from industrial, commercial, mining, or agricultural operations and from community activities, but does not include solid or dissolved materials in domestic sewage or in irrigation return flows or discharges.

"Stove ashes" means the residue of material burned in stoves and furnaces in private residences, but not the residue from furnaces in apartment houses, hotels, business houses, heating, or manufacturing plants.

"Trade waste" means all discarded wooden boxes, barrels, broken lumber, cardboard boxes, cartons, waste papers, leather, rubber, packing materials, cuttings, sweepings, rags and other flammable waste materials and all discarded trade or manufacturing refuse form stores, factories or other places of business which are not included within the definition of garbage, stove ashes, and market waste.


===== 9.04.020 Enforcement And Supervision =====
All scavenger works shall be subject to the direction and control of the County Health Department, and the County Health Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter in reference to garbage and the collection thereof. The County Health Department shall have authority to issue and require permits and establish appropriate fees to direct and control the provisions of this chapter.


===== 9.04.030 Complaints =====
It shall be the duty of the County Health Department, or other appointed official, to answer and investigate all complaints and, when necessary in its judgment, to declare the unsanitary condition a public nuisance.


===== 9.04.040 Powers Of Condemnation =====
It shall be the duty of the County Health Department, or other appointed official, to declare worn-out, rusted, or filthy containers, as described in this chapter, public nuisances; and it shall be unlawful for any person, group of persons or commercial establishment to continue to use said containers. It shall be the duty of such person, persons or commercial establishment to clean or replace said containers with adequate containers as described in this chapter.


===== 9.04.050 Fees For The Use Of County Landfill Areas =====
Fees and charges associated with the use of County owned or County operated landfills shall be adopted by the County Commission, and the amount thereof shall be set at the discretion of the County Commissioners.


===== 9.04.060 Dumping Illegal =====
It shall be unlawful for any person to sweep or deposit garbage, paper, or other rubbish into any gutter or ditch within the county limits, or to empty any swill, house slops, or other filthy refuse in any gutter or ditch within the county limits. It shall be unlawful to deposit or dispose of used petroleum products or other chemical waste in any gutter, ditch, or body of water in the county. It shall also be unlawful for any person to dump any refuse, garbage, paper, trash, junk, market waste, trade waste, night soil, used petroleum products or other hazardous chemical waste on any premises in the county, except in an area designated and approved by the County Health Department.


===== 9.04.070 Waste Disposal Methods Condemned =====
It shall be unlawful to drain, empty, or discharge any of the contents of any cesspool, septic tank, house sink, or any other receptacle receiving human wastes into any open ditch, open or closed drain, open or closed irrigation stream, or into any other body of water, or onto the surface of the ground. Whenever in the opinion of the health officer any privy, privy vault, cesspool, or septic tank has become a menace to health, the Health Department shall have the power to order such privy, septic tank, or cesspool disinfected or filled in and abandoned.


===== 9.04.080 Burning Of Waste =====
It shall be unlawful to burn any garbage, market waste or other organic or offensive refuse in the open air or in any furnace or stove within the county. It shall be unlawful to burn papers, excelsior, trade waste, or any other material which may be blown about by the wind anywhere in the county unless the same is burned in a stove, fireplace, furnace, or in an incinerator approved by the Utah Air Quality Board.


===== 9.04.090 Receptacles For Transportation =====
It shall be unlawful for any person to haul, convey, or transport through or upon any of the public streets any garbage, ashes, market wastes, trade wastes, night soil, loose papers, scrap lumber, excelsior, tree limbs, bush clippings, lawn clippings, house refuse, yard refuse, liquid wastes, or any other refuse materials in open trucks, open trailers, or other open conveyances, unless covered completely with a heavy-duty canvas or other heavy acceptable material at all times when the vehicle is being used for the collection of, or carrying, transporting, or hauling of garbage, market waste, night soil, dead animals, or other refuse, and is to be driven for a distance of five (5) blocks or more without making a stop for collection.


===== 9.04.100 Spilling On Streets And Property =====
It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in the collection and transportation of garbage, trade waste, rubbish, or other matter of any kind, to permit, allow, or cause any of said matter to fall or remain on any property, place, building, premises, street, road or highway. It shall be the duty of any person engaged in the transportation of garbage, market waste, trade waste, rubbish or matter of any kind to see and ensure that all such matter is procured and disposed of by that person, or that person’s agents or employees, in a manner which shall not be offensive or filthy in relation to any person, place, building, premises, street, road, or highway.


===== 9.04.110 Delay On Streets =====
It shall be unlawful for any person to suffer, permit or allow any vehicle loaded with garbage, slop, swill, market waste, or other refuse to be or remain standing upon any public street within the county, any longer than may be necessary for the purpose of loading and transporting the same.


===== 9.04.120 Receptacles Required =====
It shall be the duty of every owner, lessee, or occupant of any building, premises, or place of business to provide:
 suitable and sufficient metallic, plastic, or other approved receptacles with tight- fitting lids for receiving and holding garbage, market waste, and other wet refuse that may accumulate from said building, place of business, or upon said premises or the portion thereof under the control of such person; and suitable and sufficient receptacles for receiving and holding trade waste and other dry refuse that may accumulate from said building, place of business, or upon said premises or the portion thereof under the control of such person.


===== 9.04.130 Acceptable Refuse Receptacles =====
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit garbage or other wet refuse in wooden boxes, barrels, or pasteboard cartons. Trade waste and dry refuse may be deposited in wooden boxes, pasteboard cartons, barrels, or similar receptacles; provided, such receptacles shall be of adequate construction to prevent garbage from being scattered from faulty bottoms, etc. Such receptacles must have wide necks and mouths to prevent clogging and littering. All pasteboard boxes shall be disposed of with their contents. Garbage and refuse of every kind may, however, be disposed of in properly and sufficiently treated weather-resistant bags manufactured specifically for use in garbage and refuse collection and having a twenty (20) to thirty (30) gallon capacity for receiving and holding garbage, market waste, and other refuse.


===== 9.04.140 Misuse Of Receptacles =====
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or negligently break, deface, or injure any receptacle used to contain garbage or other refuse, or to do or permit to be done in connection with such receptacles anything which shall be damaging to the property of another.


===== 9.04.150 Littering =====
It shall be unlawful for any person to litter or cause to be littered any property, place, building, premises, street, road or highway with the contents of garbage or refuse receptacles.


===== 9.04.160 Private Storage Of Garbage And Refuse =====
It shall be unlawful for any person or commercial establishment to place receptacles for the storage of garbage, market waste, trade waste or other refuse in such a locality or position that they shall be filthy, unsightly, or offensive to any person inhabiting premises contiguous to such storage facility. Such conditions shall be deemed to constitute a public nuisance.


===== 9.04.170 Uncovered Garbage =====
It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to remain anywhere in the county any garbage or other material subject to decay other than leaves or grass, excepting in a tightly covered metal, plastic, or other approved container.


===== 9.04.180 Wind-Blown Refuse =====
It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or permit to accumulate in the county except in a covered container any dust, ashes, or trash of such material that it can be blown by the wind.


===== 9.04.190 Accumulation Of Refuse On Premises =====
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit night soil, other refuse, or dead animals to remain in or on any premises within the county.


===== 9.04.200 Removal Of Refuse =====
It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to remove all garbage, manure, night soil, ashes, dead animals, and other refuse and offal to a place designated by the health council within a reasonable time after notice is given by the Health Department to do so.


===== 9.04.210 Dead Animals - Prompt Removal Required =====
It shall be the duty of every owner of any animal found dead within the county to immediately remove the same. It shall be unlawful for any owner of any animal found dead to permit the dead animal to be or remain upon any public street or any premises within the county.


===== 9.04.220 Dead Animals - Deposit In Water Illegal =====
It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or deposit any dead animal or fowl, or any live animal or fowl for the purpose of drowning, in any reservoir, pool, canal, creek, or other stream or body of water within the county.


===== 9.05 Septic Tank, Cesspool Cleaners =====
9.05.010 Business License 9.05.020 Permit Required 9.05.030 Rules, Regulations


===== 9.05.010 Business License =====
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of emptying or cleaning any vault, privy, septic tank, cesspool, or grease trap in this county unless that person has a license to do so.


===== 9.05.020 Permit Required =====
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of emptying or cleaning any vault, privy, septic tank, cesspool, or grease trap in the county unless that person possesses a valid permit from the County Health Department.


===== 9.05.030 Rules, Regulations =====
The County Health Department shall make such rules and regulations as are necessary to insure the proper transportation and disposal of the contents of the above receptacles.


===== 9.06 Agriculture Protection Area =====
9.06.010 Definitions 9.06.020 Review Of Agriculture Protection Areas 9.06.030 Notice, Review, Public Hearing, Evaluation, Area Adding, And Area Removing Requirements 9.06.040 Designation 9.06.050 Duties 9.06.060 Proposal For Creation Of Agriculture Protection Area 9.06.070 Area Requirements


===== 9.06.010 Definitions =====
For the purposes of this chapter, the words and phrases shall have the meanings ascribed to them in Utah Code Chapter 17-81, with the addition of:
 “contiguous” means touching along a common side or so close in proximity as to be separated only by the width of a road, canal, railroad track, easement, or similar right-of-way; and "calendar year" means the period from January 1 to December 31 inclusive.


===== 9.06.020 Review Of Agriculture Protection Areas =====
The County adopts the review of agriculture protection requirements of Utah Code Chapter 17-81.


===== 9.06.030 Notice, Review, Public Hearing, Evaluation, Area Adding, And Area Removing Requirements =====
The County adopts the noticing, review of proposal, public hearing, evaluation criteria, and procedures for adding or removing area in agriculture protection requirements of Utah Code Title 17 Chapter 41.


===== 9.06.040 Designation =====
There is hereby created an Agriculture Protection Area Advisory Board consisting of five (5) members appointed by the County Commission from the County's soil conservation district boards of supervisors. Board members shall serve without salary but may be reimbursed for mileage or other actual expenses incurred. Board member terms. Board members shall be appointed to terms of five (5) years until their successors are appointed. For the first Advisory Board, the terms of the regular members shall be staggered so that the term of one member shall expire each year on December 31st. Appointments to fill vacancies shall be for the unexpired term of the vacant office.


===== 9.06.050 Duties =====
The Agriculture Protection Area Advisory Board shall have the duties outlined in Utah Code Chapter 17-81.


===== 9.06.060 Proposal For Creation Of Agriculture Protection Area =====
A proposal to create an agriculture protection area or an amendment to an existing agriculture protection area within the unincorporated part of the County may be filed with the County Commission by completing the standard forms adopted by the County Commission and by filing said forms in the office of the County Commission. To be accepted for processing by the County Commission, a proposal under Subsection A shall be signed by a majority of the land area in agricultural production within the proposed agriculture protection area. For the purpose of Subsection A1, the owners of real property shall be determined by the records of the County Recorder. The County Clerk, or other person designated by the County Commission to receive and process proposals, shall accept and process such forms only if they are properly completed. A complete application consists of: a completed application for Agricultural Protection meeting all applicable requirements of Utah Code Chapter 17-81; the filing fee as set forth in the most recently adopted Utah County Government Fee Schedule. In addition, the applicant shall reimburse the County for all required costs of property notice mailings incurred by the County; and an electronic submittal of a complete address mailing list of property owners and applicants within one thousand (1000) feet of the proposed area.


===== 9.06.070 Area Requirements =====
In accordance with Utah Code § 17-81-201, the minimum number of continuous acres that must be included in an agriculture protection area within the unincorporated part of the County is hereby established as twenty (20) acres. A variance to the minimum acreage requirement may be given: for land which is used in intensive livestock operations or in fruit production; or if the acreage is contiguous to an existing agriculture protection area or contiguous to an existing or proposed agriculture protection area that is not within the unincorporated part of the County. Creation of an agriculture protection area shall not impair the ability of land within the area to obtain the benefits of Utah Code Chapter 59-2 Part 5, Farmland Assessment Act. The eligibility of land for the benefits of Utah Code Chapter 59-2 Part 5, Farmland Assessment Act, shall be determined exclusively by the provisions of that act, notwithstanding the land's location within an agriculture protection area. 10 RECREATION 10.01 Skiing Areas 10.02 Boating 10.03 Boat Rental License 10.04 Boating Equipment 10.05 Boating Operation Regulations


===== 10.01 Skiing Areas =====
10.01.010 Sheriff To Enforce 10.01.020 Unsafe Areas - Authorization To Restrict Entrance 10.01.030 Entrance Prohibited 10.01.040 Unsafe Acts - Reckless Skiing Prohibited 10.01.050 Skier Duty In Event Of Collision 10.01.060 Violation - Penalty


===== 10.01.010 Sheriff To Enforce =====
For the purpose of promoting greater safety to persons using ski areas in the County, the Sheriff is hereby authorized and directed to carry out or cause to be carried out the provisions of this chapter.


===== 10.01.020 Unsafe Areas - Authorization To Restrict Entrance =====
The Sheriff, Forest Service, National Park Service, Utah Department of Transportation or ski patrol for the ski resort upon which the designated area is located shall be authorized to designate closed or unsafe areas through the use of regulatory signs or other devices.


===== 10.01.030 Entrance Prohibited =====
It shall be unlawful for any person, for the purpose of skiing or other reason, to knowingly and willfully enter upon any area designated by the Sheriff, Forest Service, National Park Service, Department of Transportation, or ski patrol as closed or unsafe.


===== 10.01.040 Unsafe Acts - Reckless Skiing Prohibited =====
No person shall ski in a reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger the life, limb, or property of any person. The primary duty shall be on the person skiing downhill to avoid collision with any lower person or object.


===== 10.01.050 Skier Duty In Event Of Collision =====
Every skier involved in a collision with another skier must stop and render any reasonably necessary assistance. Such assistance may include warding off other skiers while waiting for aid or contacting resort personnel or ski patrol to inform them that aid is necessary. Any skier involved in a collision must, upon request, present identification or supply the skier's name and address to resort personnel, ski patrollers, or the injured skier.


===== 10.01.060 Violation - Penalty =====
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor.


===== 10.02 Boating =====
10.02.010 Definitions 10.02.020 Application And Jurisdiction 10.02.030 Enforcement 10.02.040 Violation And Penalty 10.02.050 Flotation Device Required On Provo River 10.02.060 Trespass Upon Boats


===== 10.02.010 Definitions =====
For the purposes of this chapter, the word "boat" shall mean any vessel (such as rafts, canoes, skiffs, dinghies, rowboats, sailing vessels, or motorboats) and shall include any vessel propelled in whole or part by machinery, including vessels temporarily equipped with detachable motors.


===== 10.02.020 Application And Jurisdiction =====
The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to all boats navigating the waters within the jurisdiction of this County, except where inconsistent with any laws or regulations of any higher governing authority, in which case such laws or regulations shall prevail.


===== 10.02.030 Enforcement =====
The Sheriff is hereby charged with the enforcement of all of the provisions of this chapter.


===== 10.02.040 Violation And Penalty =====
Any person who shall violate any of the terms, clauses or conditions of this chapter shall be guilty of an infraction, unless a different penalty shall be provided for such violation by this chapter.


===== 10.02.050 Flotation Device Required On Provo River =====
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in swimming activity or use inner tubes, air mattresses or other floating devices, or to allow a minor in the person's charge to engage in such activity on any portion of the Provo River that lies within the unincorporated areas of this County, unless the person is wearing a life vest or other jacket flotation device. The flotation device must be Coast Guard approved and in good and serviceable condition and of proper and adequate size to provide positive buoyancy and maintain the person using the device in an upright position.


===== 10.02.060 Trespass Upon Boats =====
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons not the owner of and without the permission of the owner of any boat to enter upon or into, to take hold of, or in any way tamper with or trespass upon, any boat or mooring line of any boat which is anchored or moored at any boat slip or pier, or anchored upon any lake or stream in the County.


===== 10.03 Boat Rental License =====
10.03.010 Required 10.03.020 Inspection 10.03.030 Inspection Markings


===== 10.03.010 Required =====
Application for a license to rent or offer to rent or lease a boat or other aquatic transportation device shall be made according to the provisions of UCC 4. No boat shall thereafter be rented or offered for rent until such license has been granted and the boat marked as hereinafter provided.


===== 10.03.020 Inspection =====
The inspectors appointed by the County Commission are hereby empowered and shall have the duty of prescribing methods of inspection to determine the weight capacity for each boat and to make sure that such boat is of a suitable structure for the service in which it is to be employed and is in a condition to warrant the belief that it may be used in navigation with safety to life. It shall be the duty of the inspectors to cause such boats to be inspected upon each application for license, and to see that all boats comply with the standards prescribed. Whenever, upon such inspection, it shall be found that any boat so inspected does not comply with such standards, it shall thereupon be the duty of the inspectors to notify the owner, proprietor or agent in charge of any such boat to comply with such standards and with the provisions of this section prior to further use of such boat.


===== 10.03.030 Inspection Markings =====
In addition to the license provided for by the provisions of this chapter, there shall be painted conspicuously on the after quarter of each boat, the number of pounds of weight authorized to be carried therein. No owner, agent or lessor, shall knowingly permit more than that number of pounds of weight to occupy the boat at any time.


===== 10.04 Boating Equipment =====
10.04.010 Life Preservers 10.04.020 Fire Extinguishers 10.04.030 Anchors, Oars And Paddles, Water Pumps, Bailing Cans 10.04.040 Fuels 10.04.050 Lights 10.04.060 Muffling Devices 10.04.070 Ventilators


===== 10.04.010 Life Preservers =====
All boats shall be provided with one U.S. Coast Guard approved life jacket, ring buoy or buoyant cushion for each person on board.


===== 10.04.020 Fire Extinguishers =====
All motorboats shall be equipped with at least one hand portable, U.S. Coast Guard approved fire extinguisher.


===== 10.04.030 Anchors, Oars And Paddles, Water Pumps, Bailing Cans =====
Anchors with an adequate scope of anchor line several times the depth of the water, oars and paddles, and water pumps or bailing cans shall be standard equipment for all boats.


===== 10.04.040 Fuels =====
All liquid fuel shall be carried only in approved safety cans; and equipment to transfer said liquid fuel to the fuel tank, cook stove, heating or lighting device, shall be provided to prevent spillage or leakage. In no instance shall fuel be carried in glass containers.


===== 10.04.050 Lights =====
Each boat, when under way between sunset and sunrise, shall display such lights as are required by state law.


===== 10.04.060 Muffling Devices =====
It shall be unlawful to use a boat propelled in whole or in part by gas, gasoline or naphtha, unless the same is provided with a stock factory muffler, underwater exhaust or other modern devices capable of adequately muffling the sound of the exhaust of the engine. The phrase "adequately muffling" shall mean that the motor's exhaust at all times be so muffled or suppressed as not to create excessive or unusual noise. The discharge of cooling water through exhaust of an inboard engine shall be considered an adequate muffling device. Nothing in the provisions of this section shall be construed to mean that the operator of a motorboat actually competing in a race or regatta which is sanctioned by an appropriate government shall not be allowed to do so.


===== 10.04.070 Ventilators =====
All cabin or semi-cabin boats shall be equipped with ventilators which can be used without exposing extra openings in the hull, which would admit spray or splash during rough weather.


===== 10.05 Boating Operation Regulations =====
10.05.010 Exception 10.05.020 Operation Generally 10.05.030 Reckless Operation 10.05.040 Speed In Harbors 10.05.050 Meeting 10.05.060 Crossing 10.05.070 Overtaking 10.05.080 Obstruction Of Passageways 10.05.090 Operation In Swimming Areas 10.05.100 Overloading 10.05.110 Mooring To Beacons 10.05.120 Intoxication 10.05.130 Accidents 10.05.140 Interference By Swimmers


===== 10.05.010 Exception =====
Nothing in the provisions of this chapter should be construed to mean that the operator of a motorboat actually competing in a race or regatta which is sanctioned by an appropriate government shall not attempt to attain high speeds on a marked racing course.


===== 10.05.020 Operation Generally =====
Every operator of a motorboat shall at all times navigate the same in a careful and prudent manner and at such rate of speed as not to endanger the life, limb or property of another person.


===== 10.05.030 Reckless Operation =====
Reckless navigation of a motorboat shall include operating the same in a manner which unnecessarily interferes with the free and proper use of the navigable waters of the state or unnecessarily endangers other boats therein, or the life and limb of any person.


===== 10.05.040 Speed In Harbors =====
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a boat within any harbor at a rate of speed which would cause a wake from the boat he is operating. In addition to any penalty which may be imposed for the violation of this section, any person causing a wake shall be personally liable for any damage resulting from such wake.


===== 10.05.050 Meeting =====
When two (2) boats are approaching each other "head on" or nearly so (so as to involve risk of collision), it shall be the duty of each boat to bear to the right and pass the other boat on its left side.


===== 10.05.060 Crossing =====
When boats approach each other obliquely or at right angles, the boat approaching on the right side has the right-of-way.


===== 10.05.070 Overtaking =====
One boat may overtake another on either side but must grant right-of-way to the overtaken boat.


===== 10.05.080 Obstruction Of Passageways =====
No person shall so anchor a boat for fishing or other purposes on any body of water over which the County has jurisdiction in such a position as to obstruct a passageway ordinarily used by other boats.


===== 10.05.090 Operation In Swimming Areas =====
No person shall operate a boat within a water area which is clearly marked by buoys or some other distinguishing device as a swimming area.


===== 10.05.100 Overloading =====
No boat shall be loaded with passengers or cargo beyond its safe carrying capacity taking into consideration weather and other normal operating conditions.


===== 10.05.110 Mooring To Beacons =====
Any person mooring any boat to any of the buoys or beacons placed in any waterway by the authority of the state or by the authority of the County Commission, or in any manner hanging on with a boat to such buoy or beacon shall be guilty of an infraction.


===== 10.05.120 Intoxication =====
It shall be unlawful for any person who is under the influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotic drugs or barbiturate or any person who is an habitual user of same to operate, propel or be in actual physical control of any boat. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any boat or any person having such in charge or in control to authorize or knowingly permit the same to be propelled or operated by any person who is under the influence of intoxicating liquor, narcotic drugs or barbital.


===== 10.05.130 Accidents =====
The operator of any boat involved in an accident resulting in injury or death to any person or in damage to property shall immediately stop such boat at the scene of such accident and shall give his name, address, full identification of his boat and the name and address of the owner, to the person struck or the operator or occupants of the boat collided with, and shall render to any person injured in such an accident reasonable assistance and shall report such accident to the nearest or most convenient law enforcement agency or office.


===== 10.05.140 Interference By Swimmers =====
No swimmer or other person shall take hold of or in any manner interfere with any boat or watercraft or the operation of the same while any such boat is under way. LINK TO LAND USE ORDINANCE Click to view the Utah County Land Use Ordinance . FEE SCHEDULE ANIMAL CONTROL ASSESSOR ATTORNEY BUILDING PERMITS CLERK AUDITOR COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT CONSTABLE ELECTIONS FIRE MARSHAL PERMIT GENERAL FEES FOR ALL DEPARTMENTS HEALTH DEPARTMENT JUSTICE COURT PUBLIC WORKS RECORDER RECOVERY ZONE FACILITY BONDS SECURITY CENTER SHERIFF'S OFFICE SURVEYOR TREASURER The following is to establish a uniform fee schedule and appropriate charges for service and to have those approved by the County Commission for use by the County departments of County. The following fees are mandated by State Code and are found in Section 17-5-214.
 As used in this section, "County Officer" means all of the county officers enumerated in Utah Code § 17-16-2 except county recorders, county constables, and county sheriffs.
 The county legislative body shall adopt an ordinance establishing the fees for services provided by each county officer. Each County officer shall collect, in advance for exclusive County use and benefit:
 all fees established by the county legislative body under this section; and
 any other fees authorized or required by law. COMMISSION APPROVAL: 12/21/1999 EFFECTIVE DATE: JANUARY 1, 2000 LAST UPDATE: March 13, 2019


===== ANIMAL CONTROL =====
Transportation/Impound Fees for Livestock $72.00 per day Boarding Fees for Livestock $12.50 per day


===== ASSESSOR =====
Return charge $20.00 Copies of Tax Notice $0.25 per notice Certification $2.00 per document


===== ATTORNEY =====
The Utah County Attorney's Office shall collect fees in the following amounts and the individual or entity requesting discovery must remit the appropriate fee prior to the Attorney's Office sending or providing discovery. Discovery Fees Data or media storage device (e.g. video tape, audio tape, DVD disc, DC disc, etc.) $15.00 Black and white photocopies (per page) $0.25 Color photocopies (per page) $0.50 Facsimile transmission (first page) $2.00 Each additional page $1.00 Mailing $2.00 per mailing
or actual cost plus $1.50, whichever is greater
 The Utah County Attorney's Office shall not collect fees for providing discovery in criminal and juvenile cases when the charged defendant or juvenile does not have counsel, the discovery consists only of documents, the number of photocopied pages is less than ten, and the defendant or juvenile picks up the discovery at the Attorney's office.

The Utah County Attorney Office shall not collect fees for providing discovery when discovery is made available via email or internet accessible database.


===== BUILDING PERMITS =====
Exhibit A Permit Fee by Building Type & Size
(Includes Plan Review Fee and State of Utah Surcharge) (Does not include bonds if applicable) 
 Effective 4/3/2012 Occupancy Type Description Per Sq. Ft. Multiplier A-1 Through A-5 B
E
F-1 and F-2
H-1 Through H-5 I-1 Through I-4 M
R-1 Through R-2 R-3 Through R-4 S-1 and S-2
U
Manufactured Home (No Bsmnt or Garage) All Occupancies
All Occupancies All Occupancies All Occupancies All Occupancies All Occupancies
All Occupancies
 Assembly Business Educational Factory Hazardous Institutional Mercantile
Hotels & Multi-Family Residential
Storage Utility/Miscellaneous Factory Built Portion Only
Shell Only Buildings (prior to tenant build-out) Unfinished Basements
Remodeling
Swimming Pools and Water Tanks Change in Use or Occupancy Finishing of Unfinished Basement
Porches, Decks, & Other Unwalled Structures
 $1.50
$1.50
$1.50
$0.50
$1.50
$1.50
$1.00
$1.50
$1.00
$0.50
$0.50
$0.30
$0.30
$0.30
$0.30
$0.30
$0.30
Difference Between Multipliers
$0.30
 (Above permit fees may be reduced if the Building Official determines that the fee substancially exceeds the cost of providing the required service) Permit Fee by Activity & Flat Fee Activity, Use, or Structure Flat Rate Minimum permit fee Demolition of a structure
Fences over 6 feet above grade and unpowered gates Retaining walls over 4 foot
Replacement of AC Units, Furnaces, Water Heaters, Boilers, or Similar Equipment LPG conversion to natural gas
Residential electrical service upgrades/replacement Temporary power pedestals
Inspections per visit during normal business hours (when additional inspection are required) Re-Inspection fee (Normal Business Hours)
Grading up to 10,000 cubic yards
 $101.00
$101.00
$101.00
$101.00
$101.00
$101.00
$101.00
$101.00
$101.00
$101.00
$101.00 
 Activity, Use, or Structure Flat Rate Commercial/Utility Equipment & New Commercial Electrical Services Bridges, Powered Gates
Scales & Scale Houses
Billboards & Signs (Not Including Power Connection) Commercial Electrical Service Upgrades
Renewal of Building Permit
Adding Plumbing to a Building Without Plumbing Facilities
Adding Mechanical to a Building Without Mechanical Equipment or Service Solar & Generator Power Installations (Not Including Accessory Structures) Residential Wind and/or Radio Towers
Grading, 10,001 Cubic Yards or More and Retaining Walls
Inspections Per Visit (After Business Hours)
 $303.00
$303.00
$303.00
$303.00
$303.00
$303.00
$303.00
$303.00
$303.00
$303.00
$303.00
$303.00 
 Activity, Use, or Structure Flat Rate Adding Electrical to a Building Without Power
Commercial Wind Towers (Not Including Accessory Structures) Cell Towers (Not Including Accessory Structures)
Commercial Radio Towers (Not Including Accessory Structures)
Power, Gas, Water, Phone, & Other Utility Facilities(Not Including Accessory Buildings)
 $505.00
$505.00
$505.00
$505.00
$505.00
 Building Permit Submittal Fees New Buildings $300.00 Violations Base Rate Accrued Rate Unauthorized Removal of Posted Violation
Illegal Occupancy or Use of a Structure Commencement of Work While in Violation
 $200.00
$200.00 or Forfeiture of Construction Bond
$200.00
 $ 50.00 Per Day after Posting of Violation
$ 50.00 Per Day after Posting of Violation
 Other Fees Rate Compliance deposit for habitable/usable buildings
(refundable if no illegal use/occupancy occurs prior to receiving a Certificate of Occupancy)
Investigation Fee and/or Red Tag Fee for Illegal buildings, structures, or activities without a permit
 $500.00 or 30% of Total Permit Fee
(whichever is greater)
$300.00
 (Fee reduced to $75.00 if applications for required permits are filed within two (2) business days from the date of posting) Distance Surcharge Zones Zone rate per required inspection Local projects located within 10 miles of building department office Projects located 10.1-20 miles from building department office Projects located 20.1-30 miles from building department office Projects located 30.1-40 miles from building department office
Projects located over 40 miles from building department office
 1
2
3
4
5
 $10.00
$35.00
$60.00
$85.00
$110.00
 Buildings, structures, or activities not listed above, will be assessed in the most closely related category)


===== CLERK =====
Passport Fees Passport Execution (Acceptance) Fee This fee is set by the US Department of State, not Utah County, and is subject to change. Full passport fee schedule available at https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/passports/how-apply/fees.html . $35.00 Passport Photo $10.00 Marriage License Fees Utah County License (includes 1 digital and 1 certified copy) $40.00 Children's Defense Trust Fund (State required) $10.00 Utah Marriage Commission (State required for online applicants only. Waived if a qualified Pre-Marital Counseling or Education course is completed by applicants prior to applying for license online. Does not apply to walk-in applicants.) $20.00 Victims of Domestic Violence (Optional State Fee) $10.00 Minimum Marriage License Fee $50.00 Marriage Document and Shipping Fees Certified Copies of Marriage License/ Certificate of Marriage $10.00 Paper Apostille Requests (includes certified copy) $30.00 Digital Apostille Request $75.00 Apostille Request Processing Only charged once per order; waives international shipping processing fee. $15.00 Error Corrections (includes certified copy) $10.00 International Shipping Processing Fee $15.00 International Shipping Costs Required service for all shipping addresses outside of the United States Varies by destination country* Expedited United States Shipping Costs Optional services for faster shipping and tracking Varies by service and destination* Routine United States Shipping Costs No extra cost *Current shipping costs available at:http://utahcounty.gov/dept/clerk/marriage/ShippingRates.html Other Marriage and Clerk Fees Marriage Ceremony Includes officiant, use of ceremony room, videoconference link, and video recording. $35.00 Marriage Officiator Designee Application $25.00 Designee listing on Marriage License Website for one year $25.00 Utah Single Status Notice $10.00 Maryland Non-Resident Affidavit $10.00 Notary Service Verification $10.00 Credit/Debit Card Payment Transaction Fee (Visa, MasterCard, Discover) 2.5%, minimum $1.50 Annexation Petition Application (non-refundable) $25.00 Base Charge $100.00 plus $2.00 per property owner ($25.00 application credit) Additional Research $50.00 an hour after the first two hours Utah County Elections 18" x 24" Map $10.00 24" x 36" Map $20.00 36" x 48" Map $30.00 48" x 60" Map $50.00 Candidate Filing Fee: Utah Code § 20A-9-201
(8)(a) Except for a candidate for president or vice president of the United States, the fee for a declaration of candidacy is:
(i) $50 for candidates for the local school district board; and
(ii) $50 plus 1/8 of 1% of the total salary for the full term of office legally paid to the person holding the office for all other federal, state, and county offices. Election Information Requests State Senate (single county) $100.00 State Senate (multi-county) $25.00 State House (single county) $50.00 State House (multi-county) $25.00 State School (single county) $100.00 State School (multi-county) $50.00 2 nd Class County $150.00 1 st Class City $100.00 2 nd Class City $75.00 3 rd Class City and below $50.00 Town $15.00 Local School District Board $25.00 Single Precinct $15.00 Subscription Reports $15.00 Special Research $35.00 per hour District Petition Infrastructure Financing District Petition $600.00 Public Infrastructure District Petition $600.00 Special Service District Petition $600.00 Special District Petition $600.00


===== AUDITOR =====
May Tax Sale Administration Fee on Advertised Property $165.00


===== COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT =====
Building Permit Fees Building Permits See Exhibit A Business License Fees New Renewal Solicitor License $5.00 Business Category Commercial $295.00 $120.00 Commercial - no occupancy (billboards, storage units, outside storage, etc) $250.00 $110.00 Commercial - Wrecking Yards $410.00 $205.00 Commercial - Recreational Resort (*plus $00.001 per sq. ft.) $400.00* $175.00* Home, Kennel, Horse Boarding with no visiting clientele $100.00 $50.00 Additional licenses at same location $50.00 $25.00 Home w/clientele and/or activity that require additional inspections $125.00 $75.00 Additional licenses at same location $60.00 $30.00 Manufacturing, Factory, Industrial, Processing, Packaging (*plus $00.001 per sq. ft.) $280.00* $130.00* Mining/Landfill (Bonded with Utah County) $750.00 $385.00 Mining/Landfill w/Crusher, Batch, Mix, Milling, Refining (Bonded with Utah County) $905.00 $540.00 Mining/Landfill (Bonded with DOGM) $640.00 $385.00 Mining/Landfill w/Crusher, Batch, Mix, Milling, Refining (Bonded with DOGM) $795.00 $540.00 Solicitor $15.00 Amended badge and certificate $5.00 Sexually Oriented Business $500.00 $500.00 Sexually Oriented Business Employee License $100.00 $50.00 Alcohol License Fees (Alcohol fees are in addition to Business License Fees) Category New Renewal Class A (off-premise consumption) $300.00 $300.00 Class B (on-premise consumption) $400.00 $300.00 Single Event Beer $50.00/day $150.00/max N/A General Office Fees Copies (per page) Regular $0.10 Legal $0.25 11x17 $0.50 Diskettes/CD's $10.00 Land Use Ordinance $30.00 Appeal Authority Fees * Appeal Authority (all applications, extensions, & other submittals) $400.00 Time Extension to an approved Variance $250.00 Planning Commission Fees * General Plan or Zone Map Amendment** $400.00 Combination General Plan and Zone Map Change** $600.00 Conditional Use Permits** $500.00 Time Extension to an Approved Conditional Use Permit** $250.00 County road Dedication, Deletion/Vacation from the Official Utah County Road Map $400.00 Land Use Ordinance Text Amendment $300.00 Applicant-Requested Site Visit $300.00 Temporary Use Permits $150.00 Temporary Use Permits (Seasonal Sales & Service - mobile vehicle with no structures, and Commercial Filming with no set construction) $50.00 Temporary Use Vendor Permits $5.00 Preliminary Zone Clearance Request $50.00 Zone Compliance Permit (No fee if a business license or temporary use permit is required) $150.00 Zone Compliance Permit (Fences under 8 ft. in height, Signs under 32 sq. ft, landscape structure, Structure exempt by the adopted building code, and other minor structures and land uses that do not require a building permit, business license or temporary use permit)
 $50.00 Request for Reasonable Accommodation $200.00 Affidavit $25.00 Boundary Adjustments $50.00 Large Scale Developments** Pre-application Conference (if required) $200.00 Subdivisions with 5 acre lots or greater, with no off-site improvements or central water system required 1 to 5 lots*** $650.00 More than 5 lots*** $650.00 + $20.00 per lot for the sixth lot and above All other large scale developments*** $750.00 + $20.00 per lot Subdivision Amendments*** $350.00 + $20.00 per lot PC-Zone Plan (PC Zone Only $300.00 CSP Plan (PC Zone Only) $300.00 Agricultural Protection Area Agriculture Protection** $500.00 Request to Add Land to a Proposed Agricultural Protection Area $50.00 * Each fee includes one appeal to the Utah County Board of Adjustment, or one application to the Utah County Planning Commission, or one permit application, more than one parcel may be included in any of the above indicated actions if all parcels included are contiguous, can be described by an unbroken perimeter boundary, and all included parcels are integral for the purpose of the appeal, application, permit; otherwise, a separate appeal, application, or permit must be submitted with the adopted fee. ** In addition, the applicant shall reimburse Utah County for all required costs of property notice mailing incurred by Utah County. *** The fee covers the first four (4) reviews. The fee for each additional review is $150.00


===== CONSTABLE =====
17-25.2 FEES FOR CONSTABLES – CIVIL .
 (1) Constables may for their own use collect as compensation in civil matters the same fees as those specified for sheriffs in Section 21-2-4.
(2) Constable fees that exceed the amounts in Section 21-2-4 are recoverable:
(a) by the constable only if he has received prior approval for the increased fee from the party requesting the service; and
(b) by prevailing party as a cost of the action only if the court finds the service and increased fee are justifiable.
 17-25-3 FEES FOR CONSTABLES – CRIMINAL .
 (1) (a) In criminal matters constables shall be paid for each copy of a summons, subpoena, notice, court order, or other criminal paper, except a warrant of arrest;
(i) $5 for each defendant served; and
(ii) mileage of $1 per mile for each mile necessarily traveled in going only, to be computed from either the courthouse, or when transmitted by mail, from the post office where received.
(b) If more than one trip is necessary to serve, or diligently attempt to serve, service of process, mileage charges for more than two trips may be collected only if the party requesting the service of process has approved the additional mileage charges.
(c) Each charge shall be individually documented on the affidavit of return of service.
(2) Lower charges may be established by contract for services under this subsection.
(3) If a constable serves process in a county other than the county where the process originated, travel expenses may not exceed the fee that would be charged if served by the sheriff of that county.
(4) (a) For each mile traveled for the purpose of serving, or to diligently attempt service of, a warrant of arrest, both in going to and returning from defendant's address, a fee of $1 may be charged.
(b) If more than one trip is necessary to serve, or diligently attempt to serve, a warrant of arrest, no more than two additional mileage charges may be collected.
(c) Each charge shall be individually documented on the affidavit of return of service.
(5) For arresting each prisoner and bringing him into court, or otherwise satisfying a warrant, a fee of $15 may be charged.
 17-25-4 CONSTABLES' FEES IN CRIMINAL CASES – PROCEDURE .
 Accounts against the county filed by constables for services in criminal cases shall be certified as correct by the county attorney or district attorney and shall be presented to the auditor. The county legislative body may reject such bills in all causes or proceedings in which the county attorney or district attorney has not in writing authorized the issuance of the warrant of arrest.
 17-25-5 CONTRACTS FOR CONSTABLE SERVICES .
 The governing body of any municipality or county where a justice court exists may contract with any one or more of the constables appointed in the county where the court sits to provide services in criminal cases for the contracting governmental entity by any method and for any amount mutually agreed upon.


===== ELECTIONS =====
Utah County Elections 18" x 24" Map $10.00 24" x 36" Map $20.00 36" x 48" Map $30.00 48" x 60" Map $50.00 Candidate Filing Fee: Utah Code Annotated 20A-9-201
(8)(a) Except for a candidate for president or vice president of the United States, the fee for a declaration of candidacy is:
(i) $50 for candidates for the local school district board; and
(ii) $50 plus 1/8 of 1% of the total salary for the full term of office legally paid to the person holding the office for all other federal, state, and county offices. Election Information Requests State Senate (single county) $100.00 State Senate (multi-county) $25.00 State House (single-county) $50.00 State House (multi-county) $25.00 State School (single county) $100.00 State School (multi-county) $50.00 2nd Class County $150.00 1st Class City $100.00 2nd Class City $75.00 3rd Class City and below $50.00 Town $15.00 Local School District Board $25.00 Single Precinct $15.00 Subscription Reports $15.00 Special Research $35.00 per hour


===== FIRE MARSHAL PERMIT =====
The Utah County Government Fee Schedule adopted in book form by Section 2-1-6 of the Utah County Code is hereby amended to add a new section pertaining to Fire Marshal fees to read as follows: 1. Above Ground Fuel Tanks : IFC 105.6.16 (2) a. Permanent 660 - 1,100 Gal. fuel tanks - includes plan review and site inspection $105.00* b. Temporary 660 - 10,000 Gal. fuel tanks - includes plan review and site inspection $105.00* c. Additional tanks at same site (each) $20.00 2. Automatic Fire Sprinkler : IFC 105.7.1 a. Overview of plans, rough-in and final site inspections up to 10,000 square feet $230.00* b. Commercial $330.00* c. Over 10,000 sq. feet (per sq. foot) $0.025 3. Automatic Fire Suppression (Hood and Duct System) Per System : IFC 105.7.1 a. Plan review plus one on-site test and visual inspection $150.00* 4. Burn Permits : IFC 105.6.30 a. Open Burn (valid during open burn periods only) $10.00 b. Agricultural-horticultural (2 calendar year permit) $20.00 5. Carnivals, Fairs, Haunted Events and Similar Special Events : IFC 105.6.4 a. Inspection of plan(s), one visual inspection with an area of 1 acre of less $120.00* b. Over 1 acre (per hour) $40.00 6. Demolition Permit : IFC 3301 $45.00* 7. Exhibits and Trade Shows : IFC 105.6.13 a. Plan review and one visual site inspection $150.00* 8. Explosive Blasting Permit : IFC 105.6.14 a. Single event $90.00* b. Annual permit (same location) $320.00* 9. Fire Alarm System : IFC 907.1 a. Overview of plan(s), one rough-in visual site inspection and one final test $150.00* 10. Fire Code Yearly Inspection Fee : IFC 106.2 a. Basic fee for fire code inspection, review, office costs, enforcement, pre-plan and one follow-up inspection. (Note: Each additional follow-up inspection will be billed separately as a rate of forty dollars per hour plus zone charge.) $110.00* i. Additional structure fee (each building over 500 sq. ft.) $20.00 ii. Exception: Home occupancy business fire inspection (regardless of location) $50.00 11. Fire Hydrants and Valves : IFC 105.6.15 a. Plan review $150.00 b. Visual hydrant site inspection/evaluation (per hydrant) $10.00* c. Test for Static, Residual Pressure and Gallons Per Minute (G.P.M.) (per hydrant) $65.00* 12. Fire Safety Permits : UCC 9-2-1 a. Single family dwelling, outside wildland-urban interface (WUI) area 150.00* i. Remodeling within existing foot print only $110.00* ii. Square footage over 5,000 (per sq. foot) $0.018 iii. Accessory structures and additions $40.00* (1) Square footage over 1,000 (per sq foot) $0.034 b. Single family dwelling within the wildland-urban interface area $205.00* i. Interior remodeling within existing foot print only $110.00* ii. Square footage over 5,000 (per sq. foot) $0.018 iii. Accessory structures and additions when WUI compliance required $70.00 iv. Accessory structures and additions without WUI requirements $70.00 (1) Square footage over 1,000 (per sq. foot) $0.034 c. Duplexes, multi-family dwelling, planned unit development and apartments (minimum) $205.00* i. Square footage over 5,000 (per sq. foot) $0.028 d. Communication towers and commercial wind towers $119.00* e. Water treatment facilities $125.00* f. Pump houses $119.00* g. Solar Arrays $125.00* i. Commercial Solar Arrays $150.00* h. Commercial occupancies other than listed above (minimum) $220.00* i. Square footage over 10,000 (minimum per sw. foot) $0.022 i. All other occupancies or projects $85.00* 13. Hazardous Materials : IFC 105.6.20 (includes annual update of maps, contacts & inventory) a. Hazardous Materials Storage Site $80.00* b. Hazardous Materials Dispensing and Use Site $115.00* c. Hazardous Materials Waste Production $30.00* d. Hazardous Materials Production/Processing Site $155.00* e. Hazardous Materials Minimal Storage Site $20.00* 14. High Piled Storage : IFC 105.6.22 a. Plan Review (if required) $125.00* b. Site inspection $65.00* 15. Hot-work Operation : IFC 105.6.23 $95.00* 16. LP Gas (all tanks above 120 gallons water capacity) : IFC 105.26.27 a. Above ground includes plan review and site inspection $65.00* i. Additional tank(s) each (at same location) $20.00 b. Below ground includes plan review and site inspection $95.00* i. Additional tank(s) each (at same location) $35.00 17. Pyrotechnic Special Effects : IFC 105.6.36 a. Plan review and one site inspection (in addition to any other applicable fees) $120.00* 18. Spraying or Dipping : IFC 105.6.41 a. Plan review and one site inspection (in addition to any other applicable fees) $155.00* 19. Standpipe and Basement Pipe Inlet Systems : IFC 105.7.15 a. Inspection of plan(s), one site inspection and one test $150.00* 20. Tank Removal for Flammable & Combustible Liquids : IFC 5704.2.14 a. Per tank $125.00* 21. Temporary Membrane Structures, Tents and Canopies : IFC 105.6.43 (over 400 sq. feet) a. Plan review and one site inspection $125.00* b. Additional tents at same location (per tent) $10.00 Miscellaneous Permits and Fees : 1. Late Payment Fee (applies 45 days after billing date) $50.00 2. Re-inspection after non-compliance of initial inspection $70.00* 3. Red Tag (Reduced to $50.00 if applications for required permits are filed within two (2) business days from date of posting and if applicant has no history of failure to acquire permits) $150.00 4. Stop Work Order: IFC 111.1 (Reduced to $50.00 if applications for required permits are filed within two (2) business days from date of posting and if applicant has no history of failure to acquire permits) $150.00 5. Additional follow-up inspection will be billed separately (per hour) $40.00* * Plus Zone Fee for travel time and distance (when applicable): a. Zone 1: 10 or less miles one way $15.00 b. Zone 2: Over 10 miles one way $30.00 c. Zone 3: Over 20 miles one way $45.00 d. Zone 4: Over 30 miles one way $65.00 Permit fees may be reduced if the Fire Marshal determines the fee substantially exceeds the cost of providing the service.


===== GENERAL FEES FOR ALL DEPARTMENTS =====
Credit Card Chargeback Fees Instant Payments $25.00 Copies of public documents Letter Size $0.10 Sheet Legal size $0.25 Sheet 11x17 $0.50 Sheet Copies of Utah County Code Complete (Clerk's Office) $20.00 complete Public Computer reports: Letter Size $0.05 sheet Notary Service: Notarized Signature $5.00 Copies of Videos $15.00 Copies of Audio $15.00 Diskettes (computer) $10.00 Additional Pages $0.25 Dispatch tapes: (Minimum 1 hr) $20.00 per hour Publication Prices Development Standards $5.00 Use of State Coordinates Free Utah County Atlas $15.00


===== HEALTH DEPARTMENT =====
Utah County Health Department Fee Schedule is approved by the Utah County Board of Health.

To view health department fees, go to the Health Department website .


===== JUSTICE COURT =====
The Utah County Justice Court fees are subject to the Utah State Legislature and the Administrative Office of the Courts. Justice Court fees can be found in the following locations: Records, Information, and Services: UCJA Rule 4-202.08 Civil Fees (including filing fees): Utah Code 78A-2-301 Utah Code 78A-2-301.5 , Security Surcharges: Utah Code 78A-7-122


===== PUBLIC WORKS =====
Adopted by the Board of County Commissioners on March 1, 2016 PRINTING AND PUBLICATION FEES It is the policy of the Public Works Department of Utah County to provide copies and maps to Utah County general fund departments without charge unless the copies are large in number. Except where exchange agreements are in place, copies and maps are to be sold to other governmental agencies, utility companies and the general public. COPY PRICES 8.5" X 11" $0.10 8.5" X 14" $0.25 11" X 17" $0.50 $Tie Sheets $0.50 MAP AND AERIAL PHOTO PRINTING PRICES 8.5" X 11" $4.00 8.5" X 11" waterproof paper $8.00 11" X 17" $5.00 11" X 17" waterproof paper $10.00 18" X 24" $10.00 24" X 36" $20.00 36" X 48" $30.00 42" X 60" $50.00 MAP PUBLICATION PRICES AND FEES Utah County Atlas $15.00 each Atlas mailing fee $5.00 each Digital map e-mailing fee $5.00 per map Digital map on CD-ROM $5.00 per map INSPECTION & PERMIT FEES INSPECTION FEE Minimum Charge $30.00 Hourly rate $65.00 per hour ACCESS & EXCAVATION PERMIT FEES Access Permit Fee $65.00 Excavation Permit fee $65.00 NOXIOUS WEED Certification/Inspection $100.00 BOND FEES Excavation Bond (refundable) at cost Subdivision Bond (refundable) at cost Land Disturbance Bond (refundable) $2,000.00 LAND DISTURBANCE PERMIT FEES 1 Month $100.00 3 Months $200.00 6 Months $400.00 1 Year $800.00 Additional Months $35.00/month Note: 1 year minimum fee required for multiple lot subdivisions and/or projects proposed that take up to one year to complete. PERSONNEL TIME HOURLY RATES Minimum Charge $30.00 Per employee during regular business hours $65.00/hour Per employee outside of regular business hours $90.00/hour USE OF COUNTY ROADS AND COUNTY PROPERTY BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS NOTE: All rentals require a refundable cleaning deposit. After Hour Events of more than 50 individuals, such as dances and weddings will require an Event Permit Application to be completed (Event Permit fees are included in the room rental rates). A separate security agreement will be required with the Sheriff’s office. ADMINISTRATION BUILDING ROOMS 1. Room 1400: a. After hours events $175.00 rent b. Daytime events $50.00 rent per hour of use 2. Room 1500: a. After hours events $100.00 rent b. Daytime events $40.00 rent per hour of use Refundable Cleaning Deposit - $300. Deposits will be forfeited if the rooms are not cleaned. HEALTH AND JUSTICE BUILDING ROOMS 1. Rooms 1600 and 1601 used as one room or rooms 2500 and 2501 used as one room: a. After hours events $450.00 rent b. Daytime events $75.00 rent per hour of use 2. Rooms 1600, 1601, 2500, or 2501: a. After hours events $200.00 rent b. Daytime events $50.00 rent per hour of use Refundable Cleaning Deposit - $300. Deposits will be forfeited if the rooms are not cleaned. HISTORIC COUNTY COURTHOUSE 1. Ballroom and/or Rotunda (2nd Floor): a. After hours events $2,000.00 rent b. County employee after hours use $1,000.00 rent 2. Ballroom: a. Daytime events $100.00 rent per hour of use 3. Room 319: 5. Photo sessions - groups of 10 individuals or less - excludes media production activities: a. Regular County business days during regular business hours: b. Regular County business days 5:00 PM to 10:00 PM:
(minimum charge per group, will not be pro-rated for shorter periods of time) $100.00 per hour c. Not available at other times 4. Dances: a. Historic Courthouse Rotunda 1. $2,500 per occasion b. Grounds 1. Allowed only on the parking lot located south of 200 South Street. 2. $500 (does NOT include the cost of security as may be required by Provo City or Utah County). GROUNDS 1. Fees for use of grounds adjacent to County buildings will be based on the “Roads and Other Properties” fees set forth herein, or as otherwise specified in an agreement entered into with the County Commission. SECURITY 1. Fees for security shall be determined by the Utah County Sheriff’s office and paid for separately and directly to the Sheriff’s office. These fees are NOT included in the room rental rate listed above. PARKS AND TRAILS A. Times Blocks : Morning only: 7:00 am to 11:00 am Mid-day only: 12:00 pm to 4:00 pm Evening only: 5:00 pm to 9:30 pm B. Available Facilities :
 1. Canyon View Park : a. Pavilion (100 people) Per Time Block $65.00 Full day use $100.00 2. Benjamin Park : a. Pavilion (60 people) Per Time Block $30.00 Full day use $50.00 3. Equestrian Park : a. Pavilion #1, #2, #3, #4 (100 people each) Per Time Block $65.00 Full day use $100.00 b. Arena Annual pass - individual $85.00 Annual pass - family $150.00 Bi-annual pass- individual $42.50 Bi-annual pass - family $75.00 Arena open ride $5.00/person/day Hourly arena rental $35.00 Full day arena rental $250.00 c. Stall Rental Monthly rental per stall $50.00 Refundable deposit $100.00 4. Nunns Park : a. Pavilion Area #1 (50 people) Per Time Block $45.00 Full day use $70.00 b. Pavilion Area #2 (100 people) Per Time Block $65.00 Full day use $100.00 c. Overnight Camping, individual sites (online reservations) No more than 2 vehicles allowed at each camp site Per site (up to 10 people) $30.00 - $40.00 5. Lincoln Beach : a. Pavilion (100 people) Per Time Block $30.00 Full day use $50.00 b. Overnight Camping, individual sites (online reservations) No more than 2 vehicles allowed at each camp site Per site (up to 10 people) $30.00 - $40.00 6. Spanish Fork River Park : a. Group area A (120 people) Overnight camping - main area (Includes pavilion & grass area inside of loop road) $175.00 b. Group area B (120 people) Overnight camping - main area (Includes pavilion & grass area inside of loop road) $175.00 c. Overnight Camping, individual sites (online reservations) Includes individual camp sites A1-A7, B1-B6, C1-C9, and P1-P8 (tents only) No more than 2 vehicles allowed at each camp site Per site (up to 10 people) $30.00 - $60.00 d. Overnight Camping, double sites (online reservations) Includes double camp sites A1, B5 No more than 2 camp trailers allowed at each camp site Per site (up to 20 people) $60.00 e. Overnight Camping, triple sites (online reservations) Includes triple camp sites A4, A7, B1 No more than 3 camp trailers allowed at each camp site Per site (up to 20 people) $60.00 7. Vivian Park : a. East Pavilion #1 (100 people) Per Time Block $65.00 Full day use $100.00 b. West Pavilion #2 (50 people) Per Time Block $45.00 Full day use $70.00 EVENT PERMITS For uses defined in the Utah County Code, involving groups of 50 or more people: a) For events that utilize only one mile or less of a County road, parkway, or trail and do not enter any County park facility
 $50.00 b) For all other events using County roads, parks, parkways, trails or other properties: 1) Base Fee (up to a maximum of $500.00): a) For events with up to 200 participants/spectators $200.00 b) For events with more than 200 participants/spectators $1.00/person Security for Event Permits: Fees for security shall be determined by the Utah County Sheriff's office and paid for separately and directly to the Sheriff's office. These fees are NOT included in the event permit application fee. MEDIA PRODUCTION EVENTS These fees apply to all media production activities except small groups (wedding photos/videos, family photos, news reporting, etc.). All fees listed are minimum requirements and supersede any other fees set forth herein. 1. HISTORIC COUNTY COURTHOUSE - for day use only, after hours events are subject to after hours rental rate a. Ballroom & Rotunda Must be rented together, includes west steps. Includes up to six hours of usage. $600.00 minimum fee 1. Each additional period of up to six hours (may not be pro-rated for fewer hours) $600.00 b. Other rooms, offices, hallways: $100.00 each per day c. West steps: (base fee, includes up to 12 hours of usage) $50.00 2. OTHER BUILDINGS a. Large meeting rooms: $450.00 each per day b. Other rooms, offices, hallways $100.00 each per day 3. GROUNDS ADJACENT TO BUILDINGS, AND ALL OTHER COUNTY PROPERTIES a. $200.00 base fee, includes up to one day of usage of one property b. $100.00 for each additional day and/or each additional property 4. ROADS a. $200.00 base fee, includes up to one day of usage for one logical segment of roadway b. $100.00 for each additional day and/or each additional logical segment of roadway 5. PARKS a. $200.00 plus all applicable park usage fees for entire duration of usage 6. PARKWAYS & TRAILS a. $200.00 base fee, includes up to one day of usage of one parkway or trail b. $100.00 for each additional day and/or each additional parkway or trail Security for Media Production Events: Fees for security shall be determined by the Utah County Sheriff's office and paid for separately and directly to the Sheriff's office. These fees are NOT included in the Media Production Event fees listed above. VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENT RENTAL RATES (Applicable when FEMA rates are not required) Equipment prices do not include the operator. Unless otherwise authorized by the County Commission, all equipment must be operated by County Personnel. EQUIPMENT : Actual fuel costs, herbicide and materials will be added to all equipment rentals. ATV $15/HOUR ATV WITH SPRAYER OR SEEDER $20/HOUR UTV $20/HOUR UTV WITH SPRAYER OR SEEDER $25/HOUR BACKHOE (4X4) $55/HOUR BOOM TRUCK $60/HOUR BROOM TRUCK $45/HOUR CAT D-6 DOZER (110HP) $150/HOUR CHIP SPREADER $120/HOUR DUMP TRUCK (12 YARD) $70/HOUR DUMP TRUCK W/ SANDER & PLOW $75/HOUR DUMP TRUCK W/ PUP TRAILER $80/HOUR GRADER $80/HOUR LOADER (3 YARD) $70/HOUR MARSH MASTER $45/HOUR MARSH MASTER ROLLER OR MOWER $10/HOUR MINI EXCAVATOR $55/HOUR OIL DISTRIBUTOR $65/HOUR OIL DISTRIBUTOR (TOW) $30/HOUR PNEUMATIC ROLLER $45/HOUR POLE TRUCK W/ AUGER $60/HOUR PUMPS $25/HOUR SKID STEER LOADER $45/HOUR SNOCAT W/ 1 TON TRUCK & TRAILER $60/HOUR STEEL VIBRATORY ROLLER $50/HOUR TOW AIR COMPRESSOR $25/HOUR TRACKHOE $85/HOUR TRACTOR (4x4) $35/HOUR TRACTOR MOWER $23/HOUR TRAILER (2 AXLE) $12.50/HOUR TRUCK TRACTOR W/SIDE DUMP $80/HOUR TRUCK TRANSPORT (TILT TRAILER) $85/HOUR WATER TRUCK $60/HOUR WEED MOWER $45/HOUR WEED SPRAYER (300 GALLON) $35/HOUR WEED SPRAYER (700 GALLON) $55/HOUR WELDER $25/HOUR WOOD CHIPPER $30/HOUR MISC SMALL TOOLS (CHAINSAW, LINE TRIMMER, POLE SAW) $3/HOUR VEHICLES : SEDAN, VAN OR PICKUP $35/DAY-$500 MONTH 1 TON TRUCK OR 4X4 UTILITY $50/DAY-$750 MONTH


===== RECORDER =====
Standard Fee Each Document* $40.00 Each additional description or unit over ten** $2.00 Subdivision Maps Per page (24 x 36 mylar) $50.00 Each lot $2.00 Other Fees Copy of Recorded Document per page $1.00 Copy of Ownership Plat $2.00 Copy of Official Subdivision Plat $4.00 Copy of Official Subdivision Plat reduced 50% $2.00 Certification of Document $5.00 Computer Screen Printout $0.50 * Documents include Mining, Federal tax liens or Releases, Licenses issued by Department of Registration, and UCC documents
** Less description, right-of-ways, and easements, when described, are considered an extra description as well as are additional claims on mining documents.
 All fees must be paid in advance. Utah Code § 17-71-407.
 Please make checks payable to: Utah County Recorder 
 Note: All Recording fees are set by State Legislature effective November 6, 2025. Utah Code § 17-71-407.


===== RECOVERY ZONE FACILITY BONDS =====
Part I : The Section of the Utah County Government Fee Schedule adopted in book form by Section 2-1-6 of the Utah County Code, is hereby amended by adding a Fee Schedule relating to the issuance of Recovery Zone Facility Bonds by Utah County as follows: A. Retainer Fee Actual fees, pursuant to the schedule of fees set forth below, shall be deducted from the retainer.
 The balance of the retainer, if any, shall be returned to the Applicant upon completion of the issuance of Recovery Zone Facility Bonds, or upon termination of Applicant's application.
 $5,000.00 B. Administrative costs fee The non-refundable fee shall be deducted from the retainer fee enumerated in Section A hereof. $500.00 C. County Attorney/Deputy Attorney hourly fee as member of County Recovery Zone Facility Bond Review Committee, and for services as Issuer's counsel $200.00 D. Actual time hourly fee of other County officials (including the members of County Recovery Zone Facility Bond Review Committee) $125.00 E. County's Financial Advisor fee Rate of $2.00/$1000.00 of principal amount of bonds with $10,000.00 limit
 F. Any other actual fees or costs incurred by Utah County shall be charged to and shall be paid by the Applicant. Part II : If any of the sections, sentences, clauses or provisions of this ordinance shall for any reason be adjudged inapplicable or invalid by a court of competent jurisdictions, such shall not affect or invalidate the remaining portion contained herein.


===== SECURITY CENTER =====
Private and Civil Commitment Detention Fees These fees apply to all private, non-government entities for persons requesting the detention of a prisoner on a warrant issued outside of Utah County and all civil commitments. Non-REFUNDABLE Processing and Detention Fee for first three days or any part thereof
 $241.75 first day Charges Per Prisoner Per Day $72.25 per day Charges to Prisoners Work Release A daily rate of two times the prisoner's hourly wage. 
Commission or self-employed prisoners will pay a daily rate of two times their hourly rate, based on the prisoner's verified income assuming a 40 hour work week or $20.00/day whichever is greater.
 Jail Reimbursement Fee $42.32 per day GPS Monitoring $10.00/day or one Wage Hour/day whichever is greater
 Work Diversion $25.00 per month Transportation Fee $150.00 per event Visitor Meals $2.50 per meal Inmate Processing Fee $15.00 per stay Locker Fee $10.00/one time per stay Washer/Dryer $0.50 per load Damage Restitution Value of Damage Public Locker fees $0.25 per use Printout of Canteen record $1.00 per record Electronic Payment Fee 3% per electronic payment Governmental Detention Fees Booking Fee $25.00 per booking Charges Per Prisoner Per Day $72.25 per day State Prisoners Per State COP Schedule INS Prisoners Per INS Agreement Prisoner Medical Fees Nursing Services $5.00 Physicians Services $15.00 Dental Services $15.00 Pharmacy services $5.00 Medical Transportation to a non-referral Outside Provider $150.00 Account Summary $5.00 Copies of Medical Records $0.25/page Sex Offender Registration Fee Sex Offender Registration Fee due in the month of the offender's birth $25.00 Civilian Fees Finger Printing $5.00/card Summons Finger Printing $15.00 UCCH Right of Access Fee $25.00/request Inmate Mugshot $5.00 per picture Dispatch Fees to the Cities Per Call (effective July 1, 2006 through June 30, 2007) $9.50 Per Call (effective July 1, 2007 through June 30, 2008) $11.50 Per Call (effective July 1, 2008) $15.50 Fire Dispatch Fee (effective April 13, 2006) $15.50 per call or $500.00 per year, whichever is greater EMS Dispatch Fee (effective April 13, 2006) $15.50 per call or $500.00 per year, whichever is greater *Additional monthly fee for each radio on the 800 megahertz UCAN system $17.50 Deputy Sheriff Reimbursement Fees (All deputy sheriff reimbursement fees effective July 1, 2008) Full-time Patrol Sergeant $132,047.00 per year Full-time Patrol Deputy III $119,025.00 per year Full-time Detective (Deputy III) $111,117.00 per year Full-time Animal Control Deputy II $110,183.00 per year Full-time Office Specialist III - Enforcement $62,767 per year Part-time Patrol Sergeant $59.00 per hour Part-time Patrol Deputy III $53.00 per hour Part-time Detective (Deputy III) $50.00 per hour Part-time Animal Control Deputy II $49.00 per hour Full-time Patrol Office Specialist II - Enforcement $30.00 per hour Deputy Sheriff Reimbursement Fees Exclusive To The City of Eagle Mountain (All deputy sheriff reimbursement fees effective July 1, 2011) Full-time Patrol Lieutenant $134,587 per year Full-time Patrol Sergeant $126,383 per year Full-time Patrol Deputy III $112,471 per year Full-time Detective (Deputy III) $112,936 per year Full-time Animal Control Deputy II $102,886 per year Full-time Office Specialist III $58,755 per year Full-time Office Specialist II $54,847 per year Part-time Patrol Lieutenant $60.00 per hour Part-time Patrol Sergeant $57.00 per hour Part-time Patrol Deputy III $50.00 per hour Part-time Detective (Deputy III) $51.00 per hour Part-time Animal Control Deputy II $46.00 per hour Full-time Office Specialist III $28.00 per hour Full-time Office Specialist II $26.00 per hour


===== SHERIFF'S OFFICE =====
Civil Process Service Fees (Revised May 2020) Utah State Statute allows for the Utah County Sheriff’s Office to receive fees for civil process services. The amounts are governed by Utah Code § 17-22-2.5. The amount charged is determined by the type of process being served plus mileage. There are deposits required for certain types of services and upfront payment is required prior to any service being attempted. However, refunds may be issued if service is not completed or the deposit is more than required once service is rendered. For more information, please contact the Judicial Support Bureau at (801) 851-4036, 4042 or email: civil@utahcounty.gov. 

 General Service Fees : $20.00 for each defendant, plus mileage 
Includes the service of: 
 Garnishment
 Garnishee Execution
 Notice (Note: Evictions require additional process service fees)
 Order (e.g., Order to Show Cause)
 Other process by which an action or proceeding is commenced
 Rule
 Subpoena
 Summons
 Summons and Complaint
 Summons and Petition
 **The Utah County Sheriff’s Office does not charge a fee for the service of protective orders, temporary protective orders, or stalking injunctions. 

 Service of Writs, Attachments and Executions : $50 for each defendant, plus mileage 
Includes the service of:
 An Attachment on Personal Property
 Executing a Civil Order of Arrest or a Civil Bench Warrant. (A non-refundable detention and processing fee of $241.75 to allow for incarceration (up to 3 days) is also required to be paid at time of service request for civil arrest orders and civil bench warrants.)
 Executing an Order for the Delivery of Personal Property
 Writ of Assistance 
 Writ of Execution 
 Writ of Possession
 Writ of Replevin 
 Writ of Restitution 
 Eviction Process :
 Includes:

Posted Notice to Vacate $20, plus 1 Mileage (See mileage costs by City)
Summons and Complaint $20, plus 3 Mileage (See mileage costs by City)
Order/Writ of Restitution $50, plus 1 Mileage (See mileage costs by City)
Total Cost for Eviction Process: $90 for Paper Service Fees plus Mileage Fees

Mileage Fees - $2.50 per mile as follows:
 The fees for 3 one-way trips to the city being served will be charged in addition to the identified civil process fee. All fees must be paid in advance. 
 Miles traveled one way for service (starting address is Provo 4th District Court)
 Miles traveled one way for service plus two additional attempts. Mileage will be charged up front for 3 total one-way attempts unless specified otherwise.
 Miles traveled to transport a Civil Prisoner from place of arrest to Jail or before a Court or Magistrate
 Miles traveled to transport a Civil Prisoner from Jail before a Court or Magistrate
 Miles traveled to transport a mental health patient to the Utah State Hospital or to or from a hospital or a mental health facility, when payable by a private individual. If assistance is required to transport the person, the Sheriff may also charge the actual and necessary cost of that assistance. Mileage Costs by City City Miles - One Way 1 Trip 2 Trips Alpine 19 $47.50 $142.50 American Fork 15 $37.50 $112.50 Benjamin 14 $35.00 $105.00 Birdseye 27 $67.50 $202.50 Cedar Fort 32 $80.00 $240.00 Cedar Hills 16 $40.00 $120.00 Colton 54 $135.00 $405.00 Covered Bridge 17 $42.50 $127.50 Eagle Mountain 29 $72.50 $217.50 Elberta 31 $77.50 $232.50 Elk Ridge 17 $42.50 $127.50 Fairfield 37 $92.50 $277.50 Genola 25 $62.50 $187.50 Goshen 28 $70.00 $210.00 Highland 17 $42.50 $127.50 Hobble Creek 14 $35.00 $105.00 Lake Shore 12 $30.00 $90.00 Lehi 17 $42.50 $127.50 Lindon 9 $22.50 $67.50 Mapleton 10 $25.00 $75.00 Mosida 42 $105.00 $315.00 Orem 5 $12.50 $37.50 Payson 15 $37.50 $112.50 Palmyra 9 $22.50 $67.50 Pleasant Grove 12 $30.00 $90.00 Provo 4 $10.00 $30.00 Salem 13 $32.50 $97.50 Santaquin 21 $52.50 $157.50 Saratoga Springs 23 $57.50 $172.50 Soldier Summit 45 $112.50 $337.50 Spanish Fork 9 $22.50 $67.50 Springdell 8 $20.00 $60.00 Spring Lake 18 $45.00 $135.00 Springville 6 $15.00 $45.00 Sundance 15 $37.50 $112.50 Vineyard 7 $17.50 $52.50 Vivian Park 11 $27.50 $82.50 West Mountain 19 $47.50 $142.50 Woodland Hills 16 $40.00 $120.00 **Add the paper service fee to the mileage fee for total cost of the Civil process service The Utah County Sheriff’s Office requires Deposits for Sheriff Sales as follows : For more information, contact the Judicial Support Bureau at (801) 851-4035 or email: civil@utahcounty.gov Real Property: (Service of process, publication, sale, etc.) $800 Deposit Personal Property: (Service of process, publication, sale, etc.) $600 Deposit Miscellaneous Process and Maintenance Fees as follows Bond – Undertaking, Taking or Approving $5.00 Notary Fee $5.00 Trustee Sale – Posting: 2 Postings @ $20 each plus one mileage $40.00 plus mileage Deputy Sheriff Supplemental Security Services Fee $90.00 per Enforcement/Security deputy per hour (two hour minimum) plus $100 per hour for an additional supervisor for any event requiring more than 3 Enforcement/Security deputies to work. Cancellation Fee Any agreed upon service cancelled without 48 hours notice will be subject to a two (2) hour minimum charge per deputy. Utah County Adult Probation Participation Fee $100.00 per sentence *Any event requiring more than 3 Judicial deputies to work must include a supervisor in addition to the required deputies. In this case, the event holder will be charged an additional fee of $85 per hour for the supervisor’s presence at the event. Records Fee Schedule Accident Reports/DI-9 $15.00 Incident Photos $20.00/case Sheriff Incident Reports $15.00 Dash Cam/Body Cam $20/case plus fees according to UCA 63G-2-203


===== SURVEYOR =====
HOURLY RATES 2 person survey crew $125.00/hour Office calculations and/or research $100.00/hour PLATS ROS (Record of Survey) filing $40.00 per page Local Entity Plat Review $200.00 per plat (unlimited pages) MONUMENTS ( Utah Code § 17-23-14) Survey Monument Excavation Permit $400.00 per monument that is affected Penalty for disturbing survey monuments without a permit First offense $1,500 per monument in project Second offense $2,000 per monument in project Third offense up to $50,000 per monument in project as per ordinance Penalty for not showing monument on drawings or plans for construction work (Utah Code § 17-23-14) First offense $500 per monument not shown on drawings or plans Second offense $1,000 per monument not shown on drawings or plans Third offense up to $5,000 per monument not shown on document as per ordinance Fee for County Surveyor replacements of monuments $1,000.00 per monument OR materials and labor ( whichever is greater )


===== TREASURER =====
Return Check Charge $20.00 Mobile Home Tax Sale Fee $100.00 Personal Property Seizure (minimum) $400.00