

===== 1 County Administration =====
2 County Property 2-100 Motorized Equipment And Vehicles 2-200 Facility Use 2-300 Paths And Sidewalks 2-400 Acceptable Use


===== 2-100 Motorized Equipment And Vehicles =====



===== 2-200 Facility Use =====



===== 2-300 Paths And Sidewalks =====



===== 2-400 Acceptable Use =====
3 Financial Administration 3-100 Cash Handling Policy


===== 3-100 Cash Handling Policy =====
3-101 Definitions 3-102 Responsibilities 3-103 Control Standards For Cash Handling 3-104 Authenticating And Refusing Payment


===== 3-101 Definitions =====
As used in this policy: 
 “Audit Committee” means the committee established by the County Auditor’s Office. “Cash” means any physical tender used to make payments to the County which includes paper currency, coins, checks, and money orders. “Cash handling” means the receiving, confiscating, securing, or depositing cash of any type received by the County. Any employee that receives cash directly, takes custody of cash, or opens mail that may contain cash, is performing Cash Handling. 
 “Cash Handler” means any employee that receives cash directly, takes custody of cash from another employee to balance, deposit, or secure, or opens mail that may contain cash. “Cash over” means a circumstance where too much money is collected and the excess cannot immediately be returned to the customer. 
 “Cash register” includes any container for the storage of cash at a point-of-sale location, such as a cash box or a cash drawer. 
 “Cash short” means a circumstance where a cash handler fails to account for all cash received as payment to the County or makes an error while making change. 
 “Cashier” means any County employee that receives cash directly from the payor. 
 “Custody” means the physical possession or control of funds in a secure location. Custody begins when a cash handler receives funds from the payor, delivery of mail, or from another employee. 
 “Deposit” means a circumstance where custody of cash is transferred to a bank employee or secured drop box. 
 “Dual control” means a circumstance where two individuals share responsibility for a process or outcome. 
 "Foreign currency” means cash which draws on a foreign financial institution. “Loss” means a circumstance where a Cash Handler takes custody of cash and then, due to negligence, fraud, or an act of God, fails to ensure the complete deposit of that cash. “Reconciliation” means the systematic, often daily, verification that internal records match system reports and physical cash on hand. Reconciliation ensures all received funds are accurately recorded, and accounted for, identifying and correcting discrepancies to prevent theft or errors. “Restrictively endorsed” or “restrictive endorsement” means an endorsement limiting payment to a particular person or otherwise prohibiting further transfer or negotiation of the instrument to prevent further transfer or negotiation of the instrument. 
 “Single control” means a circumstance where an individual is solely responsible for a process or outcome. 
 “Segregation of duties” is a form of dual control that ensures that no single person is responsible for every function of the cash handling process. 
 Mitigating controls 
 "Mitigating controls” means activities that are utilized when the risk of fraud or error cannot be eliminated. 
 Mitigating controls for cash handling may include: 
 cameras covering the cash handling process; 
 rotation of duties among multiple personnel; or 
 enhanced monitoring to include unscheduled spot checking of a Cash Handler's work. 
 “Vault” means a secure location for the storing of cash that is not at the point-of-sale location, such as a safe, locked room, or locked drawer.


===== 3-102 Responsibilities =====
The County Commission is responsible for approving the creation of any County bank account. 
 The County Treasurer’s Office is responsible for recommending and creating any County bank account. 
 The Auditor’s Office is responsible for: performing audits of cash handling to determine compliance with this policy and department-specific policies and procedures; presenting findings and other matters resulting from cash handling audits to the applicable department head for a response and corrective action, if appropriate; and providing a copy of the final report of the cash handling audit to the County Audit Committee, County Treasurer, and Chief Financial Officer. 
 A department head whose Department has cash handling duties is responsible for: 
 adopting Department specific written policies and procedures relating to cash handling duties; 
 providing the County Treasurer’s Office with a copy of the most current departmental policy or procedures relating to cash handling duties; 
 ensuring employees with cash handling duties are adequately trained on this policy and related Department policies and procedures; and 
 addressing any audit findings or operational concerns related to cash handling in a timely manner. 
 A supervisor of employees with cash handling duties is responsible for: 
 providing training and monitoring performance of those employees; 
 acknowledging and documenting errors or noncompliance with cash handling policies and procedures if the errors or noncompliance are persistent or significant; and 
 writing up or removing employees who make persistent or significant errors from cash handling duties. 
 An employee assigned to perform or oversee cash handling duties is responsible for: 
 understanding and abiding by this policy and any department-specific policies and procedures for cash handling; and 
 notifying the employee’s supervisor when the employee is uncertain about any applicable cash handling policies and procedures or operational concerns that may arise.


===== 3-103 Control Standards For Cash Handling =====
Each Departmental cash handling procedure shall require the following, as applicable: 
 continuous custody over all funds from receipt to deposit; 
 the issuance of receipts, either manual or cash register generated, for all direct intakes of payments; 
 documentation of the method of payment. 
 documentation on the receipt identifying the cashier; 
 that each cashier will have single control over the cash in a single cash register when practicable. When not practicable, a single person must be designated as the primary cashier who is ultimately responsible for appropriate use and control of access to the cash register by others; 
 restrictive endorsement on checks at the time of deposit preparation; 
 that cash may neither be exchanged for credit card transactions or checks nor used to issue refunds; the establishment of the amount of cash which any one cash register may hold as a beginning balance; 
 the establishment of a cash balance for each cash register that, when exceeded during a shift, necessitates a transfer of cash to the vault; 
 mail processing controls, including: 
 dual control; and 
 that checks should be restrictively endorsed as soon as possible after being opened; and 
 closeout and deposit creation, including: 
 the process by which each cashier must close out his or her session and either: 
 reconcile the cash register to the cash receipting system batch report; or 
 transfer custody of all receipted cash to another cash handler for reconciliation; 
 the process by which reconcilers must verify that cash receipting reports match the cash on hand, including: 
 if reports match the cash on hand, how cash must be secured until a deposit is prepared; 
 if reports do not match the cash on hand, how the cashier or supervisor must determine the discrepancy and make changes to the receipt record or recognize the difference as an over/short amount, including: 
 an over/short amount of less than five dollars ($5) can be processed by the reconciler; and 
 an over/short of more than five dollars ($5) must be approved by a supervisor. 
 Safeguarding Funds.
 Strict control must be maintained over the access to cash at all times. 
 Dual control over the processing and storage of all cash funds should be used, where practical. 
 Access to vaults shall be limited to employees determined appropriate and necessary by the Department. 
 The following controls over the processing and storage of cash should be used, where practicable: 
 Individuals handling cash should be provided separate and secure work areas. When single control over cash is expected, each individual should be provided space to achieve single control. 
 Private areas should be provided for cash reconciliation and deposit preparation. Only authorized individuals should be allowed in cash-handling areas. 
 Each cash handler is responsible for ensuring his or her cash register is locked when the cash handler leaves his or her station. No cash may be left unattended, unless secured. 
 During non-business hours and during business periods where access to cash is not required for two (2) or more hours, all cash must be stored in a vault. 
 Access to vaults should be limited to the smallest number of individuals practicable. 
 Vault combinations must never be written down in the cash-handling area. Vault combinations held by cash handlers who serve as back up to the everyday users of the vault, who may need to write down this combination, should keep the combination offsite or on their person. 
 When an individual who knows the vault combination leaves the County employment, the vault combination or alarm code must be changed within three (3) business days. 
 It is the cash handler's responsibility to immediately notify his or her supervisor or the Treasurer if a key to a cash register or vault is lost. No replacement key will be made, but the lock on the cash register or vault shall be promptly replaced. 
 Reconciling and Depositing Funds and Recording Transactions. 
 All cash payments should be processed and deposited as set forth in Utah Code § 51-4-2. 
 Cash handling functions must be compliant with the internal control set forth in Utah Code § 17-63-605. 
 Independent of cash-handling, monthly reconciliations of bank accounts must be performed and reconciling items identified and communicated to the appropriate person for resolution within five (5) business days. 
 Documents, supporting receipts, and deposits must be prepared and submitted to the County Treasurer’s Office the same day as the cash is deposited in the bank. 
 An individual may not serve in a County cash handling capacity with criminal history record information that reveals a theft conviction of any kind within the last five (5) years. Theft or Robbery Procedures.
 Each department handling cash shall consult with the Sheriff’s Office to ensure the department’s cash handlers are trained on procedures for theft or robbery perpetrated by someone other than a County employee or official. 
 A Department shall instruct its cash handlers how to act during and after a robbery to ensure the safety of employees and members of the public.


===== 3-104 Authenticating And Refusing Payment =====
Cash handlers shall authenticate all paper currency using reasonable authentication methods. 
 A cashier may refuse to accept payment tendered that is unusual or not customary, such as bills of large denominations, large quantities of loose coins, or unusually soiled or damaged bills. 
 Foreign currency shall not be accepted for payment. 4 Personnel Finance 4-100 Travel 4-200 Mileage Reimbursement 4-300 P-Card 4-400 Food And Gift


===== 4-100 Travel =====
4-101 Definitions 4-102 Applicability 4-103 Scope And General Requirements Of Policy 4-104 Approval 4-105 Lodging 4-106 Meals And Incidentals 4-107 Transportation 4-108 Travel Mileage 4-109 Rental Of Vehicles 4-110 Other Expenditures 4-111 Travel Request Reconciliation 4-112 Maintenance Of Travel Records 4-113 Canceled Travel 4-114 Violation Consequences


===== 4-101 Definitions =====
As used in this Policy:
 “Approving Authority" means: the department head or designee, if the traveler is a County employee; the County Attorney, if the traveler is a County elected official; the County Risk Management Office, if the traveler is a non-County employee; or The County Commission, for travel that is or exceeds five (5) days, that exceeds four thousand dollars ($4,000), or if the traveler is the County Attorney. "County card" means a County issued travel or purchasing bank card. “IRS” means the Internal Revenue Service. “Traveler” means a County elected official, employee, volunteer, or other individual who is traveling on County business.


===== 4-102 Applicability =====
The County’s travel policy has been developed to meet the IRS definition of an “accountable plan.” As a result, travel advances paid to travelers do not have to be reported as taxable income to the traveler. This policy is intended to cover all expenses related to in-state overnight and out-of-state travel required for County business. It is not intended to cover travel within the County on County business, same-day in-State travel, or travel covered by other County policies. Notwithstanding anything in this policy, when travel is funded by an outside source, such as reimbursements, grant, or donation, travelers must conform to all applicable rules, laws, and regulations required by the outside funding source.


===== 4-103 Scope And General Requirements Of Policy =====
The County shall pay for reasonable and essential travel-related expenses incurred for the purpose of conducting County business. Travel must have a clear County government purpose. Travelers should exercise prudent judgment in the use of public funds and exercise the same care in incurring expenses that a prudent person would exercise if traveling using personal funds. Documentation.
 Expenses shall be documented and shall leave no reasonable question that such expenses were related to and necessary for conducting County business. 
 Except in circumstances noted in this policy, County payments for travel-related expenses will be only upon submission of proper documentation and itemized receipts.
 The County will not pay for excess costs due to circuitous routes, delays, or luxury accommodations or services unnecessary or unjustified in the performance of County business.
 Travel extensions.
 If a traveler extends his or her stay for personal reasons, any resulting travel expenses such as lodging or meal charges must be paid with personal funds. 
 A traveler extending his or her stay for personal reasons must submit an extended stay form as part of his or her travel approval.


===== 4-104 Approval =====
All County business travel, whether reimbursed by the County or not, must have documented approval by the Approving Authority. The purpose of travel authorization is to prevent disapproval of travel or conference after a reimbursable trip is made and to encumber budgetary funds in compliance with Utah Code § 17-63-501. In the event of travel on County business where part or all of the travel expenses will be covered by an outside agency, a traveler may receive reimbursement from either the County or the outside agency for the travel expenses. This information should be noted in the travel request. Under no circumstances is it permissible for a traveler to request or receive duplicate reimbursement for the same travel expenses. Audit review of travel. All travel is subject to internal audit review. Any expenses not compliant with this policy shall be paid back to the County by the traveler to the County within seven (7) calendar days of the audit finding.


===== 4-105 Lodging =====
When travel requires an overnight stay, the County will pay the cost of lodging. Incidental charges, such as snacks, shall be paid with the traveler's personal funds and shall not be expensed to the County. For any overnight travel, the current IRS lodging per diem rates, as found in IRS Publication 1542, should be used as a guideline for selecting an economical lodging option. The approving authority has discretion to approve lodging expenses considering cost, convenience, and other relevant factors. The County will not pay for additional lodging expenses for anyone other than the traveler. Additional expenses will be the responsibility of the traveler. Travelers will not be reimbursed for lodging-related Utah sales taxes if using a non-County payment method.


===== 4-106 Meals And Incidentals =====
County travelers may receive a meal and incidental allowance, which is intended to compensate the traveler for the cost of meals, applicable taxes, appropriate gratuities, and other expenses associated with the purchase of meals while traveling.
 Compensation for meals and incidentals is paid according to the per diem rate in the most recent IRS Publication 1542. 
 Where partial days are part of the travel schedule, the per diem amount will be seventy-five percent (75%) of the first and last day of travel. For full days of travel, the per diem rate is allocated in the following manner: 
 breakfast: twenty percent (20%);
 lunch: thirty percent (30%); and 
 dinner: fifty percent (50%). Provided meals. Meal deductions.
 When, in addition to the ordinary registration fee paid for a traveler to attend a conference, training, or other function, the County pays for a traveler to attend an associated breakfast, luncheon, dinner, or banquet, the cost of such meals will be deducted from the traveler’s per diem allowance for that day. 
 A deduction will also be made from the per diem allowance for meals, excluding continental breakfasts, included in the registration fee and provided at no extra cost at conferences, trainings, or other functions attended by travelers. 
 Forgoing provided meals. If circumstances arise where the traveler does not participate in meals provided at the conference, training, or function, then the traveler may receive reimbursement for those meals at the proportionate per diem rate. 
 The traveler must submit a written statement to and acknowledged by the approving authority outlining the reasons the traveler did not participate in the provided meals before receiving reimbursement. 
 Per diem requests.
 Per diem requests must be submitted at least ten (10) working days in advance of the traveler’s departure date. Otherwise, issuance of the payment cannot be guaranteed in advance of the travel. 
 On-time requests will be paid to the traveler on the Thursday of the week prior to travel. 
 All per diem payments shall be made by ACH/direct deposit to a bank account designated by the traveler. 
 Per diem allowances for eligible meals in excess of actual expenses may be retained by the traveler.
 County cards.
 In lieu of per diem, travelers may use the County card for necessary meals. 
 The cost of the meal, including taxes, gratuities, and service charges, must not exceed the calculation for each individual meal for which the traveler would have been eligible for a per diem payment as calculated under the requirements of this section of the travel policy. 
 Receipts are encouraged but not required for meal purchases made with a purchasing card. 
 Any cost above the individual meal per diem limitation is a personal expense and must be paid using personal funds. 
 A traveler cannot both utilize the County card for meals and receive a per diem payment during the same trip.


===== 4-107 Transportation =====
The most economical form of transportation should be considered when traveling. Car rentals, personal vehicle, or other means may be used if all factors, such as time from work, risk management, and incidental costs, have been taken into account. 
 The County’s Risk Manager shall be consulted for all travel in a County vehicle outside the state of Utah, except for travel to Clark County, Nevada.
 Ridesharing and taxis.
 Pooling rideshares or taxis with other County travelers is encouraged when possible.
 For ridesharing or taxis, the traveler should select the most economical form of single passenger transportation option that is reasonable and available. Use of higher cost options must be justified by business necessity, such as safety, time constraints, or availability. 
 Tips for rideshares or taxis shall not exceed twenty percent (20%).
 Airline travel.
 Tourist or economy fare for airline travel must be requested and used if available. 
 Since most County travel is planned well in advance, the lowest advance booking rates–considering all relevant factors–should be used.
 A traveler should select the most reasonable that both allows the traveler to attend to any other necessary business obligations prior to travel and allows the traveler to arrive at his or her travel destination on time for the traveler’s business at the destination. 
 Reasonable luggage fees and charges should be included in the cost of travel and will be reimbursed. 
 Seat reservation charge reimbursement.
 Seat reservation charges for standard economy seating are reimbursable. 
 Reimbursement for premium economy, exit row, or upgraded seating requires written justification related to: flight duration; medical need; or business necessity. If it is necessary to purchase airline tickets that are refundable or transferable, it is recommended that these tickets be purchased through the State Travel Office.
 Travel within the state of Utah should be by car, and a full mileage reimbursement will be available for all intra-state travel. If a traveler is traveling out of the state of Utah but chooses to drive, the mileage reimbursement will be limited to the equivalent full air travel expense in lieu of mileage. 
 Out-of-state mileage reimbursement. 
 Approval for full mileage reimbursement in lieu of air travel must include a cost comparison demonstrating that the cost of driving is equal to or less than airfare or is otherwise in the County’s best financial or operational interest. 
 Any out-of-state mileage reimbursement exceeding one thousand dollars ($1000) requires County Commission Approval. 
 The full air travel expense shall consist of:
 the cost of mileage to and from the airport;
 the cost of long-term parking;
 the cost of the flight the traveler would have taken if they had travelled by airline, including any reasonable luggage fees; the cost of either a rental car or taxi service as appropriate; and any other reasonably anticipated costs.
 The approving authority may approve intra-state travelers to travel by air or inter-state travelers for a full mileage reimbursement if it is in the best interest of the County.


===== 4-108 Travel Mileage =====
Travelers will be reimbursed for mileage in accordance with Policy 4-200, Mileage Reimbursement. Mileage reimbursement for the use of a personal vehicle while in overnight travel status at a conference or training is reimbursable for official business, such as travel to and from hotel and conference sites or for meals if no viable food options are available within a five (5) mile radius of the lodging or conference site.
 Mileage for personal meal preferences when options are available nearby is not reimbursable.
 Mileage reimbursement may not be claimed for miles driven for personal use while on County business, such as sightseeing.
 For the purposes of this policy, if a traveler decides to drive for personal reasons, the extra hours needed to drive rather than to fly shall be accounted for as personal time and not County-paid time.


===== 4-109 Rental Of Vehicles =====
County vehicles can be rented for County business from the County Fleet Services. The rental cost of the vehicle will be billed back to the requesting department at the conclusion of the rental period. Gasoline and other associated costs will be the responsibility of the department who rented the vehicle and should be reimbursed to the traveler upon the presentation of receipts. In case of an accident or the need for extensive repairs, an employee involved in an accident or who discerns the need for repairs shall contact the County Fleet Services Division Manager during normal working hours or after hours at 801-851-8600. All travelers renting a County vehicle from Fleet Services must comply with the requirements of Policy 2-100, Motorized Equipment and Vehicles, and only County employees who have taken the mandatory defensive driving class may drive a County vehicle.
 Other rental vehicles shall be obtained, whenever possible, on the applicable state contract to ensure that appropriate insurance is carried on the vehicle. The traveler is personally responsible for any tickets or fines incurred while driving any vehicle.


===== 4-110 Other Expenditures =====
The County will reimburse, upon the receipt of proper documentation and receipts, other expenses such as ground transportation, parking expenses, and official business use of taxis, buses, or other public transportation as approved by the approving authority. 
 Reimbursement for work related travel will only include approved travel costs. A traveler will be responsible for any optional or additional activities. 
 Use of County cards.
 County cards shall be used for County business travel expenses whenever practical and available. 
 A traveler is only permitted to use a personal bank card when circumstances require, such as when: a County card is not available;
 a County card is declined; or
 the timing or nature of the expense makes use of a County card impractical.


===== 4-111 Travel Request Reconciliation =====
Travelers must submit reconciliation of expenses to the County Auditor’s Office in the format approved by that Office within fifteen (15) days of completion of travel, as required by the IRS, or the County may withhold the total amount of the advance from wages or cease approval of travel from the department of the traveler who fails to submit reconciliation information.
 The Auditor’s Office will disallow a claim for travel expense if the traveler: does not properly itemize his or her expenses; does not provide required receipts or other documentation to support the claim; or
 has claims expenses which were not authorized.
 Any discrepancies observed during reconciliation must be resolved by the traveler within thirty (30) days.


===== 4-112 Maintenance Of Travel Records =====
Departments are responsible for maintaining records related to travel including forms, approvals, acknowledgements, reconciliations, and credits for cancelled trips and airfare.


===== 4-113 Canceled Travel =====
If, for any reason, the intended travel is canceled and a per diem allowance has already been paid, the traveler shall return the payment to the County within ten (10) calendar days of when the traveler became aware of the cancelation or decided not to travel. 
 No per diem payments will be issued for future travel until the previous payment has been returned. Departments are responsible for tracking credits from unused airfare and using them for future County business travel.


===== 4-114 Violation Consequences =====
Travelers who are found to be in violation of any part of this policy may be disciplined up to and including: termination of employment; being released as a volunteer; or not being eligible to drive on County business.


===== 4-200 Mileage Reimbursement =====
4-201 Definitions 4-402 Mileage Reimbursement For Eligible Individuals 4-203 Violation Consequences


===== 4-201 Definitions =====
As used in this Policy:
 "Business miles". “Business miles” means the mileage driven between two places of work, whether permanent or temporary. This includes travel for business purposes beyond an employee’s standard commute. “Business miles” do not include miles paid by another source.
 “Commuting miles” means the mileage driven between an employee’s home and customary work site. “Customary work site” means an employee’s work site as reported in Workday. “Eligible individuals” means County personnel who use personal vehicles for County business and are subject to this Policy. “IRS” means the Internal Revenue Service. “IRS standard mileage rate” means the rate provided by the IRS for optional use by an eligible individual of operating an automobile the eligible individual owns or leases for business purposes. The IRS standard mileage rate includes the additional fixed and variable costs for operating a vehicle for business purposes, including: personal auto insurance and deductibles; extra vehicle wear and tear, repair; and
 fuel.
 “Personnel” means County employees, elected officials, volunteers, and interns.
 “Workday” means the County HR system.


===== 4-402 Mileage Reimbursement For Eligible Individuals =====
Eligible individuals may receive reimbursement from the County for business miles driven when use of a County-owned vehicle is not a viable option. A County employee whose position requirement includes driving must acknowledge the expectation to use the employee’s personal vehicle for business miles by signing the employee’s job description.
 Reimbursement shall not cover daily commuting miles. In cases where business travel is directly to a non-customary work site, reimbursable mileage will be calculated as the actual business miles traveled less the employee’s commuting miles.
 In cases where a trip involves both personal and business purposes, the County shall only reimburse the business miles.
 Mileage reimbursements paid to eligible individuals will be paid using the following guidelines:
 Reimbursement Rate. The IRS standard mileage rate shall be the County mileage rate, unless the County Commission approves an alternative rate.
 Route.
 A reputable mapping service, such as Google, Apple, or Tesla Maps, may be used to determine the shortest reasonable route for reimbursement.
 Minor variations from this route due to traffic, construction, or other unforeseen circumstances are acceptable.
 The County will not reimburse excess mileage due to indirect routes. Significant deviations from the shortest reasonable route that result in a
mileage difference that is the lesser of five (5) miles or five percent (5%) must be explained on the Personal Mileage Reimbursement Form and
approved by the department head or designee.
 Reimbursable Mileage.
 Mileage reimbursement may be claimed for business miles driven after a normal work shift if an employee is required to return to work, such as for on-call work.
 See the Utah County Travel Policy for mileage reimbursements for eligible travel.
 Submission and Documentation. The Personal Mileage Reimbursement Form, available in County Human Resources Forms Intranet, must be submitted either biweekly through Workday during the same pay period as the business miles driven or quarterly through the County financial system within ten (10) business days of the quarter’s end.
 Carpooling. Carpooling is encouraged when more than one eligible individual is driving to the same event or location. When eligible individuals choose to travel together in one vehicle, the mileage reimbursement will be paid only to the driver or owner of the vehicle driven.


===== 4-203 Violation Consequences =====
Eligible individuals who are found to be in violation of any part of this policy may be disciplined up to and including termination of employment, being released as a volunteer, or not being eligible to drive on County business.


===== 4-300 P-Card =====



===== 4-400 Food And Gift =====
4-401 Definitions 4-402 Applicability 4-403 Food 4-404 Gifts 4-405 Violation Consequences


===== 4-401 Definitions =====
As used in this policy:
 “IRS” means the Internal Revenue Service. “M&IE” means Meals and Incidentals established by the U.S. General Services Administration.


===== 4-402 Applicability =====
This policy applies to: 
 the purchase of food for the purpose of conducting County business; and the purchase of awards and other recognition items to recognize persons whose contributions significantly further the mission of the County.
 This policy does not apply to: 
 work safety or other employee incentive or recognition programs that are part of an established, written plan and budget approved by the County Commission; per diem payments governed by the County’s Travel Policy; or 
 food purchases for inmates in the Utah County Jail. 
 The County Commission or County purchasing manager may grant exceptions to this policy on a case-by-case basis.
 Applicability of IRS rules.
 Per the IRS any fringe benefit, including food and gifts, provided by the County is taxable and must be included in the recipient’s pay unless the law specifically excludes it. This policy is intended to ensure that the taxability, if applicable, of meals and gifts is handled properly. 
 If any food or gift is paid through the Finance System and is determined to be taxable, IRS rules will apply. It is the responsibility of the Department providing the meals to the employee to understand and comply with these rules.


===== 4-403 Food =====
General Provisions. Expenditure Approval and Process.
 Within the limitations of this policy, all expenditures for meals are at the discretion of the department head or Commissioner whose budget will be impacted by the expenditure. 
 All expenditures are subject to the Utah County Procurement Policy and to each department’s approved budget. 
 Food that is purchased in direct support of a County operation, such as County-sponsored events and support to crime victims, are not subject to this policy. 
 Meal Documentation.
 Unless otherwise specified in this policy, when a department submits a payment request to Accounts Payable for meals, the department must document the names of employees who were provided with a meal and a description of the meeting. In the case of invitees not attending, the department should provide the total number of people that were anticipated to attend. 
 The Auditor’s Office may waive or modify this requirement.
 Generally, departments conducting meetings or training events for County business should attempt to schedule meetings and training events to not conflict with regular meal periods. Discretion should be exercised so that meals are not provided too frequently or for routine consumption, in accordance with the IRS definition of a de minimis benefit.
 Cost of Meals. Unless otherwise specified in this policy, the cost of meals shall not exceed the per diem rate. The per diem rate is the M&IE for the applicable Primary Destination or County that matches the location where the meal is provided multiplied by one of the following percentages set forth in the County’s Travel Policy: 
 fifty percent (50%) for dinners; 
 thirty percent (30%) for lunches; and twenty percent (20%) for breakfasts. Reasonable tips may be included in line with local custom. 
 Tips. Tips of fifteen percent (15%) to twenty percent (20%) are recommended under most circumstances. 
 A written justification is required for any tip that exceeds twenty percent (20%) of the value of the service and is greater than ten dollars ($10.00). 
 The value is not necessarily the amount paid in all circumstances, such as comped or donated meals or services.
 Refreshments. 
 Light refreshments may be provided for County employees or volunteers during County-sponsored meetings or events that enhance the mission of the County. Departments providing refreshments may budget for and expend no more than the daily breakfast per diem rate allowed in this policy. 
 Departments utilizing an appointed or advisory board, committee, or council may provide meals if the meeting or event conflicts with a regular meal period. A department may provide meals to an employee or volunteer who is required, or requested, to stay at or near their work site in order to respond to emergency situations including expedited public vaccination programs, search and rescue operations, and wildland fire events.
 Department heads may provide meals for employees, volunteers, or contractors who are required to remain at work to perform urgent County business during normal mealtimes or for times outside of normal work hours.
 If a department is authorized by a grant or obligated by contract to provide meals or refreshments, the department may expend the amounts as specified in the grant or contract.
 County-Sponsored Meetings. An elected official or department head may provide meals for visiting clients, dignitaries, guests, entities, or agencies who have an appropriate nexus to County business. An elected official, department head, or career service exempt appointed employee may schedule luncheon-type meetings with administrators from other agencies and may purchase his or her meal as well as the meals of other attendees as approved by the elected official or department head.
 A department head or an employee with department head approval attending a meeting related to his or her duties or responsibilities may be provided meals at County expense if the meeting occurs outside of their normal work location and the meeting occurs during a regular meal period.
 Staff Appreciation.
 A department may recognize and show appreciation for its employees by providing meals at parties, picnics, or other recognition events. 
 The total amount budgeted and expended for staff appreciation meals shall not exceed the dinner portion of the daily per diem rate outlined in this policy per employee per year.
 If members of the community volunteer to serve the County in any capacity, the department utilizing those volunteers may provide an annual appreciation meal of up to the dinner portion of the daily per diem rate outlined in this policy per volunteer.
 Working Meal. 
 With department head approval, a working meal may be authorized if conducting business during the meal period will further the mission of the department. Departments must document the names of employees attending the working meal. 
 Working meals may also include team building or training exercises. 
 The cost of working meals should not exceed the dinner portion of the daily per diem rate outlined in this policy.


===== 4-404 Gifts =====
General Provisions. 
 Within the limitations of this policy, all expenditures for gifts are at the discretion of the department head and are subject to: 
 the Utah County Procurement Policy; 
 4-300 P-Card Policy; and 
 each department’s budget.
 Appropriate Occasions for Gifts. Generally, departments should only provide gifts to employees to recognize professional achievements or contributions that are significantly above normal standards or expectations. The County Commission and department heads may provide a gift to a person not employed by the County in recognition of extraordinary, professional achievement that furthers the mission of the County or the department. County Commission or department head may authorize the purchase of flowers, appropriate gifts, or sympathy cards to express condolences to County employees and family members and to families of individuals in the community where the extension of condolences by the County is appropriate.
 Gifts may not be of cash. If a department chooses to provide cash equivalents, gift cards, gift coupons, or gift certificates as a gift, that gift will be taxable to the recipient regardless of the amount of the gift, except for arrangements granting only the right to select and receive tangible personal property from a limited assortment of items preselected or preapproved by the County. An achievement award of tangible personal property may be taxable to the recipient unless it meets the following requirements: it is given to the employee for length of service and the employee receives the award after their first five (5) years of employment; it is awarded as part of a meaningful presentation; it is awarded under conditions and circumstances that don’t create a significant likelihood of disguised pay; and its value does not exceed any IRS limitations.
 Unless otherwise specified, departments providing gifts as indicated in this policy may budget for and expend no more than one hundred twenty-five dollars ($125) per gift. Gifts with no intrinsic monetary value, such as plaques and other mementos, are not subject to the one hundred twenty-five dollar ($125) limitation. Payment Request.
 When a payment request is submitted to Accounts Payable for gifts, the department must provide the names of those who received the gifts. 
 If the gift is a cash equivalent, gift card, gift coupon, or gift certificate, it is recommended the department have the recipient acknowledge receipt of the gift. 
 Departments shall not maintain an inventory of cash equivalents, gift cards, gift coupons, or gift certificates.
 An elected official or department head may provide appreciation gifts to visiting clients, dignitaries, guests, entities, or agencies who have an appropriate nexus to County business.
 Departments utilizing an appointed or advisory board may provide appropriate annual appreciation gifts.
 A department may recognize County employees voluntarily separating from County employment and County elected officials leaving office, as follows:
 After five (5) years of Utah County service, a gift may be purchased with a value of ten dollars ($10) per year of full-time service for career service employees, separating, but not eligible for URS retirement. This value will be prorated for part-time career service employees.
 A department may recognize County employees eligible to retire from the County under the Utah State Retirement System rules with a non-taxable gift purchased with a value of fifty dollars ($50) per year of full-time Utah County service for career service employees not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000). This value will be prorated for part-time career service employees.
 An appreciation reception or celebration, including food and decorations, with a value not to exceed two hundred dollars ($200). After at least ten (10) years of meritorious service to Utah County, an employee who carried a County-owned sidearm during the course of employment shall be awarded the sidearm carried by the employee at the time of leaving service with the County. A sidearm display case or shadow box may be purchased at County expense to accompany the award of the sidearm.
 The Commission or supervising elected official may provide elected and appointed officials leaving County employment at any point an appreciation reception with a value not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300) and a non-taxable gift with a value not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500). Departure gifts should be presented to the departing employee either through a purchase made directly by the County or through a County program whereby employees may select a gift from an approved list. The County should not reimburse or make partial contribution to employees toward the purchase of an employee's gifts.
 Grants.
 If a department is authorized by a grant or contractual obligations to provide gifts, the department may expend the amounts as specified in the grant or contract. 
 Departments are advised that the use of cash equivalents cannot be controlled and may not meet the necessary and reasonable standard required by federal regulations, 2 CFR 200.403(a). 
 It is recommended that departments utilizing grant funds to purchase cash equivalents for gifts obtain explicit written permission to do so from the grantor.
 A department head may not use surplus County property for a gift, except for the gift of a firearm as described in subsection 4-404,4,d.
 If members of the community volunteer to serve Utah County Government in any capacity, the department utilizing those volunteers may provide appropriate appreciation gifts not to exceed the cost of thirty dollars ($30) per gift.
 A department may recognize and show appreciation for its employees by providing appreciation gifts. The total amount budgeted and expended for these appreciation gifts shall not exceed thirty dollars ($30) per employee per year. New Mother Gifts.
a. The HR Department administers a New Mother Gifts program based upon employees who give birth each year. 
b. New mothers are recognized and provided with useful information, including applicable County policies and benefits, and a nominal gift valued at thirty dollars ($30) or less upon return to work.


===== 4-405 Violation Consequences =====
Employees or volunteers who are found to be in violation of any part of this policy may be disciplined up to and including termination of employment or being released as a volunteer. 5 Human Resource Personnel Section 2 Administration Section 3 Employment Section 4 Employee Relations Section 5 Compensation And Benefits


===== Section 2 Administration =====
Policy 2-0100 Administration Of Human Resources Policy 2-0200 County Dept Office Compliance Policy 2-0300 Career Service Council Policy 2-0400 Employment Records Policy 2-1300 Work Week, Pay Period, Time Entry Policy 2-1400 Work Schedules, Rest And Meal Periods Policy 2-1500 Overtime Policy 2-1600 Break Time For Nursing Mothers Policy 2-1700 Telecommuting Policy 2-2400 Employment Of Relatives Policy 2-2500 IT Security, Acceptable Use And Artificial Intelligence


===== Policy 2-0100 Administration Of Human Resources =====
Utah County Government Human Resources Policy Date Approved : April 28, 2021 Section # 2 Section Title Administration Policy # 0100 Policy Title Administration of Human Resources
 2-0100 Administration of Human Resources PURPOSE : The purpose of this policy is to set forth the responsibilities for the administration of the Utah County Human Resource Policies. I. POLICY There is hereby created an Office of Human Resources, administered by a Director of Human Resources. All references to office of personnel management in state law shall refer to the Office of Human Resources for purposes of Utah County Government. The Utah County Office of Human Resources (OHR), under the direction of the Director of Human Resources (HR Director), shall be responsible for the administration of the Utah County Human Resource Policies as set forth below. II. PROCEDURES Applicability The Utah County Human Resources Policies apply to all departments and employees holding Career Service positions in Utah County. Additionally, County employees holding positions designated as exempt from Career Service including, but not limited to, Appointed, Seasonal, and Time Limited employees are covered by the policies and provisions expressly applicable regarding discrimination and harassment; standards of conduct; ethics, and conflict of interest: fitness for duty; drug and alcohol-free workplace; incompatible outside employment; political activity; sexual harassment; employment of relatives; social media and usage of electronic communication devices and services. Notwithstanding the foregoing, rights of appeal and procedural protections contained in these Rules and Regulations are not applicable to employees exempt from career service, who may be terminated at any time for any reason. The role of the Office of Human Resources is to serve as staff support to the County Commission in the management of human resources. The HR Director and the Office of Human Resources, are responsible for the following: Establishment of, and monitoring compliance with the administration of Human Resource policies, rules, standards, and procedures governing employment with Utah County. Comprehensive human resource support of all departments of Utah County; and Duties as outlined in the County Personnel Management Act (Utah Code § 17-75-4). III. REFERENCES Utah Code § 17-75-4 et seq., as amended (County Personnel Management Act) https://le.utah.gov/xcode/Title17/Chapter75/C17-75-P4_2025110620251206.pdf


===== Policy 2-0200 County Dept Office Compliance =====
Utah County Government Human Resources Policy Date Approved: April 28, 2021 Section # 2 Section Title Administration Policy # 0200 Policy Title County Department/Office Compliance Responsibilities 2-0200: County Department/Office Compliance Responsibility PURPOSE : The purpose of this policy is to set forth the applicability of and responsibilities for department compliance with the Utah County Human Resources Policies. I. POLICY County Department Compliance Responsibility. Individuals are employed by Utah County but directed in their assignments by departments, which have the responsibility to manage their own personnel staff in compliance with these Policies. II. PROCEDURE The HR Director may authorize special exceptions to provisions of these Policies when permitted by law and when justified by unique and compelling circumstances in a department. Department employment records, practices, policies, and procedures are subject to audit by the Office of Human Resources. Department policies and procedures manuals may be adopted to address internal department operations. Any department policies and procedures that conflict with the Utah County Office of Human Resources Policies, or which concern employment matters addressed in the Utah County Office of Human Resource Policies, or which are assigned to the HR Director by the County Personnel Management Act, Utah Code § 17-75-4 et seq., are hereby rescinded. The determination as to whether the departmental policy is in conflict with the Office of Human Resources Policies shall be made by the Director. For departments supervised by an appointed or merit employee department head, departmental policies and procedures and subsequent modifications will have effect after approval by the HR Director and the County Commission after legal review by the County Attorney. For departments supervised by an elected department head, departmental policies and procedures and subsequent modifications must be approved as follows, after legal review by the County Attorney: Policies and procedures concerning employment matters will have effect after approval by the HR Director and the County Commission. Policies and procedures concerning matters of general county administrative ordinances, rules or policies, or the legislative powers, duties, or functions of the county will have effect after approval by the County Commission. Policies that pertain to the performance of the elected officer’s functions, duties, and responsibilities specifically provided for by law may be established by the elected department head consistent with existing law. The purpose of this policy is to set forth the applicability of and responsibilities for department compliance with existing law. Utah County departments shall revise department policies and procedures manuals consistent with paragraphs II.C.1. and 2. and shall promptly update their policies and procedures manuals consistent with changes in policies and procedures approved by the HR Director. All department policies and procedures manuals shall contain disclaimer language approved by the County Attorney as to form, content, and placement in departmental policies and procedures manuals which advise County employees that the terms of the manual are not intended to form the basis of a contractual relationship between the County and the employee and may be revised or changed at any time. III. REFERENCES Utah Code § 7-75-4 et seq., as amended (County Personnel Management Act) https://le.utah.gov/xcode/Title17/Chapter75/C17-75-P4_2025110620251206.pdf


===== Policy 2-0300 Career Service Council =====
Utah County Government Human Resources Policy Date Approved: February 19, 2025 Section # 2 Section Title Administration Policy # 0300 Policy Title Career Services Council 2-0300: Career Service Council I. POLICY There shall be in Utah County a three-member bipartisan Career Service Council appointed by the governing body. The members of the council shall be people in sympathy with the application of merit principles to public employment. The council shall hear appeals not resolved at lower levels in the cases of career service employees suspended without pay, demoted, or dismissed; it shall review written appeals in cases of applicants rejected for examination; and shall report final binding appeals decisions, in writing, to the governing body. A right of appeal to the district court under the provisions of the Utah Rules of Civil Procedure shall not be abridged. II. PROCEDURE Council Member qualifications, term, vacancies, compensation. Members of the council shall be United States citizens and be actual bona fide residents of the State of Utah and Utah County for a period of not less than one year preceding the date of appointment, and a member may not hold another government office or be employed by the County. Each council member shall serve a term of three years to expire on June 30, three years after the date of his or her appointment. Successors of original council members shall be chosen for three-year terms. Each member of the board shall hold office until his or her successor is appointed and confirmed. An appointment to fill a vacancy on the council shall be for only the unexpired term of the appointee's predecessor. A member of the council may be removed by the governing body for cause, after having been given a copy of the charges against him or her and an opportunity to be heard publicly on the charges before the governing body. Adequate annual budget appropriations and clerical assistance from the Office of Human Resources shall be made available to enable the council to effectively carry out its duties under these policies. Council members shall receive compensation at the rate of $125 per diem, as established by the governing body, for each day or part thereof they are in session; except that the compensation rate may be adjusted periodically for inflation by the governing body. The council shall elect one of its members as chairperson, and two or more members of the council shall constitute a quorum necessary for carrying on the business and activity of the council. Grievances. For the purpose of this policy, a grievance is defined as a dispute filed by a Career Service employee concerning his/her suspension, transfer, demotion, dismissal (termination), or the application of express term(s) of these rules, which deprive a Career Service tenure employee of his/her accrued and/or existing pay and/or benefits. A grievance does not include a dispute for which other appeal processes are provided in the Office of Human Resources Policies or a dispute specifically excluded from the Career Service Council review by said policies. A grievance does not include matters for which the Utah Division of Antidiscrimination and Labor has jurisdiction. The council shall have subpoena power to compel the attendance of witnesses and to authorize witness fees, where it deems appropriate, to be paid at the same rate as in justice courts. Career Service Council proceedings will be informal and shall be patterned after guidelines prepared by the County which are consistent with the requirements of formal adjudicative proceedings contained in the Utah Administrative Procedures Act, U.C.A. 63-46B-1, et. seq. 1953 as amended. The Administrative Procedures Act is a guide only and will not be strictly followed or applied. III. REFERENCES Utah Division of Antidiscrimination and Labor Utah Administrative Procedures Act, U.C.A. 63-46B-1, et. seq. 1953, as amended https://le.utah.gov/xcode/Title17/Chapter75/C17-75-P5_2025110620251206.pdf


===== Policy 2-0400 Employment Records =====
Utah County Government Human Resources Policy Date Approved: April 28, 2021 Section # 2 Section Title Administration Policy # 0400 Policy Title Employment Records 2-0400: Employment Records PURPOSE : The purpose of this policy is to set forth Utah County’s policy regarding the management of employment records. I. POLICY The Office of Human Resources shall keep the official record of employment for each Utah County employee, in compliance with state and federal law and in furtherance of the purposes of these Human Resources policies. II. PROCEDURE The official employment record of each employee shall be kept in the Office of Human Resources and shall contain, as appropriate: Record of application for employment; Transcripts of academic preparation; Performance appraisal ratings; Any formal reprimand or other corrective action; Records of actions affecting employee salary; and Commendations submitted for placement in an employment file. An individual employment record may be kept in the department to contain copies of items recorded in the official record and other materials as required by department management. Any such individual record shall be subject to the rules governing employment records. The department, upon request, will supply the employee with a copy of any document it places in the employee's file. An employee has the right to review the contents of his or her employment record in the Office of Human Resources, or the department as governed by law and may challenge any information in the official employment record. Additionally, an employee may provide rebuttal comments to be attached to original documents where the employee believes appropriate. Such rebuttal comments must be restricted to the document in question. If disciplinary action is rescinded or disapproved upon appeal, forms, documents, and records pertaining to the case shall be removed from the employment records. Employment records shall be private data and available for review only to the employee and users authorized by law or as determined by the HR Director to have a legitimate "need to know". A record of those, other than Office of Human Resources staff, reviewing employment records and information shall be maintained together with the reasons for access to the records. Requests for confirmation of employment, dates of employment, position, salary range (other than withholding information) and County telephone and work address directory information will be treated as public data. Unless otherwise required by law, Utah County will make no references positive or negative regarding particular employees in response to any request for any verification of employment.


===== Policy 2-1300 Work Week, Pay Period, Time Entry =====
Utah County Government Human Resources Policy Date Approved: February 19, 2025 Section # 2 Section Title Administration Policy # 1300 Policy Title Work Week, Pay Period, and Time Entry 2-1300: Work Week, Pay Period, and Time Entry I. POLICY Utah County has a standard Work Week and Pay Period Schedule. Time entry must be accounted for in the HRIS, and clock-in requirements for employees may be modified as needed by the Department Head. II. PROCEDURE Work Week and Pay Period. Utah County’s work week begins at 6:00 a.m. Saturday and ends at 5:59 a.m. the following Saturday. A pay period consists of two (2) consecutive work weeks as designated by the County’s pay period schedule. Pay period schedules are designated and published annually by the Office of Human Resources. Work Hour Accounting and Time Entry Obligation Full Time, Hourly, Public. Each full-time, FLSA non-exempt, hourly, public employee shall account for a minimum of forty (40) hours each work week in the Human Resource Information System (hereinafter, HRIS). Paid leave cannot be used to exceed eighty (80) hours per pay period, except in the case of an operational exigency and with the approval of the Department Head. All leave must comply with Policy 5-0500. Full Time, Hourly, and Public Safety. Full-time, FLSA non-exempt, hourly, public-safety employees shall account for a minimum of eighty (80) hours of time each pay period in the HRIS. Paid leave cannot be used to exceed eighty-six (86) hours per pay period except in the case of an operational exigency and with the approval of the department head. All leave must comply with Policy 5-0500. Any pay period work schedule, other than eighty (80) hours, in a pay period must provide benefit to the County and have Utah County Sheriff approval. Public safety employees regularly scheduled to work greater than eighty (80) hours per pay period must account for their full scheduled work hours each pay period unless on an approved leave of absence. Full Time, Salaried. FLSA-exempt, salaried employees, shall account for eighty (80) productive hours each pay period. If the employee is unable to work eighty (80) hours in the pay period,l leave time must be used to make up the difference. FLSA-exempt employees are limited from being paid more than their authorized biweekly salary rate for Utah County Government service unless as part of a Department Head designated and Human Resources approved comp time plan. FLSA-exempt employees shall not have deductions from their pay, except as provided under federal and state law. Half-Time, Hourly. Employees holding Career Service, half(½) time positions must account for a minimum of forty (40) work hours per pay period and may not work more than twenty-five (25) hours in any workweek. Occasional exceptions may be allowed in unusual circumstances if requested in advance by the Department Head and approved by the HR Director. All employees must follow the same documentation requirement defined below in Time Entry. Paid leave cannot be used to exceed forty (40) hours per pay period except in the case of an operational exigency and with the approval of the Department Head and HR Director. All leave must comply with Policy 5-0500. Three-quarters, hourly. Employees holding Career Service three-quarters (¾) time positions must account for a minimum of sixty (60) hours per pay period, and may not work more than forty (40) hours in a work week. Occasional exceptions may be allowed in unusual circumstances if requested in advance by the Department Head and approved by the HR Director. All employees must follow the same documentation requirement defined below in Time Entry. Paid leave cannot be used to exceed sixty (60) hours per pay period, except in the case of an operational exigency and with the approval of the department head and HR Director. Time Entry. Except for elected officials, the commission office and some appointed employees are not required to report time. All employees are required to account for their worked time in the HRIS by project. Hourly non-exempt employees may be required to check in and out using the HRIS timekeeping system as required by departmental needs and as designated by each Department Head. Mobile Time Entry. All employees who have been designated by prior departmental approval to use the mobile time clock must designate their location and work function in the comments section for each check-in and check-out at remote locations as directed by the Department Head. Audit and Review. Reporting will be utilized to audit time entry and review compliance with this policy. All time is subject to review and audit by supervisors, Department Heads, the Office of Human Resources, and the Commission. Employees who do not enter required comments are subject to progressive discipline in accordance with Policy 4-8000. III. REFERENCE https://www.dol.gov/agencies/whd


===== Policy 2-1400 Work Schedules, Rest And Meal Periods =====
Utah County Government Human Resources Policy Date Approved: February 19, 2025 Section # 2 Section Title Administration Policy # 1400 Policy Title Work Schedules, Rest, and Meal Periods 2-1400: Work Schedules, Rest, and Meal Periods I. POLICY Employee Work Schedules. Employee work schedule expectations are based on position classification and status. The Department Head may make exceptions to work schedules in the case of an operational emergency. Otherwise shall be administered in compliance with the FLSA. II. PROCEDURE Work Schedules Employee work schedules shall be set by department supervisors. Schedules shall be based on County needs and provide adequate staff coverage during normal business hours of the department. The normal work schedule for full-time County employees is forty (40) productive hours per week. Public safety employees may be regularly scheduled for more than eighty (80) productive hours per pay period depending upon schedule and departmental need. Typically, full-time employees will be scheduled to work eight (8) hours a day, five (5) days per work week, with an unpaid meal period. An employee may request, and the department head may authorize, a daily starting and quitting time that differs from usual department hours. Different work schedules (e.g.. 4/10s) may be authorized by the department head and with the advisement of the Office of Human Resources if the schedule will provide benefit to the County by increasing work efficiency. Rest Periods Paid rest breaks of not more than 15-minute duration, usually one (1) to be taken at least an hour prior to the meal period and one (1) to be taken at least an hour after the meal period, will be scheduled by departments for each County employee. The purpose of granting rest periods is to relieve mental strain and fatigue, and therefore the following practices are not permitted: Combining two daily breaks into one 30-minute rest period. "Banking" rest period time from day to day. Saving rest period time to extend lunch hours or shorten workdays. Requesting compensatory time off or pay for work performed during rest periods. Meal Periods Meal periods are usually of one-hour duration and are unpaid. Each full-time employee must have a scheduled meal period of at least one-half hour, unless the meal period is compensable in accordance with the Fair Labor Standards Act, as amended. Lunch hours may be staggered if the department must continue uninterrupted public service. Employees may or may not be permitted to eat at their workplace depending on the nature of the job and the department policy. Work shall not be performed during unpaid meal periods. Requesting compensatory time off or pay for work performed during unpaid meal periods is not authorized. Part-time employees working a shift greater than 6 hours, should be permitted a minimum 30-minute unpaid meal period. III. REFERENCE HR Policy 2-1300


===== Policy 2-1500 Overtime =====
Utah County Government Human Resources Policy Date Approved : December 22, 2021 Section # 2 Section Title Administration Policy # 1500 Policy Title Overtime 2-1500: Overtime PURPOSE: This policy defines overtime compensation eligibility for Utah County Government (Utah County or County) employees and sets forth the procedures for the application and use of overtime in Utah County operations. It is the intent of this policy to comply with the Fair Labor Standards Act. I. POLICY Overtime compensation is set by application of guidelines derived from the Fair Labor Standards Act, as amended (FLSA). Those employees eligible to receive overtime compensation for Utah County Government service are all County employees except those who are considered exempt from the overtime provisions of the FLSA. Employees who are exempt and therefore, not eligible for overtime pay or compensatory time off are certain management and professional employees. II. PROCEDURE Overtime is defined as hours worked more than forty (40) hours during any one work week. The number of hours worked over two or more work weeks cannot be averaged to avoid payment of overtime. Non-exempt Public Safety employees (Peace Officer’s Standards and Training Certified, i.e., POST Certified); however, utilize a work period of fourteen (14) days with a maximum of eighty-six (86) allowable hours before overtime compensation is paid. Department heads may assign and authorize an employee to perform extra work on an overtime basis. All overtime work must have the above-described supervisory authorization before the work is performed unless overtime is required due to an emergency situation. In the case of an operational emergency requiring overtime work, the employee must inform their supervisor as soon as possible. Department determination of overtime needs is subject to review and change by the Office of Human Resources, Auditor's Office, and approval by the County Commission. There is no guarantee of overtime work and supervisors may manage and limit overtime scheduled based on operational needs. The amount of time accounted for by paid leave, holidays, or on-call status will not be included in calculating hours for overtime pay. Overtime shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half times the regular hourly rate of pay for the employee. However, compensatory time off at time-and-one-half times regular time may be granted in lieu of overtime pay. The employee may designate the desired compensation option; however, the department head determines the compensation option to be applied. Employees may accrue up to eighty (80) hours of compensatory time. Accrued compensatory time should be taken off as soon as is practical but should be used within one year of accrual. Purpose The policy defines overtime compensation eligibility for Utah County Government (Utah County or County) employees and sets forth the procedures for the application and use of overtime in Utah County operations. It is the intent of this policy to comply with the Fair Labor Standards Act. Utah County Human Resource Policy 2-1500: Overtime. All overtime hours worked more than the maximum accrual must be paid when worked. All accrued compensatory time shall be paid based on the regular rate earned by the employee at the time the employee receives such payment. Employees are encouraged to use compensatory time quickly and shall be permitted to use such time off within a reasonable period after making a request if the use of the compensatory time does not unduly disrupt the operations of the department. Employees are expected to use accrued compensatory time before using accrued vacation time. Exceptions may be made by the HR Director upon request of the department head. Employees promoted from non-exempt positions to positions considered exempt from the overtime provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act, as amended, shall be paid out for all remaining officially accrued compensatory time at their regular hourly rate of pay in the non-exempt position. Additionally, employees laterally transferring to another department, may be paid for all or a portion of the balance of officially accrued compensatory time by the department from which the employee is transferred. Justification of Overtime All overtime will be justified and approved by the department head or designee. Employees must receive approval from their supervisor prior to working overtime. Employees who work unapproved overtime are subject to progressive discipline. Overtime reimbursed by Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). FEMA guidelines will be followed and are recognized as being different from the overtime regulations listed above. FEMA overtime will be paid at time and one-half times the regular rate. Payment will be made on the employee’s gross pay and will not include payment on benefits. Compensatory time cannot be taken in lieu of cash payment FEMA overtime will be entered on time sheets under the “other pay” column which initiates a tax deduction and no benefits payment. Employees eligible to receive overtime through FEMA are listed in FEMA guidelines. Contract Law-Enforcement Services All requests to Utah County from a person, business, or organization (contract entity) to utilize Utah County Sheriff’s Office Public Safety employees (POST Certified) who would otherwise be off duty, in an official law enforcement capacity, must first be approved by the Sheriff. The contract entity costs to utilize POST Certified employees of the Utah County Sheriff’s Office will be calculated to cover the County’s cost of employee wages, benefits, and any overhead required to provide the agreed-upon services. Costs shall include a pay premium for employees in Fair Labor Standards Act non-exempt positions of one-half the employee’s regular hourly rate. POST Certified employees of the Utah County Sheriff's Office, at their own option, may choose to perform special duty work in fire protection, law enforcement, or related activities as an employee of Utah County for a contract entity under contract with the Sheriff during their otherwise off-duty hours. The hours of work for the contracting entity may be combined with the hours worked for Utah County for purposes of overtime compensation. Contract entity law enforcement service requests filled by an employee in Fair Labor Standards Act exempt positions will be paid to the employee at an hourly rate based upon their current annual rate of pay. III. REFERENCE https://www.dol.gov/whd/flsa https://www.dol.gov/whd/regs/compliance/whdfs8.pdf


===== Policy 2-1600 Break Time For Nursing Mothers =====
Utah County Government Human Resources Policy Date Approved: August 18, 2021 Section # 2 Section Title Administration Policy # 1600 Policy Title Break Time for Nursing Mothers 2-1600: Break Time for Nursing Mothers PURPOSE : It is the intent and purpose of this policy, in compliance with State and Federal Law, to encourage and support employees who are nursing their children as a means of promoting the health of mother and child. I. POLICY Following her child’s birth, an employee who is nursing will be allowed reasonable break time as needed to nurse or express breast milk for her nursing child. II. PROCEDURE Utah County departments will ensure that an employee who is nursing will be allowed reasonable break time needed to nurse or express breast milk for her nursing child as needed following the birth of the child. The frequency and length of such breaks will depend on the needs of the mother and will likely vary. The employee should inform her supervisors regarding the frequency and duration needs for nursing or expression of breast milk. To the extent that break time is needed in excess of the meal and rest periods described in Utah County Human Resources Policy 2-1400, such break time may be paid time. Break rooms with electrical outlets, which are free from intrusion from coworkers and the public, have been designated for nursing and expression of breast milk in each of the main County buildings. Refrigerators must also be provided for the temporary storage of breast milk. Rooms designated for nursing mothers shall be easily accessible to nursing mothers and designed to provide a comfortable and welcoming environment. If nursing or breast milk expression breaks are needed in other locations, employees should consult with their supervisors and/or the Director to determine an appropriate location. III. REFERENCES https://www.dol.gov/whd/nursingmothers https://le.utah.gov/~2015/bills/static/hb0242.html


===== Policy 2-1700 Telecommuting =====
Utah County Government Human Resources Policy Date Approved: June 30 , 2021 Section # 2 Section Title Administration Policy # 1700 Policy Title Telecommuting 2-1700: Telecommuting PURPOSE: It is the purpose of this policy and procedures to describe the general purposes and conditions under which remote telecommuting for work purposes will be permitted in Utah County Government (Utah County or County) employment. I. POLICY It is the policy of Utah County that all jobs are performed on-site at Utah County Offices except as required by the job function and as directed by the various directors or elected officials of each department or office. Telecommuting may be a workplace alternative where a Department Head determines that an employee or employees may perform some or all of their assigned duties at the employee’s place of residence. Approved telecommuting is a management tool and does not change the basic terms and conditions of employment. Telecommuting arrangements are provisional in nature and should not be considered a permanent arrangement. II. PROCEDURE Telecommuting must be authorized by the employee’s department head. Management of telecommuting employees shall conform to the policies of Utah County. Telecommuting employees shall be managed and treated the same as in-situ employees and shall be afforded the same opportunities for evaluations, training, assignments, job advancement, or other growth opportunities. Management should understand that managing telecommuting employees may require additional duties depending on circumstances and managers are expected to perform the terms under the telecommuting arrangement the same as an employee. Eligibility. To be eligible for telecommuting, the following requirements must be met: The employee’s job description should indicate whether the essential functions may be performed remotely. This determination may be made on a case-by-case basis as requests are made for telecommuting status. Where the job description has not yet been modified to indicate eligibility, the employee must not have, as their essential job function, duties that require onsite activity that cannot be handled remotely or at an alternate worksite as determined by the Department Head and the Human Resources Department. If telecommuting is requested by an employee, the employee must currently be in good standing and not under any disciplinary action or corrective action plan. A determination by the Department Head that allowing the employee to telecommute must be in the best interests of the County. Review and Approval: The Department Head shall review the telecommuting request taking into consideration the following factors: Needs of the department or division. Needs of the employee. Ability of the employee to perform the job duties and the supervisor to assess and review the work performed. Availability and costs of necessary equipment. Availability of an OSHA-compliant workspace, as certified by the employee, at the remote location (normally the employee’s primary residence). Employee’s current and past job performance, as documented in performance evaluations, including time management, organizational skills, self-motivation, and the ability to work independently. Effect on the service provided by the County or required by law. Effect on the division or department. Whether there is an ability to have measurable objectives and results upon which the employee can be evaluated. Other appropriate factors may bear on the decision. Annual review of the arrangement during the employee’s appraisal and updated and amended as needed. Work hours and performance expectations: At a minimum, employees are expected to work the full schedule for which they were hired, whether full-time or part-time. Telecommuting arrangements shall set forth the specific work schedule expected of the employee which may not result in fewer hours than those normally expected. The work schedule may allow for periodic or routine teleworking days with varying hours in the office as directed by the department head. The working of overtime, accrual of compensatory time, or taking paid leave shall be subject to the same rules and conditions set forth in Utah County Human Resources Policy 5-0500: Leave. To enhance and ensure the performance of duties, Department heads may impose measurable performance standards or benchmarks to meet as part of the Telecommuting arrangement. Arrangements shall also indicate daily communications requirements. Employees are generally expected to be available to their supervisors and others by phone, text, email, etc. during the regular work hours set forth above. Computers & Equipment: The use of County-owned or purchased equipment in a telecommuting environment is considered a privilege and not an entitlement or benefit of the employee. An employee wishing to telecommute may be required to provide and maintain all necessary equipment at their own cost. The County is under no obligation to purchase additional equipment or Internet/Wi-Fi capability for the sole purpose of allowing an employee to telecommute. County provided: Any county-owned equipment shall always remain, the property of Utah County, and the use of Utah County equipment in a telecommuting environment shall not absolve or eliminate the employee’s need to follow all Utah state laws and County policies regarding the personal use of County-owned equipment. The employee shall also agree to keep the equipment safe, maintained, and functioning. Maintenance of County-owned equipment should be done only by Utah County. Computers and related equipment should be maintained by Information Services (IS) and it will be the employee’s responsibility to bring the equipment to IS. Employee provided: In the event the employee elects to use their personal equipment and not County owned equipment, the equipment shall be reviewed to ensure it is compliant with County policies and sufficient for the needs of the employee and department. The employee shall acknowledge that all County work products produced on their privately owned equipment shall still be subject to subsection II.H, below. Maintenance and repair of employee-owned equipment shall be the sole responsibility of the employee. All work product produced as part of employment is considered the property of the County and shall be subject to relevant provisions of the Government Records Access Management Act (GRAMA), discovery in litigation, and inspection or review at any time by supervisors, department heads, the County Executive, or their designees. Internet: The employee shall acknowledge and confirm if required, that they have access to an acceptable Internet provider with sufficient speed as identified by IS department to allow the employee to perform their necessary job functions. Office Supplies The department head shall set forth any arrangement regarding the use and costs of general office supplies, including but not limited to paper, pens, software, ink, staplers, paperclips, etc. Reimbursement by the County for costs of general office supplies will only occur if it is within budgeted limits for those supplies. Communication methods: Utah County IS and the employee’s Department Head shall determine which meeting and communication systems are required for the employee to telecommute. Abuse: Employees who intentionally violate the telecommuting agreement may be subject to disciplinary action up to and including termination. Telecommuting is not a substitute for dependent care and should not be used for such. Employees who are telecommuting shall not be available for dependent care during the agreed work schedule. The employee’s primary home residence workspace will be the only workspace considered an extension of the County’s on-site workspace. Telecommuting from any other location is not authorized except as specifically directed by the department head in exigent circumstances. Utah County Public Works or the Department Head may reassign office space used by the employee who is approved for telecommuting. Taxes: It will be the employee’s responsibility to determine any personal income tax implications of maintaining a home office area. Termination of the Telecommuting arrangement: The Department Head may terminate the telecommuting arrangement at any time. Employees wishing to terminate the arrangement must work with their supervisors to establish an end date and the transition to on-site employment. Department Heads must grant employees sufficient time to transition back to on-site employment. In the event a telecommuting arrangement is terminated, or the employee leaves the employ of Utah County, all County owned equipment shall be immediately returned to the County. Damage to or failure to return equipment may be charged against the employee if the act was intentional.


===== Policy 2-2400 Employment Of Relatives =====
Utah County Government Human Resources Policy Date Approved: April 28, 2021 Section # 2 Section Title Administration Policy # 2400 Policy Title Employment of Relatives 2-2400: Employment of Relatives PURPOSE: The hiring of employees in departments supervised by relatives, or in departments where work relationships with a close relative are necessary, provides an environment where favoritism, and discrimination, real or perceived, can result. This can seriously disrupt the workplace and negatively affect morale. The purpose of this policy is to define the conditions under which relatives of Utah County employees will be considered for employment. I. POLICY Utah County will consider employment applications from relatives of current employees whenever openings exist for which they are qualified. Hiring decisions, however, will be made solely on the basis of merit and relatives will not receive preferential treatment. When the decision is made to hire a relative of a current employee, placement within the organization will comply with existing state law under Utah Code Annotated (UCA) Section 53-2-1, et seq. II. PROCEDURES No person shall be hired, or appointed to any position of employment, nor will be directly supervised by a relative as defined in UCA Section 53-2-1(1)(e) except as follows: The appointee will be employed for a period of 12 weeks or less, The appointee is the only person available, qualified, or eligible for the position, or The appointee’s department head determines that the relative is the only person available or best qualified to perform supervisory functions for the appointee. No employee may directly supervise a relative, except as follows: The relative was appointed or employed before the employee assumed his or her supervisory position. The relative will be employed for a period of 12 weeks or less, The relative is the only person available, qualified, or eligible for the position; or The department head determines that the employee is the only person available or best qualified to perform supervisory functions for the relative. No appointee may accept or retain employment if he or she is under the direct supervision of a relative, except as follows: The relative was appointed or employed before the appointee assumed his or her position. The appointee will be employed for a period of 12 weeks or less, The appointee is the only person available, qualified, or eligible for the position; or The department head determines that the appointee’s relative is the only person available or best qualified to perform supervisory functions for the appointee. When an employee supervises a relative under paragraphs A.3., B.4. or C.4 above: The employee shall make a complete written disclosure of the relationship to the employee’s department head. A copy of the written disclosure must also be filed with the Office of Human Resources (OHR). The employee who exercises authority over a relative may not evaluate the relative's job performance or recommend salary increases for the relative. No County employee shall have access to a relative's employment file or any other confidential information relevant to employment at Utah County unless it is determined by the HR Director that such employee has a legitimate need to know. III. REFERENCES Utah Code Annotated (UCA) Section 52-2-1, et seq. https://le.utah.gov/xcode/Title52/Chapter3/52-3-S1.html


===== Policy 2-2500 IT Security, Acceptable Use And Artificial Intelligence =====
Utah County Government Human Resources Policy Date Approved: April 10, 2024/September 17, 2025 Section # 2 Section Title Administration Policy # 2500 Policy Title Information Technology Security and Acceptable Use 2- 2500: Information Technology Security and Acceptable Use PURPOSE: This policy is designed to ensure that information technology (IT) resources and systems owned by Utah County are used efficiently and appropriately. All Utah County employees, volunteers, elected officials, and appointed officers are aware of the acceptable use of IT resources and systems, and Utah County Information Systems Department will monitor the use of IT resources and systems and enforce compliance with this policy. OBJECTIVE : The objective of this policy is to mitigate risk by; effectively managing security exposure or compromise of County IT resources and systems, communicating the responsibilities for the protection of County IT resources and systems, and promoting and increasing awareness regarding information security . I. POLICY It is the policy of Utah County that IT resources and systems are valuable government resources that must be used efficiently and appropriately to carry out the business of Utah County. Utah County will monitor and enforce this policy to ensure that its employees and others do not use County IT resources and systems for impermissible personal uses or for any other uses that violate this policy. The Utah County Information Systems Department shall implement practices and procedures that promote compliance with this policy. The Utah County Information Systems Department may adopt more restrictive practices than this policy based on business requirements. Utah County is committed to implementing new technologies for communication and information storage, analysis, and exchange, when such will make the County’s employees more productive and increase the County’s capacity to better serve the residents of Utah County. The County encourages the work-related use of information technology (IT) resources including computers and other electronic communication devices and services as effective and efficient communication tools and as valuable sources of information. Computers and other electronic communication devices and services provided by the County are County property, their purpose is to facilitate County business, and their use is subject to County control and policy. This policy applies to all Utah County employees, contractors, consultants, and volunteers; others with a business association with Utah County shall adhere to this policy insofar as they use IT resources and systems owned or leased by Utah County or any device that connects to any Utah County network or resides at a Utah County facility. II. DEFINITIONS A. Active Directory (AD) Account An Active Directory account allows Utah County employees, and employees of entities that contract with Utah County for IT services, to log into computers joined to the County's domain to access County IT resources and systems. Each employee has an individual Active Directory account assigned to them; it is an employee’s personal identifying credential for access to County IT resources and systems. B. Pornography Any visual depiction, including any lie performance, photograph, film, video, picture, or computer or computer-generated image or picture, whether made or produced by electronic, mechanical, or other means, of sexually explicit conduct. C. Child Pornography As defined in Utah State Code 76-5b-103, any visual depiction, including any live performance, photograph, film, video, picture, or computer or computer-generated image or picture, whether made or produced by electronic, mechanical, or other means, of sexually explicit conduct, where: 1. The production of the visual depiction involves the use of a minor engaging in sexually explicit conduct. 2. The visual depiction is of a minor engaging in sexually explicit conduct; or 3. The visual depiction has been created, adapted, or modified to appear that an identifiable minor is engaging in sexually explicit conduct. D . Computer Technician Information Systems staff, typically Computer Support Technicians, who in the course and scope of the individual's employment for compensation installs, maintains, troubleshoots, upgrades, or repairs computer hardware, software, personal computer networks, or peripheral equipment E. IT Resource(s) and/or System(s) Computers, hardware, software, data, storage media, electronic communications (including, but not limited to, e-mail, and fax), networks, operational procedures, and processes used in the collection, processing, storage, sharing, or distribution of information within, or with any access beyond ordinary public access to, the County's shared computing and network infrastructure. F. Proxy Avoidance and Anonymizer Services Services that are used to bypass content filtering safeguards and policies. Users of proxy avoidance and anonymizer services can connect to a proxy service in order to access websites that may otherwise be blocked by security controls. III. OWNERSHIP, ACCESS, AND EXPECTATION OF PRIVACY A. Ownership County IT Resources and Systems are the property of Utah County, not the user. No Utah County IT resource or system or information contained therein may become the private property of any system user. The County owns all legal rights to control, transfer, or use all or any part or product of its IT resources and systems, as determined by the Information Systems Department, regardless of which department purchased the resource or system. Employee e-mails, text messages, faxes, etc. generated on County IT resources or systems are County property and are subject to County monitoring, control, transfer, or use despite any designation as confidential by the sender or recipient. B. Access and Control Utah County reserves and exercises all rights relating to all information and programming assets. The Utah County Information Systems Department is responsible for granting users access to County IT resources and systems, which is limited to that which is required to do their work, and for revoking user access in a timely manner. The Utah County Information Systems Department may withdraw permission for any or all use of its IT resources and systems at any time without notice. C. Privacy Employees have no reasonable expectation of privacy with their use of IT resources including but not limited to electronic communications sent to/from or stored on County IT resources or systems, and the County reserves the right to preserve, review, and disclose any such electronic communications without prior notice in the case of litigation, GRAMA requests, to protect the County's interests or comply with applicable laws. Users are subject to applicable public records retention laws and rules. IV. ACCEPTABLE USE OF COUNTY IT RESOURCES AND SYSTEMS A. Lawful and Ethical Use Use of County IT resources and systems shall not violate County Human Resources policies, including but not limited to "Harassment, Discrimination and Retaliation" and "Standards of Conduct." IT resources shall not be used for knowingly transmitting, receiving, retrieving, or storing any communications that are derogatory to any individual or group, are pornographic, lewd, indecent, or of a sexual nature, or are of a defamatory or threatening nature. B. Legal Compliance Use of County IT resources and systems shall comply with copyrights, licenses, contracts, intellectual property rights, and laws associated with data, software programs, and other materials made available through those systems. Data and records maintained in these IT resources and systems shall comply with relevant federal and state access and privacy laws. C. Confidentiality of IT Resources and Systems Users shall respect the confidentiality of County IT resources and systems and shall not attempt to: access third-party systems without prior authorization by the Information Systems Department; obtain or use another employee’s login credentials to any County IT resources and systems; attempt to defeat or breach computer or network security measures; intercept, access, monitor or peruse electronic files, information, or communications; disseminate County data through unauthorized communication channels without specific County business need to do so, disseminate County programming code, or any proprietary or technological intellectual property of the County through unauthorized communication channels without specific County business need to do so, and prior written approval from the Information Systems Department. D. Data Integrity Users shall not knowingly destroy, misrepresent, or inappropriately change the data or records stored in County IT resources and systems. E. Operational Efficiency Operation or use of County IT resources and systems shall be conducted in a manner that will not impair the availability, reliability, or performance of County business processes and systems, or unnecessarily contribute to system or network congestion. F. Accounts and Account Passwords All users in the scope of this policy shall be properly authorized and authenticated to use County IT resources and systems. All those in the scope of this policy who use County IT resources and systems shall never share their password with anyone for any reason. Failure to protect your password may result in disciplinary action in accordance with County disciplinary policies. G. Protecting Government Data All protected government data, to include private, controlled, and protected records as defined in Utah Code 63G-2-103 and "personal data" as defined in Utah Code 63A-19-101, must reside within a secure infrastructure/database that is either managed or fully vetted by the Information Systems Department. The use of consumer-grade database platforms, such as Microsoft Access, for storing alternative copies of protected government data are strictly prohibited. To ensure the integrity, security, and proper management of protected government data, Utah County employees are strictly prohibited from creating, storing, or maintaining copies of protected government data on unapproved infrastructure/database systems. H. Prohibition of Unauthorized Bulk Email Services To ensure the security, confidentiality, and proper management of all outgoing county-related communications and to comply with Government Records Access and Management Act (GRAMA) requirements, this policy prohibits the use of unauthorized bulk email services by County employees. All bulk email communications must be conducted through approved platforms administered and monitored by the County's Information Systems (IS) Department to protect sensitive information and maintain compliance with applicable laws. 1. Use of Approved Bulk Email Services: All County employees must use bulk email platforms approved and administered by the County's IS Department for sending mass communications to the public, other agencies, or internal staff. No County employee is authorized to use any external or consumer-grade bulk email services, e.g., Mailchimp, Constant Contact, Mailjet, etc., for official County business unless explicitly approved by the IS Department.
2. Compliance with GRAMA: All outgoing emails, including bulk emails, are subject to the Government Records Access and Management Act (GRAMA). Employees must ensure that all communications are properly archived, and records are accessible in accordance with GRAMA requirements.
3. Security and Confidentiality : To safeguard sensitive information and maintain the security of County data, all bulk email communications must be routed through the County's approved and secured platforms.
4. Monitoring and Accountability: The IS Department reserves the right to monitor all bulk email activities conducted through County-approved platforms. Employees are expected to adhere to best practices for data security. Any exceptions to this policy must be approved in writing by the County's IS Department and will be granted on a case-by-case basis for valid business reasons. V. PERSONAL USE OF COUNTY IT RESOURCES AND SYSTEMS IT resources and services are provided for County business use and should not be used for personal, outside business or employment, or non-County related purposes. However, limited, occasional, or incidental use of electronic communication devices and services (sending or receiving) for personal, non-County purposes, is acceptable insofar as that use complies with County policy, does not interfere with the County’s business activities, and so long as such use does not involve any use described under Section II.D Specific Limitations on Personal Use section of this policy, or any of the following: 1. Interference with or violation of County rules or policies 2. Disruption or distraction from the conduct of County business (e.g., due to volume or frequency) 3. A for-profit personal business activity 4. Potential to harm the County 5. Illegal activities 6. The display, storage, or recording of any kind of sexually explicit, harassing, or discriminatory image or document. See Section II.B. B. Specific Limitations on Personal Use 1. County Network Services Personal, third-party, or County IT resources and systems shall not be connected to any County provisioned network unless that connection is approved by the Information System Department. 2. Guest Internet Services Guest network access is provided at several County locations, typically through a Wi-Fi access point. Guest networks are provided for the convenience of the public and are to be considered "as-is" with no warranty of safety or security for the user. County IT resources and systems shall not be connected to any County provisioned "Guest" network or other network provided strictly for the convenience of the public. 3. Electronic Communication Services Electronic communication services, including e-mail messages, fax messages, or other electronic communications, that attempt to hide the identity of the user or represent the user as someone else are prohibited. Confidential information transmitted externally shall be appropriately protected. Electronic communications may be a record under federal or state laws and regulations, and all users of County IT resources and systems are responsible for ensuring compliance with County policy regarding the archiving of government records. Employees who terminate or are terminated from employment have no right to their electronic communications and are not allowed to access any County electronic communication services immediately upon termination. 4. Personal Software, Content, and Hardware Audio, video, and software files, which are personally owned and are for personal use, shall not be downloaded to, transferred to, or installed on any County IT resource or system unless approved by the Utah County Information Systems Department and the employee’s supervisor or department head. 5. Remote Access Systems Use of remote access systems that provide access to County IT resources or systems is allowed for County business use only. All remote access to County IT resources and systems must make use of Information Systems Department-approved and provisioned remote access systems. Telecommunicating users must comply with the Utah County Human Resource Policy 2-1700: Telecommunicating. 6. Personal Use of Streaming Media Resources The County's internet connection is a valuable, limited resource that is reserved primarily for county business use. Limited personal use of the County's internet connection is allowed, if approved by their department head, and only if it does not create a disruption of services to others. The Information Systems Department may, at its sole discretion and without warning, limit access to web services that are negatively impacting our ability to maintain effective operations. 7. Personal Use of Encryption Personal hardware, software, or encryption keys may not be used to encrypt information on any County IT resource or system. 8. Personal Solicitation County IT resources or systems shall not be used for personal solicitation, including solicitation for or against commercial ventures, products, religious or political causes, or outside organizations. 9. Proxy Avoidance and Anonymizer Services Filtering websites containing inappropriate or illegal content, suspected malware, phishing services, and other fraudulent services is an essential tool the County uses to protect the security of Utah County’s IT infrastructure. Any use of "Proxy Avoidance" or "Anonymizer" or "Anonymizing" services to bypass this filtering is prohibited. See the definition of Proxy Avoidance and Anonymizers in Section II.E. C. Monitoring, Control, and Compliance 1. Monitoring of County IT Resources and Systems The County has the right, at its discretion, to monitor its IT resources and systems to ensure they are being used appropriately and are functioning properly. The County routinely monitors usage patterns and monitors and logs all internet usage for each county user. 2. No Expectation of Privacy No county employee should have any expectation of privacy as to their IT resources usage including internet history and email. The County will review network activity, internet activity, and other IT resources and analyze usage patterns and may choose to disclose this data in any manner the County deems appropriate to assure that the County’s IT infrastructure is being used appropriately and operating at the highest levels of productivity. VI. PURCHASING OF THIRD-PARTY SOFTWARE, PROGRAMMING AND APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT AND WEB DOMAINS A. Procurement of Third-Party Software Installation and use of third-party software have the potential to introduce dangerous security risks or negatively impact the performance of Utah County’s IT infrastructure. All software purchases must have prior approval from the Information Systems Department. B. Programming & Application Development To mitigate security and performance risks to the County’s IT infrastructure, all in-house programming should be reserved solely for Information Systems staff. All third-party contractors providing customized programming services or application development work must be vetted and approved by the Information Systems Department before contracts are signed. In addition, third-party contractor work must be coordinated by the Information Systems Department to ensure quality control and sufficient security is implemented. C. Web Domains Since a .gov domain is only available to bona fide US-based government organizations, using it signals trust and credibility. This establishes digital services (e.g. websites, emails) as official, trusted sources for information. All web domains managed and maintained by Utah County departments must be purchased and renewed by the Information Systems Department. All new web domains must end in a “.gov” suffix. Any non-.gov (i.e., .com, .net, .org) should be migrated to a .gov domain as soon as possible. VII. REPORTING SUSPICIOUS ACTIVITY, THE DISCOVERY OF INAPPROPRIATE CONTENT, PORNOGRAPHY, or CHILD PORNOGRAPHY ON COUNTY IT RESOURCES AND SYSTEMS A. Discovery of Suspicious Network Activity or Potential Phishing Emails All users who discover suspicious network activity or receive electronic communication such as a phishing email should immediately notify the Information Systems Department by contacting the IT Operations Manager, the IT Operations help desk, or the IT Director. B. Discovery of Inappropriate Content or Pornography by Users All users who discover inappropriate content, including any form of pornography, harassing, or discriminatory material on County IT Resources and/or Systems, should immediately notify the IT Operations Manager, the IT Director, or the Human Resource Department. The IS Department and Human Resources Department will coordinate appropriately in response to any reported violation. C. Discovery of Child Pornography by Information Systems Staff A computer technician who, in the course of employment for compensation, views an image on a county computer, network hardware, or other electronic device that is, or appears to be, child p ornography shall immediately report the finding, as required by law (section 76-10-1204.5, Utah Code Annotated 1953), to the IT Operations Manager or IT Director who shall report to the County HR Director and/or County Attorney or investigation and appropriate action. Human Resources and/or the County Attorney shall report the case to the local police department with jurisdiction or the Attorney General crime against children task force for appropriate charges.. VIII. IT SECURITY AWARENESS PROGRAM Utah County takes its responsibility to protect County IT resources and systems seriously. To help County employees and those within the scope of this policy to understand the risks in using modern technology and how to effectively defend against cyber threats both at work and at home, County IT will provide various methods of training and testing on IT security awareness. IX. MANDATORY INFORMATION SECURITY AWARENESS TRAINING All County employees with an individual Active Directory account, and those within the scope of this policy, are required to complete IT security awareness training on an annual basis. The training, usually in the form of online modules or in-person presentations, is provided by the Information Systems Department or a contractor approved by the Information Systems Department. Employees are expected to participate in additional reinforcement training such as short videos, newsletters, webcasts, emails, surveys, and assessments as provided by Information Systems Department or a cyber security contractor approved by the Information Systems Department. X. EDUCATION ABOUT INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SECURITY AND ACCEPTABLE USE POLICY Training will be provided to County employees regarding this policy. XI . ENFORCEMENT Anyone found to have knowingly violated this policy shall be subject to disciplinary action, including but not limited to temporary loss of network connectivity, loss of Internet access, or complete and permanent termination of access to any Utah County network, which can lead to other disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal from County employment. Elected Officers. Any elected officer found to have violated this policy may be publicly censored and referred to the County Attorney or Utah State Attorney General by a member of the County Commission for further investigations and action. EMPLOYEE POLICY FOR THE ACCEPTABLE USE OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE I. PURPOSE The purpose of this policy is to address risks and responsibilities associated with utilizing AI in a government organization. It aims to establish guidelines that protect both employees and members of the public whose records and Personal Identifying Information are under County control. II. PROCEDURES A. Definitions 1. "Artificial Intelligence” or “AI” means any artificial system that: (a) performs tasks under varying and unpredictable circumstances without significant human oversight, or that can learn from experience and improve performance when exposed to data sets; (b) is developed in computer software, physical hardware, or other context that solves tasks requiring human-like perception, cognition, planning, learning, communication, or physical action; (c) is designed to think or act like a human, including cognitive architectures and neural networks; or (d) is designed to act rationally, including an intelligent software agent or embodied robot that achieves goals using perception, planning, reasoning, learning, communicating, decision making, and acting. b. “Artificial Intelligence” includes a set of techniques, including machine learning, that is designed to approximate a cognitive task. c. The following is a non-exhaustive list of commercially available AI-driven applications to provide examples of the AI applications for which this policy will apply. Employees are responsible for the use of proper use of an AI application defined by this policy or similar to the applications listed below: (1) content creation (ChatGPT, Google, BARD, Bing Chat, Copy.ai, Jasper, Surfer) (2) text enhancement (Grammarly, Wordtune, Hemingway); (3) image generation (Adobe, neural.love, Stable Diffusion, DALL-E 2, Illustroke); (4) note taking (Mem); (5) video creation (Fliki, Synthesia, Lumen5); (6) audio creation (Sounddraw); (7) logo creation (Looka); (8) transcription (Otter); (9) slide decks and presentations (Beautiful.ai); (10) research (genei); or (11) automation (Zapier's OpenAI Integration). 2. “Personal identifying information” or “PII” means information that can be used to distinguish or trace an individual's identity. PII includes: a. direct identifiers, which can individually identify a person, including: (1) Social Security Number (SSN); (2) driver’s license number or state identification number; (3) passport number; (4) financial account numbers (e.g., bank account, credit or debit card numbers); (5) medical or disability information that could reasonably identify an individual; (6) biometric data (e.g., fingerprints, facial recognition data); (7) electronic signatures and authentication credentials (e.g., usernames, passwords, PINs); (8) employee identification numbers; and b. associated indentifiers, which may require combination with other data to identify a person, including an individual’s: (1) name; (2) birth date; (3) physical address; (4) telephone number; (5) place of employment; (6) photograph or other likeness; or (7) job title. B. Prohibited Use 1. Employees and departments are prohibited from inputting any PII into any AI application, except for those explicitly approved and listed on the County's official AI Approved Applications list https://utahcounty.sharepoint.com/sites/InformationSystems/SitePages/AI-Acceptable-Applications.aspx 2. To request that an AI tool or software be added to the approved list for official County business involving PII or confidential information, employees must obtain prior written approval from the Information Systems Department’s Director, Associate Director, Operations Manager, or Information Security Manager. 3. Employees and departments are permitted to purchase or use AI tools and applications for official County business as long as they do not process, store, or transmit PII or confidential information, except for those explicitly denied and listed on the County’s AI Prohibited Applications List https://utahcounty.sharepoint.com/sites/InformationSystems/SitePages/AI-Acceptable-Applications.aspx . Such tools must still comply with all other applicable County policies and security requirements. C. Accountability Employees using content generated through AI applications are personally accountable for any inaccuracies, biases, incompleteness, or infringement of intellectual property. D. Compliance The County's response to policy violations will follow established procedures, which may include investigations, corrective actions, and potential disciplinary measures.


===== Section 3 Employment =====
Policy 3-1000 Selection Of Career Service Policy 3-3000 Separations Policy 3-4000 Employee Status, Probation, And Trial Periods


===== Policy 3-1000 Selection Of Career Service =====
Utah County Government Human Resources Policy Date Approved: March 29, 2023 Section # 3 Section Title Employment Policy # 1000 Policy Title Selection of Career and Career Service Exempt 3-10 00: Selection of Career and Career Service Exempt PURPOSE : The purpose of this policy is to set forth the process for recruitment and selection of career service and career service exempt positions at Utah County. I. POLICY Career Service and Career Service Exempt Positions Recruitment and selection activities to fill career service positions shall be governed by merit principles established by the County Personnel Management Act, Utah Code § 17-75-402, and in accordance with equal opportunity principles. The appointing/hiring authority may use any process deemed appropriate to select employees for career service, or exempt positions, except where statutory requirements specify otherwise. The selection process used must be in accordance with established policies on non-discrimination in employment. Authorization to Fill a Position Departments have the authority to request that the Office of Human Resources (OHR) recruit to fill those career service positions which are included in the approved staffing plan and for which sufficient funds are available. II. PROCEDURE Order of Selection for Career Service Positions Reappointment. Any Career Service employee accepting an appointment to an exempt position with the County who is later not retained in the exempt position by the appointing officer, unless discharged for cause, shall be eligible for reappointment. Employees identified and eligible for reappointment may be selected to a career service position having a pay step range comparable to the employee’s last position in the Career Service provided the employee meets the position qualifications and an opening exists. Employees may be selected to a lesser position, pending the opening of a position having a comparable pay step range to the employee’s last position in the Career Service. Employees eligible for reappointment shall have precedence over any other candidates. Reassignment. Within the same County Department, the Department Head has the authority to reassign an incumbent for administrative or other work-related reasons from a position to another position in the same class or to another class having the same pay step range provided the incumbent meets the qualifications of the new position. Rehire. A roster of career service employees who have been laid off or prescheduled to be laid off because of elimination of position or reduction in force may be maintained to facilitate rehire. The rehire roster shall be valid for six (6) months and be available to the hiring Department with the competitive recruitment employment register. A selection may be made from either register. Competitive Recruitment or Employee Transfer. If a selection is not made through a reappointment or reassignment, the OHR may open the position for competitive recruitment or a lateral employee transfer may be made. With Commission consultation, the OHR may authorize non-competitive selections in the occasional instance where there is evidence that open or limited competition is not practical. Recruitment The OHR shall administer a recruitment and selection program for career service positions with the County in accordance with Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) laws and regulations and according to merit principles established by the County Personnel Management Act, Utah Code § 17-75-502. To achieve the results intended by the application of merit principles, and with Commission consultation, the HR Director may modify or suspend the operation of this policy. The HR Director must provide in writing the justification for such action. Recruiting efforts are to be planned and carried out in a manner that assures open competition, with special emphasis to be placed on recruiting efforts to attract groups that are substantially underrepresented in the County workforce to help assure they will be among the candidates from whom selections are made. Regular analyses of labor market composition may be made to provide guidance on inclusive recruitment strategies. The HR Director may suspend, modify, or discontinue any rule, practice, or procedure found to have a disparate impact on members of protected groups. Recruitment of employees shall be conducted according to a hiring plan established by the OHR and requesting Department. The hiring plan should include the following: A job announcement that contains information relating to the position including minimum qualifications, essential functions, starting pay, recruiting timeline (if applicable), and other information deemed appropriate by the OHR; Details of the strategy for notice of the vacancy. The scope and magnitude of all recruitment activity shall be at the level deemed warranted by the OHR to attract a sufficient number of qualified applicants to compete for a particular vacant position including other information as approved by the HR Director. Competitive recruitments, as defined below, are Internal, Open, or Continuous. Internal recruitment may be used only with the Department Head's approval. Internal Recruitment. Open to all current career service. Internal recruitments shall specify a minimum posting period of seven (7) calendar days and shall clearly state review dates, job posting closing dates, and/or other recruitment timelines. The OHR may restrict internal recruitment to include only career service employees of a specific department. Open Recruitment. Open to all current employees and to the general public. The job announcement for open recruitment shall typically specify a posting period of fourteen (14) calendar days and shall state a closing date. Posting periods may run longer than fourteen (14) calendar days but no shorter than seven (7) calendar days. The OHR may designate review dates, job posting closing dates, and/or other recruitment timelines. Continuous Recruitment. Open to all current employees and to the general public. In instances where the need for applicants is continuous, the OHR may recruit for a position without designating a closing date. If a register has not been requested within a three (3) month period, the OHR may determine whether the need for continuous recruitment is still warranted. Applications An official Utah County employment application must be completed using the online system to be considered for selection. Exceptions to this procedure may be made on a case-by-case basis and only in unique circumstances. Incomplete applications will not be considered. A separate employment application must be submitted for each position for which an applicant applies. Unless stated otherwise in the job announcement, applications must be received by the OHR no later than 11:59 p.m. (MST) on the published review or closing or review date of the position. Late applications will not be considered unless the OHR authorizes the acceptance of late applications. Applications that require attachments must be accompanied by the said attachments to be considered. Required attachments will be listed in the posting announcement. Applicants wanting to claim college, business, armed forces, or vocational school credit must submit transcripts or other official documents (original, scan, or photocopy) to receive credit towards meeting the minimum requirements for the position. Attachments will not be accepted late unless requested by the OHR. Screening Applications. The OHR will screen all applications received for career service and time-limited positions to determine if each applicant meets the position’s minimum qualifications. The OHR shall treat all applicants for a given vacancy in the same manner when determining if an applicant meets the minimum qualifications. Eligibility Review Eligibility review may be used to further determine the eligibility of applicants for employment in a career service position. Evaluations used shall be based on job requirements and designed to measure or predict likely success in the position. The OHR shall determine the content of the evaluation(s) used for selection to a career service position. Evaluations must be in compliance with Federal and State laws and must be approved by the HR Director or their designee. The review process may include a combination of the following evaluations: Application screenings based upon specific job-related criteria, supplemental reviews/ratings, written examinations, performance tests, oral boards, and/or other examination tools deemed appropriate by the HR Director or their designee. Administration of the review process shall be according to instructions issued by the HR Director or their designee, which provide for: Security of review and scores; Timely notification of applicants; Unbiased results; and Elimination from consideration of those applicants who abuse the review process. The HR Director or their designee may refuse to consider an applicant, or after review refuses to include an applicant, who: Is found to lack any of the posted essential requirements established for the position. Is found to have made false or misleading statements of material information in the application package. Is found to have used, or attempted to use, any unfair method to obtain an advantage in an evaluation or review including directly or indirectly obtaining confidential information on the content of the examination. Is found to have been convicted of a crime substantially related to the qualifications, functions, or duties of the position for which application is made. Is found to have within one (1) year of the current application, previously failed a post-offer pre-hire screening process for any other position at Utah County. Is found to have applied and interviewed for a specific position previously with the same appointing/hiring authority and was not selected for employment. Veteran’s Preference As defined under Section 71-10-1, U.C.A. 1953 as amended, a veteran is: An individual who has served on active duty in the armed forces for more than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days or was a member of a reserve component who served in a campaign or expedition for which a campaign medal has been authorized and who has been separated or retired under honorable conditions, or An individual who incurred an actual service-related injury or disability, regardless of whether that person completed one hundred eighty (180) days of active duty or not. In order to be eligible for veteran’s preference, an individual must be: An individual who has served on active duty in the armed forces for more than one hundred (180) consecutive days or was a member of a reserve component who served in a campaign or expedition for which a campaign medal has been authorized and who has been separated or retired under honorable conditions; A disabled veteran with any percentage of disability; The spouse or unmarried widow or widower of a veteran; A Purple Heart recipient; or A retired member of the armed forces. In accordance with Section 71-10-2. U.C.A. 1953 as amended, the HR Director or their designee shall add to the evaluation score of a preference-eligible candidate who receives a passing score on an evaluation or review or on any rating or ranking mechanism used in selecting an individual for any career service position with County using the following means: Five (5) percent of the total possible score, if the individual is a veteran; Ten (10) percent of the total possible score, if the individual is a disabled veteran or purple heart recipient; or In the case of a preference-eligible widow or widower, the same percentage the qualifying veteran would have been entitled to. A preference-eligible applicant who applies for a position that does not require an examination, or where examination results are other than a numeric score, shall be given preference in interviewing and hiring for the position. Employment Register Employment registers shall contain the names of top-ranked eligible applicants who have been evaluated by the OHR for an interview. The number of applicants to be interviewed shall be determined for each vacancy by the HR Director or their designee, taking into consideration such factors as the number of applicants, eligibility results, evaluation results, department-specific criteria, distribution of scores, number of vacancies to be filled, and other relevant circumstances. The HR Director or their designee may remove an applicant from an employment register who: Requests to have his/her name removed from the employment register. Declines to an invitation or fails to respond to an invitation for a hiring interview. Declines an offer of employment. For any reasons listed in D.4 of this policy. Employment registers shall be valid for sixty (60) days but may be extended when authorized by the HR Director or their designee up to a length of one (1) year. Departments wishing to make more selections from the employment register than the number of selections allowed by the register must contact the OHR for such authorization prior to making an additional hiring decision. Departments wishing to make more selections from the employment register than the number of selections allowed by the register must contact the OHR for such authorization prior to making an additional hiring decision. Eligibility List If applicable, an eligibility list may be utilized by specific departments as approved by the HR Director or their designee. An eligibility list is a ranked listing containing the names of applicants who have met the minimum qualifications for the position and have completed all related examinations. Ranking is based on composite scores. For examinations with a minimum passing score, an applicant must meet or exceed this score to be included on an eligibility list. An eligibility list may be deemed appropriate by the HR Director or their designee when at least two (2) or more examinations are used. Initial duration of an eligibility list shall be set at twelve (12) months from the final ranking date. An eligibility list may be deemed inactive prior to the expiration of the twelve (12) month duration period when all listed applicants have been placed on an employment register or when deemed appropriate by the HR Director or their designee after considering such factors as the number of applicants, distribution of scores, number of vacancies to be filled, and other relevant circumstances. Placement on an eligibility list does not guarantee placement on a register. Duration of an eligibility list may be extended beyond the initial twelve (12) month duration as deemed appropriate by the HR Director or their designee in six (6) month increments up to a total duration of two (2) years. The HR Director or their designee may remove an applicant from an eligibility list for any reason listed in procedure 3-1000.F.2 or 3-1000.D.4. Final Hiring Interview A hiring selection for a career service vacancy shall be made from among those applicants approved by the HR Director or their designee and placed on a valid employment register. The selecting authority shall demonstrate having conducted a final hiring interview with each listed applicant unless the applicant declines the interview or does not respond within three (3) working days to the interview invitation. The appointing/hiring authority shall notify each applicant interviewed of the results after the selection is made. An applicant must receive a Conditional Offer of Employment (COE) from the OHR on behalf of the hiring authority prior to the applicant submitting to a drug and alcohol screen or a physical examination of any type or to allowing the county access to the applicant’s criminal history records, credit reports, and/or any other information established by law that requires an individual’s written permission to obtain. Inter-Departmental Transfers The HR Director, with approval from or under the direction of the County Commission, may initiate or authorize a non-disciplinary transfer when the transfer is determined to be in the best interest of Utah County. A transfer is accomplished by moving an employee from their current Department to a different Department. The employee may transfer to their current staffing plan position if the position is moved to a different department, or into a newly created or otherwise vacant position in the staffing plan, provided the new position has the same pay step range. The HR Director shall consult with the respective Departments before transfers may be made. The OHR must certify that the transferring employee meets the minimum qualifications for the position to which he/she is being transferred. A Department accepting a transferred employee shall accept accrued Sick leave, Vacation leave, and Personal Preference leave and has the option of accepting accrued Compensatory time approved by the OHR. All or a portion of the employee’s Compensatory time balance may be paid out upon transfer by the Department from which the employee is transferred. Time-Limited Positions: The HR Director may approve the creation and filling of Career Service, exempt positions that do not constitute permanent employment where temporary, emergency, seasonal, project, intermittent, or other special needs of a department justify such action. The funding for all time-limited positions shall be included in each requesting Department’s budget. Employees serving in time-limited positions serve at the discretion of the Department and may be terminated at any time for any reason other than age, race, color, national origin, religion, sex, pregnancy, childbirth, pregnancy-related conditions, disability, genetic information, sexual orientation, gender identity, or any other factor protected by law, except where these are bona fide occupational qualifications. Time-limited positions include Part Time/25 Hour positions, Variable Hour positions, Seasonal and Limited Term positions. Part-Time Positions. Part-time (twenty-five (25) hour) employees shall be treated as hourly wage employees without eligibility for fringe benefits. All such employees may work throughout the year but shall be limited up to working twenty-five (25) hours in any workweek, defined as 12:00 a.m. on Saturday through 11:59 p.m. on Friday. Occasional exceptions to exceed 25 hours may be allowed in unusual circumstances if requested in advance from the Department Head and with prior approval from the HR Director. Variable-Hour Positions. Variable-hour employees shall be treated as hourly-wage employees without eligibility for fringe benefits. Due to the nature of their work, these employees may work an unpredictable number of hours throughout the year and may be seasonal employees. If the number of hours worked in any twelve (12) month measurement period equals or exceeds an average of thirty (30) hours per week, the employee shall be eligible for health insurance benefits in the following twelve (12) month stability period along with other full-time employees, so long as they remain employed. No other fringe benefits will be provided. Seasonal Employees. The Seasonal Employee employment duration is six (6) months or less and they normally work the approximate same season(s) during the year. They are not eligible for any fringe benefits. New-Hire Stability Period. For new hires, the initial twelve (12) month measurement period is defined as the immediate twelve (12) months following the hire date. If deemed eligible for health insurance, coverage will begin on the first of the month following thirty (30) days after completion of the measurement period and continue for twelve (12) months, so long as the employee continues to be employed. Employee Stability Period. The standard measurement period for ongoing Variable Hour employees will run from November 1 through October 31 each year. If deemed eligible for health insurance, coverage will begin the following January 1 and continue through December 31, as long as the employee continues to be employed. Limited-Term Position Employees holding limited-term positions must work an average of thirty (30) hours or more per week for a minimum of six (6) consecutive months, for a period not to exceed three (3) years. The duration of a limited-term position may be contingent upon a special project, a long-term, temporary need, an alternate funding source continuing, or another purpose deemed appropriate by the HR Director, for a period of at least six (6) months and not more than three (3) years. Employees will be paid an hourly wage for all hours worked, and the employee will participate in the County’s deferred compensation plan as other time-limited employees. Because such employees are, by definition, full-time employees under the Affordable Care Act (ACA), health insurance will be offered to new hires. No other fringe benefits will be provided. If a market pay step is defined for the job classification, the hourly rate (not adjusted by the value of reserved benefits) must be within the defined pay step range. Upon hire, limited-term employees will be required to sign a term of employment letter specifying conditions of employment and the project, funding source, or need upon which the position is contingent. If a limited-term position exists for three (3) years, and it is anticipated that the project or funding source will continue indefinitely, the position and employee may be converted to career service, provided the employee was initially hired through a competitive examination process. The converted merit pay rate will be set at the same pay step that a career service employee would have reached within the identical length of employment. If not initially hired through a competitive process, the employee may compete through an open recruitment process for the limited-term position that has been converted to career service status, and, if selected, the employee’s entry pay step will be set in the same manner as any other County new hire. An employee shall acquire career service tenure status at the successful completion of a probationary period which commences upon moving into the career service position. III. REFERENCES County Personnel Management Act, Utah Code § 17-75-502 https://le.utah.gov/xcode/Title17/Chapter75/C17-75-P5_2025110620251206.pdf County Personnel Management Act, Utah Code § 17-75-402 https://le.utah.gov/xcode/Title17/Chapter75/C17-75-S402_2025110620251206.pdf Veterans Preference, Section 71-10-1, U.C.A. 1953 https://le.utah.gov/xcode/Title71/Chapter10/71-10-S1.html?v=C71-10-S1_2016051020160510 Veterans Preference, Section 71-10-2. U.C.A. 1953 https://le.utah.gov/xcode/Title71/Chapter10/71-10-S2.html?v=C71-10-S2_201805082018050


===== Policy 3-3000 Separations =====
Utah County Government Human Resources Policy Date Approved: February 1, 2023 Section # 3 Section Title Employment Policy # 3000 Policy Title Separations 3-30 00: Separations PURPOSE: This policy identifies the situations in which an employee may separate from Utah County employment and the procedures that should be followed . I. POLICY Resignation or separation of employment may occur in a variety of ways. Supervisors and the Human Resources Department have specific procedures to follow in response to a resignation or to initiate a separation. II. PROCEDURES Resignation. An employee may resign from County employment by giving written notice to the department head and the Office of Human Resources. Notices via email are preferred. An employee's resignation will be accepted without prejudice if received ten (10) or more working days prior to its effective date. If inadequate notice (less than 10 working days) of resignation is given, the HR Director may include a record of this fact in the employee's file. An employee may, in writing, request to withdraw or modify a resignation notice prior to its effective date. However, it is at the discretion of the department head of whether to accept the withdrawal or modification request. De Facto Resignation. An employee who is absent from work for three (3) or more consecutive working days without notice or in an unauthorized leave status, shall be deemed to have resigned and shall be informed of the same in writing by the HR Director. Retirement. An employee may retire at any time after meeting retirement qualifications as defined by the applicable Utah Retirement System rules. An employee should give 30 days’ notice of their retirement date. Reduction in Force. A reduction in force may be requested based upon inadequate funding, position funding reallocation, change in workload, insufficient work, cost control, underutilization of position essential function, change in duties, or organizational structure. A reduction in force is non-disciplinary and not eligible for appeal or grievance. Career Service employees shall be notified of the reduction in force after completion of the first six (6) items below: The HR Director is notified of the position elimination proposal. Time-limited employees performing similar job duties in the department must be separated before any Career-Service employee is reduced in force. Grant-funded employees shall continue working in the grant-funded position as long as funds are available unless separated under another provision of county policy. The HR Director identifies the names of all employees filling position(s) proposed for elimination in the department or the division(s)/work group(s) of a department and ranks incumbent employees in each position classification according to composite retention points from highest to lowest. Retention point calculation is unnecessary when there is a single position classification incumbent. In the case of an equal number of composite retention points for two employees, the employee with the older review date for the position to be eliminated shall be ranked higher. Retention points shall be calculated for affected employees in three categories: seniority, ability, and merit. The maximum number of retention points is fifty (50) points for seniority, twenty-five (25) points for ability, and twenty-five (25) for merit, for a total of one hundred (100) retention points. The definitions and method for calculating retention points for seniority, ability, and merit are as follows: Seniority - Seniority is an employee's continuous service with Utah County as a career service employee from their most recent career service hire date. Service time shall not be subtracted from approved leaves. Only complete years of service will be used to compute seniority retention points. Two (2) retention points shall be given for each year of service as a full-time career service employee. Service for part-time career service employees shall be prorated. If a career service employee’s status has changed from or to full-time, ¾ or ½ time in a year, the year shall be computed as a full year based upon their status for the majority of the year. Retention points for seniority shall not exceed fifty (50) points. Ability - Ability is consideration of knowledge, skills, and abilities such as technical expertise or expertise or experience related to job functions remaining after the Reduction in Force; possession of certifications, licenses, degrees, letters of commendation, or other qualifications related to job functions; interpersonal skills, including the ability to positively influence the performance of others; productivity, including quantity and quality of work performed. The Department Head shall provide a list to the HR Director indicating ability retention points for all employees in positions proposed for elimination or reduction in force and the justification for the ability retention points. Retention points for ability shall not exceed twenty-five (25) points. Merit - Merit is evidenced by the average of the three (3) most recent performance appraisals (including 3-month, probation, trial period, and/or annual reviews). Merit retention points are calculated by adding the final score for the employee’s three most recent performance appraisals using the following scale: Exceeds Expectations = 5, Satisfactory or Meets Expectations = 3, Does Not Meet Expectations = 0. The total of the past three appraisals is divided by 3 and the result is multiplied by 5. If the employee has had fewer than three appraisals since the last merit hire date, the score will be based on the average of appraisal scores. Each previous documentation or disciplinary action imposed in the prior three years will subtract points from the merit score according to the following scale: documented counseling = -1 point; written reprimand = -5 points; suspension = -10 points. Retention points for merit shall not exceed twenty-five (25) points. The HR Director identifies affected employees and potential bumping rights. A closed meeting shall be held with the County Commission, the department head, the HR Director, and an attorney with the Civil Division of the Office of the County Attorney. During the closed session: The department head identifies affected employees and potential bumping for elimination; and The HR Director presents the employee lists, identifies employees with the fewest retention points, identifies potential employee bumping rights, and certifies that assigned job classifications are accurate for affected positions; and The discussion will include projected savings and factors that would mitigate or aggravate the reduction in force. The County Commission provides approval for the reduction in force and the position(s) to be eliminated. Human Resources prepares reduction in force notifications for affected employees and provides them to the Department Head. The Department Head, and the HR Director if requested by the Department Head, meet with the affected employee(s), provide the prepared notice, and coordinate all further steps with the Office of Human Resource to facilitate the separation. All Career Service employees reduced in force will be: Permitted to use “Bumping Rights” if applicable. An employee has bumping rights into a position of the same, or of a lower, job classification level providing he/she has performed the essential functions of the position at some previous time within the department and will require little or no training to perform the duties again. The employee having the fewest retention points within a job classification is the employee who may be bumped. If bumping into a lower classified position and the employee’s salary step is above the maximum of the salary range for the lower classified position, the employee’s salary step must be reduced to the maximum of the lower salary range. Bumping rights apply only to the department in which the worker is currently employed. Separated from employment if no bumping rights exist, if the employee does not elect to exercise bumping rights, or when bumped and no further bumping rights exist. Placed on rehire register for a period of six months. To be placed on a rehire register, the individual must complete a rehire application for employment and indicate positions and/or departments of interest. A rehire register will be provided to the hiring department along with the competitive recruitment employment register. A selection may be made from either register. The separated individual will be invited to interview for any open position for which the Office of Human Resource considers them qualified. Rehired employees’ previous years of service will be reinstated. Administrative Separation. An Administrative Separation may be used by a department for a non-disciplinary separation of employment for reasons including, but not limited to, exhaustion of leave including FMLA, loss of required certification of licensure, or inability to perform the essential functions of the position with or without a reasonable accommodation. HR department shall provide the employee with a notice of intent of an Administrative Separation seven (7) calendar days prior to the Administrative Separation. The written notice shall provide the employee with the factual basis of the intent to separate employment and an opportunity to respond in writing or in person prior to the Administrative Separation. The department head may place the employee on paid administrative leave between the date of the notice of intent and the proposed effective date. Dismissal. A career service employee may be dismissed for cause as described in the conduct and discipline policies. A department head with the consultation of the HR Director may dismiss an employee having other than Career Service status, with or without cause, and without the right of appeal. III. REFERENCES Policy 4-8000 Progressive Discipline Policy 4-4000 Employee Standards of Conduct


===== Policy 3-4000 Employee Status, Probation, And Trial Periods =====
Utah County Government Human Resource Policy Date Approved: May 24, 2023 Section # 3 Section Title Employment Policy # 4000 Policy Title Employee Status, Probation, and Trial Periods 3-4000: Employee Status, Probation and Trial Periods PURPOSE : To set forth conditions for Career Service, Career Service Exempt, and Career Service Grant positions, and the process for administration of probation and trial periods. I. POLICY A. Appointed Status (Career Service Exempt) Unless State law defines otherwise, employees serving in appointed positions pursuant to Utah Code § 17-75-502, serve at the discretion of the appointing authority, may be selected outside of a competitive recruitment process, and may be terminated at any time for any reason other than age, race, sex, religion, national origin, disability, genetic information, and or other statutorily protected class except where these are bona fide occupational qualifications. The County legislative body may, as allowed by Utah State Code County Personnel Management Act, authorize County Commissioners, Elected Officials, and Department Heads to affect employee appointments to positions exempt from the Career Service. Such appointments include, but are not limited to, major Department Heads, or others specifically so identified, charged with the responsibility of assisting in the formulation and execution of matters of policy and confidential secretaries. Human Resources Policy 5-0300 specifically defines fringe benefits for Appointed employees. Appointed employees have the option to either participate in the State Retirement System or another qualified County retirement program. Appointed employees may not become Career Service status employees unless they have previously earned career status or competed for placement on a competitive register and are selected for a Career Service position, or occupy a position that is moved from an Appointed to Career Service position by decision of the County Commission, as recommended by the Human Resources (HR) Director. B. Career Service Status An employee who has successfully completed a probationary period in a Career Service position, as evidenced by a satisfactory employee performance appraisal, shall have earned Career Service status. No employee shall receive Career Service status unless a satisfactory employee performance appraisal is filed with the Office of Human Resources. An Appointed employee selected for a Career Service position, after participating in a competitive selection process, shall acquire Career Service status after the successful completion of a probationary period. C. Career Service, Grant Status A Career Service, Grant employee occupying a position that is more than fifty percent (50%) funded by grant funds or another alternate funding source will accrue benefits in the same manner as other Career Service employees, but the employment term of a Career Service, Grant employee is subject to the availability of funds from the grant or other alternate funding source. Such employees shall be terminated without rights of appeal when funding is no longer available. Employees accepting Career Service and Grant positions shall be required to sign a letter specifying conditions of employment. The requirements defined in Section B above relating to the attainment of Career Service status also must be met to achieve Career Service, Grant status. The OHR, consulting with the Budget Manager, will determine which positions are funded by grant monies, including alternate funding sources. D. Appointed Employees Returning to Career Service Status Any Career Service status employee accepting an appointment to a Career Service, Exempt position who is then not retained by the appointing authority, unless discharged for cause as provided for these regulations, may be: Placed on the rehire register for a period of six (6) months. To be placed on a rehire register, the individual must request a rehire application for employment and indicate positions and/or departments of interest. A rehire register will be provided to the hiring department along with the competitive recruitment employment register. A selection may be made from either register. The separated individual will be invited to interview for any open position for which the OHR considers them qualified. Rehired Appointed employee’s previous years of service will be reinstated. E. Probation All new employees hired for Career Service positions, including Career Service, Grant employees, shall serve a probationary period of not less than six (6) months of continuous service in the same position classification. However, this time may be extended by periods of leave without pay or other absence, including attendance at POST academy or other training. For an employee to successfully complete probation, a satisfactory employee performance appraisal must be completed and filed with the OHR. The probationary period shall not be extended beyond the initial six (6) month period except for good cause. A performance appraisal or a request for an extension due to absence must be completed and submitted to the OHR within six (6) months from the employee’s date of hire. When it is determined that an employee’s probationary period should be extended for any reason other than absence, the performance appraisal completed at six (6) months of employment shall identify performance areas for improvement during the specified extension period. The maximum probationary period length is one (1) year. An employee serving probation in a Career Service position shall not be promoted to another Career Service position except through an open competitive process. In such cases, another probationary period will begin upon selection in the new position. The right to utilize the Utah County Career Service Council Grievance and Appeal Procedure is granted only to those Career Service status employees, including Career Service, Grant employees, who have completed a probationary period. One (1) exception to this right is specified in Item six (6) below, under Section C, Trial Period. An employee serving a probationary period may be dismissed at any time by the Hiring or Appointing Authority without Department or Career Service Council hearings or appeals. Consultation with the HR Director or their designee is required before dismissal. F. Trial Period Upon promotion or demotion, Career Service and Career Service, Grant employees will be required to serve a trial period of not less than six (6) months. The length of a trial period may be initially set for more than six (6) months, as authorized by the HR Director. The trial period may be extended by periods of leave without pay or other absence, including attendance at POST academy or other training. For an employee to successfully complete a trial period, a satisfactory employee performance appraisal must be completed and filed with the OHR. A performance appraisal or a request for an extension due to absence must be completed and submitted to OHR within six (6) months from the date the trial period began. When it is determined by the Department Head that an employee’s trial period should be extended for any reason other than absence, the performance appraisal completed within six (6) months into the trial period shall identify performance areas for improvement during the specified extension period. All trial period extensions must be approved by the HR Director. The maximum trial period length is one (1) year. If the employee fails to successfully complete a promotion trial period (as determined by the Department Head and documented by an unsatisfactory performance appraisal), and if a position the employee previously held in the employee’s current department is available, the employee may return to a position at the same pay step range that was formerly held. A Career Service, Grant employee only has the right to return to a Career Service, Grant position. If the employee fails to successfully complete a demotion trial period (as determined by the Department Head and documented by an unsatisfactory performance appraisal), and if a lesser position in the employee’s current department is available that was previously held, the employee may return to this position at the pay step range that was formerly held. If there is no lesser position available, an employee failing a trial period is subject to termination from Utah County Government employment. The action of dismissal or returning to a position at the employee’s former pay step range, and issues leading to these actions, cannot be appealed to the Career Service Council. III. REFERENCES Utah Code § 17-75-502. Career Service -- Exempt positions. https://le.utah.gov/xcode/Title17/Chapter75/C17-75-S502_2026050620260506.pdf


===== Section 4 Employee Relations =====
Policy 4-0100 Non-Discrimination Policy 4-1000 Grievance And Appeal Policy 4-1400 Workplace Harassment Policy 4-1600 Reporting Of Governmental Waste Or Violations Policy 4-2550 Social Media Policy 4-2800 Fitness For Duty Policy 4-4000 Standards Of Conduct Policy 4-4500 Drug And Alcohol-Free Workplace Policy 4-4600 DOT Drug And Alcohol Policy 4-6000 Incompatible Outside Employment Policy 4-7000 Ethics And Conflicts Of Interest Policy 4-7500 Political Activity Policy 4-8000 Progressive Discipline Policy 4-8500 Performance Appraisal


===== Policy 4-0100 Non-Discrimination =====
Utah County Government Human Resources Policy Date Approved: April 28, 2021 Section # 4 Section Title Employee Relations Policy # 0100 Policy Title Non-Discrimination 4-0100: Non-Discrimination PURPOSE : The purpose of this policy is to set forth Utah County’s policy regarding equal employment opportunity and illegal discrimination. I. POLICY It is the policy of Utah County to provide equal employment opportunity by ensuring that all employment actions, and terms and conditions of employment, be based on the ability to perform the duties and responsibilities of a particular position without regard to age, race, color, national origin, religion, sex, pregnancy, childbirth, pregnancy-related conditions, disability, genetic information, sexual orientation, gender identity, or any other factor protected by law. II. PROCEDURE Discrimination, as used in this policy, is a violation of any applicable State or Federal law governing employment discrimination. Utah County is committed to maintaining a work environment that is free of discrimination and harassment based on a person’s age, race, color, national origin, religion, sex, pregnancy, childbirth, pregnancy-related conditions, disability, genetic information, sexual orientation, gender identity, or any other factor protected by law, consistent with applicable laws. All Utah County employees should respect the characteristics, rights, opinions, and beliefs of others. Discrimination against or harassment of any person because of any factor protected by law is strictly prohibited, whether directed at an employee, vendor, or customer. Any such harassment is prohibited by this policy whether or, not, it also violates the equal employment opportunity laws. This policy applies to all employees and officials of Utah County. Examples of conduct prohibited by this policy include but are not limited to: Unfair treatment because of your age, race, color, national origin, religion, sex, pregnancy, childbirth, pregnancy-related conditions, disability, genetic information, sexual orientation, gender identity, or any other factor protected by law. Harassment by managers, coworkers, or others in your workplace, because of your race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy, gender identity, and sexual orientation), national origin, disability, age (age 40 or older), or genetic information. Denial of a reasonable workplace change that you need because of your religious beliefs or disability. Improper questions about or disclosure of your genetic information or medical information. Retaliation because you complained about job discrimination or assisted with a job discrimination proceeding, such as an investigation or lawsuit.


===== Policy 4-1000 Grievance And Appeal =====
Utah County Government Human Resources Policy Date Approved: January 14, 2026 Section # 4 Section Title Employee Relations Policy # 1000 Policy Title Grievance and Appeal Process 4-1000: Grievance and Appeal Process PURPOSE : It is the purpose and intent of this policy to provide a means for the reasonable settlement of certain disputes between an employee and the County. All employees and supervisors should, however, make every possible effort to settle differences without utilizing the procedures contained in this section. I. POLICY Any Career Service tenure employee who has completed a probationary period may file a grievance as defined in and pursuant to this policy and procedures. An eligible grievance may be heard by the Utah County Career Service Council or designated administrative law judge as provided in Utah Code § 17-75-501. The council shall hear appeals not resolved at lower levels in the cases of career service employees suspended, demoted, or dismissed. No prejudicial, discriminatory, or retaliatory action may be taken, at any time, by the County against any person for their participation in or statements made in the investigation or settlement of a grievance. A grievance shall be abandoned if not filed and processed by the employee in accordance with the time limitations as set forth herein. While not all-inclusive, examples of what may not be grieved to the Career Service Council include; transfer within department, performance appraisals, documented counseling, written reprimand, performance improvement plans, position reclassification, administrative separations, reduction in force, or dismissal during a probationary period, or issues leading to that action as a result of a failed trial period. II. PROCEDURES Suspension without pay, Demotion, or Involuntary Termination Grievance Procedure The aggrieved employee who has been suspended without pay, demoted or involuntarily terminated resulting in a reduction of regular pay (not overtime pay) shall within five (5) working days, not including the day of receipt of the disciplinary notice, request in writing an appeal hearing before their department head, with a copy of the written request sent to the HR Director. The employee will be given at least two (2) working days' notice of the hearing date, time, and location. Appeal Hearing: The hearing officer shall be the department head or their respective designee. If desired by the employee, one (1) representative of the employee’s choice may attend this hearing, and the employee shall provide to the HR Director the name of their representative at least one (1) working day prior to the hearing. Attendees of the hearing shall include the employee and their representative, the hearing officer, a management representative, a representative of the Office of Human Resources, and a representative of the County Attorney’s office. The hearing will not follow formal rules of evidence and will be conducted in an informal manner. The hearing will be conducted by the hearing officer. The management representative shall summarize the employee’s disciplinary notice. The employee or their representative may then respond to all specified charges. The hearing officer will render a decision in writing and forward to the employee and the HR Director a copy of the decision. The decision shall include a statement as to the reasons the suspension without pay, demotion, or termination was either upheld, overturned, or modified. Career Service Council Appeal: Any appeal by a Career Service tenure employee who is suspended without pay, demoted, or terminated shall within five (5) working days of receipt of the hearing officer’s decision, appeal to the Career Service Council by filing a written request for Career Service Council review with the Director of Human Resources. The HR Director will forward the request for Career Service Council review to the Career Service Council, the department head, and the Civil Division of the County Attorney Office. Failure on the part of the employee to request a hearing or appeal in writing within defined timeframes at any step in this process will serve as a withdrawal of the employee’s grievance and the case will be closed. Employee Complaint Procedure Steps for Issues Not Grievable, Not Appropriately under the Jurisdiction of an Outside Entity, and Not Covered by a Different Appeal Procedure in these Rules and Regulations. For matters not grievable under these Policies, or for which no other appeal procedure is provided in these Policies, or for matters not under the exclusive jurisdiction of an outside agency, a Career Service tenure employee may submit a written complaint to their department head for consideration. The department head, or their designee, shall promptly respond to the employee's complaint in writing and may determine to uphold, amend, or overturn the matter which was the basis of the employee’s written complaint. A copy of this response shall be forwarded to the HR Director. The decision of the department head or their designee will be final and is not reviewable by the Career Service Council. All complaint responses must be consistent with County policy, procedures, and practices. Additionally, if the complaint is related to employment matters, all complaint responses must be consistent with County Human Resource systems, programs, procedures, and practices as established by County and/or by the Office of Human Resources. III. REFERENCES Policy 4-4000: Employee Standards of Conduct Policy 4-8000: Progressive Discipline


===== Policy 4-1400 Workplace Harassment =====
Utah County Government Human Resources Policy Date Approved: March 11, 2020 Section # 4 Section Title Employee Relations Policy # 1400 Policy Title Workplace Harassment 4-1400: Workplace Harassment PURPOSE : It is the purpose of this Policy to set forth for employees the expectations, responsibilities, and consequences associated with workplace harassment. Utah County considers workplace harassment in all forms to be a serious offense that will not be tolerated. Utah County strives to create and maintain a work environment in which people are treated with dignity, decency, and respect. The environment of the County should be characterized by mutual trust and the absence of intimidation, oppression, and exploitation. I. POLICY Utah County prohibits unlawful discrimination or harassment of any kind. Through enforcement of this policy and by education of employees, Utah County seeks to prevent, correct, and discipline behavior that violates this policy. Under federal and Utah state law and Utah County policy, sexual harassment in the workplace and harassment based on protected classifications such race, color, religion, sex (including gender identity and pregnancy), national origin, age, disability, genetic information, sexual orientation, parental status, or any other factor protected by law is prohibited. For purposes of this policy, harassment is any communication, visual, or physical conduct designed to, or has the effect of, threatening, intimidating or coercing an employee, co-worker, or any person working for or on behalf of Utah County. Utah County will take appropriate and immediate action in response to complaints or knowledge of violations of this policy. II. PROCEDURES Harassment Based on Protected Classifications Harassment based on protected classifications includes, but is not limited to the following: Verbal harassment may include comments that are offensive or unwelcome regarding a person's national origin, race, color, religion, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, age, body, disability, or appearance, including epithets, slurs, and negative stereotyping. Nonverbal harassment which may include (electronic or otherwise) distribution, display, or discussion of any written or graphic material that ridicules, denigrates, insults, belittles, or shows hostility, aversion, or disrespect toward an individual or group because of national origin, race, color, religion, age, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, pregnancy, appearance, disability, sexual identity, marital status or other protected status. Harassment based on protected classifications, by a Utah County employee or official, should result in disciplinary action which may include termination of employment. In addition, employees or officials who willfully report a false claim may also be subject to disciplinary action. Sexual Harassment Sexual harassment is a type of workplace harassment based on sex or gender. It is defined as unwanted sexual attention of a persistent or offensive nature, made by a person who knows or reasonably should know, that such conduct is unwanted. Sexual harassment includes sexually oriented conduct that is severe or sufficiently pervasive to unreasonably interfere with an employee’s job performance or creates an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working environment. It also includes offensive behavior that is not clearly sexual in nature but occurs only because of the victim’s gender. While sexual conduct can encompass a wide range of conduct, some common examples of specifically prohibited conduct include, but are not limited to: Making submissions to or rejections of sexual favors the basis for employment decisions. Making sexual or romantic advances toward an employee, which are unwanted, and especially persisting in such advances despite rejection by the employee. Engaging in sexually suggestive physical contact or touching another employee in a way that is unwelcome. Non-verbal conduct may include displaying sexually suggestive objects or pictures in a work area, making sexually suggestive sounds, leering, whistling, or making obscene gestures. Verbal conduct includes making jokes of a sexual nature, suggestive comments, sexual innuendoes, sexual propositions, or threats. Treating one gender differently than another gender or using “pet” names for one specific gender. A series of incidents even if one or more of the incidents are considered on its own would not be harassing. Can occur on employer premises or elsewhere, even during non-working hours. Can involve males or females being harassed by members of either sex. Although sexual harassment may more typically involve a person in a greater position of authority than the harassed, individuals of lesser or equal authority, and even persons who do not work for Utah County, can be found responsible for engaging in sexual harassment. Violations of the Sexual Harassment Policy should result in disciplinary action which may include termination of employment. In addition, employees who willfully report a false claim may also be subject to disciplinary action. Reporting Claims If employees believe that they have been subjected to any type of workplace harassment they should: Make their feelings directly and immediately known to the harasser, if they feel comfortable doing so. Make a written record of the date, time, and nature of the incident, and the names of any witnesses, and report the incident immediately to any of the following: A Supervisor in the employee chain of command. Human Resource Director Any County Commissioner The County Attorney All incidents of harassment should be reported regardless of their seriousness. There will be no retaliation against an employee who in good faith reports an incident of workplace harassment or against anyone who provides information about violations. Complaints may be submitted by any individual irrespective of whether the complainant was personally subjected to the offending behavior. Supervisor Duties. Supervisors who knowingly allow or tolerate any type of harassment are in violation of this policy and are subject to disciplinary action up to and including termination of employment. Supervisors must deal quickly and fairly with allegations of workplace harassment, even when there has been a formal complaint. Supervisors should make sure that Utah County’s policy is communicated to subordinate employees. In case of a formal complaint, Supervisors should immediately report the matter to the HR Director so that the matter can be investigated. Office of Human Resources Duties - The Office of Human Resources will promptly conduct a fair and impartial review of harassment complaints. All such complaints will be handled with as much confidentiality as possible in order to encourage reporting and to protect the privacy of the parties. Based on the review, one or more of the following actions may occur: If the incident is determined to have been minor in nature and no further investigation is warranted, ensure that Utah County’s Workplace Harassment Policy is explained to the individuals involved for the purpose of avoiding future problems or misunderstandings. If the conduct is deemed more serious in nature, the HR Director and/or the County Attorney (or their designees) will investigate the complaint and determine whether any disciplinary action is warranted. The investigation will normally include conferring with the parties, interviewing witnesses, and reviewing any other evidence. A written report will then be prepared summarizing the incident and the actions taken to correct the situation, if any. Results of the investigation and any disciplinary action imposed shall be communicated to the complainant in a timely manner.


===== Policy 4-1600 Reporting Of Governmental Waste Or Violations =====
Utah County Government Human Resources Policy Date Approved: June 11, 2019 Section # 4 Section Title Employee Relations Policy # 1600 Policy Title Reporting of Governmental Waste or Violations of the Law 4-1600: Reporting of Governmental Waste or Violations of the Law PURPOSE : To safeguard County property, eliminate waste, and protect County employees at the workplace, reporting wrongdoing is the responsibility of each employee. This policy gives direction regarding what should be done whenever a County employee becomes aware of or reasonably suspects the loss of County property through waste, theft or misuse; a substantial and specific danger to public health or safety; the violation of applicable law and procedures; or any other wrongdoing in the County workplace or involving County personnel, resources and assets. Although this policy is not intended to create new rights for County employees, it is intended to encourage and assist employees to report suspected wrongdoing. This Countywide policy does not displace any other Utah County Human Resource Policy and Procedures regarding Sexual Harassment, Discrimination, or Reprisal. I. POLICY County Employee Responsibility to Report Wrongdoing. The reporting of criminal or other wrongful activity in the County workplace is mandatory for all County employees. A County employee who knowingly fails to report such activity may be subject to appropriate disciplinary action, up to and including termination from County employment. A report under this policy may be made either by the person who is directly affected by or is the victim of the complained-of-conduct or by any other County employee who discovers the wrongful conduct in question. Disclosing the observation or suspicion of wrongful conduct to persons or parties outside of the steps in this policy is not considered adequate until a report has been made as set forth in this policy. II. PROCEDURES An initial report by a County employee need not be in writing or in any specific form. However, such a report must be sufficiently formal that the recipient of the report is aware of the serious nature of the wrongful conduct in order to take appropriate corrective action. Any person to whom a report under this policy has been made shall follow the reporting procedures established in this policy. Any employee having knowledge or reasonable suspicion of the theft, wrongful loss, or misuse of County property, funds, or services or that County employees are engaged in conduct that is wrongful, illegal, or violates County policy shall take the following steps as quickly as possible. Report the incident through their chain of command. If the supervisor or another supervisor in the employee’s chain of command is suspected of the wrongdoing or the employee is otherwise uncomfortable with making the report through the chain of command, the employee shall report the incident to any of the following: County Human Resources Director or designee County Attorney or designee County Commission or their designees When an employee’s or another’s personal property, not County property, is stolen or damaged, it shall be reported to local law enforcement and employees are encouraged to report such conduct to their supervisor, or another supervisor in the employee’s chain of command. Any employee desiring to make a report under this policy may do so with the assistance of a personal representative of their choice. Management of Responsibility for Reporting Wrongdoing. County management notified of suspected noncriminal wrongdoing shall report the incident through the employee’s chain of command in the most expeditious manner for appropriate administrative action. After the completion of an investigation deemed appropriate by County management, County management shall notify the following of the actions taken to resolve the complaint: County Commission or their designee Human Resource Director or designee And, as applicable County Attorney or designee County Clerk County Auditor County Risk Manager If the HR Director, County Attorney, or County Commission is notified directly by the employee of the suspected wrongdoing, they shall report the incident to the division director/administrator, department director, or elected official from whose office the alleged misconduct occurred. If the division director/administrator, department director, or elected official is accused of any reported wrongdoing, then the Director of Human Resources, County Attorney, or County Commission may conduct an investigation either internally or through the use of external resources. If the investigation reveals criminal activity, then they shall report any suspected criminal conduct to local law enforcement. Protection of Employees Reporting Wrongdoing – Employees reporting misconduct under this policy will be governed by the provisions of the Utah Protection of Public Employees Act (Utah Code Annotated § 67-21-1 et al.) and this policy. No protection will be granted to any County employee under State law or this policy in the following instances: In the case of a knowingly false or other bad-faith report of wrongdoing. When an employee fails to follow the procedures set out herein. No protection is afforded from legitimate disciplinary or other personnel actions that are unrelated to the report of wrongdoing. Any person making a report under this policy may do so without fear of reprisal, intimidation, coercion, or retaliation. Confidentiality will, to the extent practical under the law and the necessities of disciplinary action, be reasonably protected. Malicious or frivolous complaints may subject the accuser to disciplinary action, up to and including termination from County employment. Inquiries that result in a lack of positive, corroborative evidence will not be considered malicious or frivolous unless the complaint was filed with the intent to inflict professional or personal harm or to obtain some personal benefit. Grievances. A person filing a complaint under this policy may not pursue the same issues through the Utah County Office of Human Resources Policies and Procedures. This policy shall not serve as an appeal procedure to personnel-related grievances. No Vested Right in Outcome. An employee filing a complaint under this policy has no vested right in its outcome, and this policy does not extend any legal claim for damages or any other claim for any equitable relief in any court or administrative venue. III. REFERENCES Utah Protection of Public Employees Act (Utah Code Annotated § 67-21-1 et al.) Utah Code Chapter 67-21


===== Policy 4-2550 Social Media =====
Utah County Government Human Resources Policy Date Approved: June 9, 2021 Section # 4 Section Title Employee Relations Policy # 2550 Policy Title Social Media 4-2550: Social Media PURPOSE : The purpose is to provide guidance to Utah County employees to clarify the appropriate and inappropriate use of social media by employees and to provide guidelines on management, administration, and oversight. The inappropriate use of social media may lead to actual harm and disruption to the County in terms of the public’s perception of the organization as willing to render services to them. I. POLICY Engaging in social media and social networking activities is a form of speech. Nothing in these rules is intended to unlawfully restrict an employee’s right to discuss as a private citizen, matters of public concern, nor engage in concerted activity with co-workers. Employees have an affirmative obligation to avoid being perceived as a spokesperson for Utah County unless officially designated by their department head at the department level, or the commission at the County level. This policy provides guidance of a precautionary nature as well as restrictions and prohibitions on the use of social media by County personnel. II. PROCEDURE Establishment of County Social media sites Utah County and County Department social media sites or pages shall be approved by and administered by the appropriate department head or elected official and as provided by Utah County policies. Utah County's social media content shall adhere to applicable laws, regulations, and policies, including all information technology, records management, and electronic equipment usage policies of Utah County. Use of County social media sites The use of any device by County personnel to create or run social media sites purporting to represent Utah County is prohibited without authorization. Employees working on Utah County-sponsored social media shall conduct themselves at all times as representatives of the County and shall adhere to all County standards of conduct and observe conventionally accepted protocols and proper decorum, including the following: Shall identify themselves as an employee of the County. Shall not post, transmit, or otherwise disseminate confidential information, including photographs or videos, related to County training, responses, activities, or work-related assignments without express written permission of the employee’s department head. Shall never post photos of County employees or patients treated by the Utah County Health Department without the express written consent of the Health Department Director. Shall not conduct political activities or private business. Shall not use personally owned devices to manage the County’s social media activities or in the course of official duties. Shall observe and abide by all copyright, trademark, and service mark restrictions in posting materials to electronic media. Personal Use, Precautions, and Prohibitions. Utah County employees shall adhere to the following when using any social media. An employee who participates in blogs and social networking sites for personal purposes may not: claim to represent the position of Utah County. post the seal, trademark, or logo of Utah County. misrepresent themselves or their position in the County. post protected or confidential information, including copyrighted information, confidential information received from agency customers, or agency-issued documents without permission from the agency head; or unlawfully discriminate against, harass, or otherwise threaten a Utah County employee or a person doing business with Utah County. Employees shall not post, transmit, or otherwise disseminate any information to which they have access as a result of their employment without the written permission of their Department Head. Utah County employees should be aware that they may be subject to civil litigation for publishing or posting false information that harms the reputation of another person, group, or organization, otherwise known as defamation, including: publishing or posting private facts and personal information about someone without their permission that has not been revealed previously to the public is not of legitimate public concern and would be offensive to a reasonable person. using someone else’s name, likeness, or other personal attributes without that person’s permission for an exploitative purpose; or publishing the creative work of another, trademarks, or certain confidential business information without the owner's permission. Utah County employees shall expect that any information created, transmitted downloaded, exchanged, or discussed in a public online forum may be accessed by the County at any time without prior notice. Violations Reporting violations. Any employee becoming aware of or having knowledge of a posting or of any website or webpage in violation of the provision of this policy shall notify his or her supervisor immediately for follow-up action. Violation of this social media policy may result in disciplinary action up to and including termination in accordance with Utah County’s disciplinary action policy.


===== Policy 4-2800 Fitness For Duty =====
Utah County Government Human Resources Policy Date Approved: June 11, 2019 Section # 4 Section Title Employee Relations Policy # 2800 Policy Title Fitness for Duty 4-2800: Fitness for Duty PURPOSE : All employees are required to be free from any physical, emotional, or mental condition which might adversely affect the exercise of employee work responsibilities. The purpose of this policy is to ensure that all employees of Utah County remain fit for duty and able to perform necessary job functions. I. POLICY Utah County may require current employees to whom a conditional offer of employment has been extended to undergo medical examinations whenever management determines that these are necessary for the safe operation of the organization or job-related as consistent with business necessity, as allowed by federal and state law. Successful applicants for employment may be required, as a condition of employment, to take a medical or mental examination to establish their fitness to perform the jobs for which they have applied without endangering the health and safety of themselves or others. If management determines that an examination is appropriate to a particular position, all applicants for the job to whom a conditional offer of employment has been made should be examined. Employees may be required to have a medical or mental examination on other occasions when the examination is job-related and consistent with business necessity. II. PROCEDURES Employee Responsibilities It shall be the responsibility of each employee of the County to maintain a good physical condition, sufficient to safely and properly perform essential duties of their position. Each employee of the County shall perform his/her respective duties without physical, emotional, and/or mental constraints. During working hours, all employees are required to be alert, attentive, and capable of performing assigned responsibilities. Any employee who feels unable to perform his/her duties shall promptly notify a supervisor. If an employee believes that another employee is unable to perform his/her duties, such observations and/or beliefs shall be promptly reported to a supervisor. Supervisor Responsibilities A supervisor observing an employee or receiving a report of an employee who is perceived to be unable to safely perform his/her duties due to a physical or mental condition shall take prompt and appropriate action in an effort to resolve the situation. Whenever feasible, the supervisor should attempt to ascertain the reason or source of the problem, and in all cases, a preliminary evaluation should be made in an effort to determine the level of inability of the employee to perform his/her duties. In the event the employee appears to need immediate medical or psychiatric treatment, all reasonable efforts should be made to provide such care. In conjunction with the direct supervisor or another of the employee’s supervisors in the chain of command, a determination should be made whether the employee should be temporarily relieved from his/her duties. Any supervisor who is made aware that an employee may have a physical or mental disability affecting the employee's ability to perform his/her duties shall investigate the allegation. In the case of public safety employees, the Sheriff or a designee shall ensure that any allegation that a deputy has a physical or mental disability affecting the employee’s ability to perform his/her duties is reported to Utah Peace Officer Standards and Training (POST) within 90 days if the allegations are found to be true (UAC R728-409-18). This applies even in those instances where a deputy resigns or is terminated (Utah Code 53-6-211). The Department Head shall be promptly notified in the event that any employee is relieved from duty. Fitness for Duty Evaluations Fitness for duty medical or mental evaluations may be performed under any of the following circumstances: Return to work from injury or illness. When a supervisor determines that an employee's physical, emotional, or mental condition is a direct threat to the health or safety of the employee or others and prevents the employee from performing his/her job duties and essential functions. In conjunction with corrective action, performance or conduct issues, or discipline. When it is a bona fide occupational qualification for selection, retention, or promotion. Noncompliance with a request for a fitness-for-duty evaluation shall be considered insubordination and may be a cause for disciplinary action, up to and including termination. Cost of Required Examinations Required medical or mental examinations will be paid for by the County and will be performed by a physician or licensed medical mental facility designated or approved by Utah County Human Resources. Medical or mental examinations paid for by the County are the property of the County, and the examination records will be treated as confidential and kept in separate medical files. However, records of specific examinations, if required by law or regulation, will be made available to the employee, persons designated and authorized by the employee, public agencies, relevant insurance companies, or the employee's doctor. E. Appeals A career service tenured employee who has been recommended for demotion or termination resulting from fitness for duty exam or noncompliance with a request for a fitness for duty examination may appeal as outlined in Policy 4-1300 of the Utah County Human Resources Policy and Procedure. F. Confidentiality Under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act ("HIPPA"), any document containing medical information about an employee is considered a medical record and is regarded as confidential to the extent permitted by federal and state law. This information may be shared only on a need-to-know basis. Employees may obtain a copy of their medical or mental examinations upon written request. III. REFERENCES Utah Peace Officer Standards and Training UAC R728-409-18 Utah Code 53-6-211 Policy 4-1000 Grievance and Appeal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act ("HIPPA")


===== Policy 4-4000 Standards Of Conduct =====
Utah County Government Human Resources Policy Date Approved: November 22, 2022 Section # 4 Section Title Employee Relations Policy # 4000 Policy Title Standards of Conduct 4-4000: Standards of Conduct PURPOSE : To establish Standards of Conduct for the personnel of Utah County Government. All personnel are expected to comply with these standards and with specific policies established by their department. I. POLICY Compliance with the Employee Standards of Conduct policy is the responsibility of all personnel regardless of status. For the purposes of this policy “personnel” is defined as including employees, interns, and volunteers. All county personnel shall: Apply themselves to their assigned duties during the full schedule for which they are being compensated; Meet standards established by their individual department head and report conditions or circumstances that would prevent them from performing their job effectively or completing their assigned tasks. Personnel should notify their supervisor immediately of unclear instructions, expectations, or policies; Make prudent and frugal use of County funds, equipment, facilities, and supplies; Comply with County and departmental policies, rules, ordinances, and regulations; Be respectful, courteous, and civil with the public and co-workers; Complete regular training on these and related policies as administered by the Department of Human Resources, for all county personnel regardless of status. II. PROCEDURES Discipline – Personnel may be disciplined for the following conduct: Actions that violate Utah County and/or their department rules, policies, procedures, or the professional code of conduct or performance standards of an individual’s profession; or when such conduct adversely affects the efficiency, harmony, reputation, or good order of Utah County; or when the conduct could reasonably cause the public to lose confidence in Utah County Government; Conduct that violates federal or state statutes, rules, or procedures; Inefficiency, incompetence, failure to maintain skills or adequate performance levels, or failure to advance the good of the public interest. Supervisor Response – Supervisors (up to and including the department head) are responsible for taking immediate action upon learning of employee misconduct or performance issues. In cases of serious misconduct, the Office of Human Resources must be consulted for direction and/or investigation. Examples of serious misconduct can be found in section II.D of this policy and may include off-duty conduct and any conduct resulting in a criminal charge. Investigations – Investigations into violations of the county Standards of Conduct may be initiated by the county Human Resource director following an incident or any report of an incident. Serious Conduct Offenses – Although the following list is not comprehensive, personnel found to have committed any of the following serious conduct offenses are subject to discipline, which may include skipping over the normal progressive disciplinary steps, up to and including termination. Examples of serious conduct or rule violations include, but are not limited to: Absence from work in an unauthorized leave status for one (1) or more working days. An employee absent from work for three (3) or more consecutive working days in an unauthorized leave status will be deemed to have resigned; Obtaining, viewing, or releasing confidential information without authorization and a legitimate business need; A positive drug or alcohol test that violates the Utah County Drug and Alcohol-Free Workplace Policy 4-5000, being impaired or under the influence of any intoxicating substances, drugs or alcohol while on duty; Perpetrating or threatening violence in the workplace, such as assaulting an employee or other person verbally or physically, threats of physical violence, or damage of property. Fighting, arguing, or other disruptive and unprofessional conduct to personnel, guests, or the public on or off County property; Using abusive, vulgar, profane, threatening, demeaning, or belittling language toward, around, or about any employee or other person; Illegal possession of a weapon; Openly making or publishing false, malicious statements concerning Utah County or any of its personnel; Misrepresenting facts to his/her supervisor; Incompetence, inefficiency, or failure to perform expected job duties at an acceptable level; Unacceptable level of attendance as determined by the supervising department; Insubordination – refusal to carry out work instructions. (Employees may refuse to carry out a supervisor’s order only when there is an immediate and bona fide threat to an employee’s health or safety, or when following the order would be in violation of the law); Theft; Misuse of County facilities, property, or funds, including willful destruction of property; Gross misconduct; Violation of law (e.g., felony charges or conviction); or conviction of any crime or charges relevant to the employee’s position; Falsification, fraud, or omission of pertinent information when applying for a position; or falsification, fraud, or omission of pertinent information in the performance of assigned duties and/or provided to his/her supervisor; falsification of time records or any County record; Any willful act which threatens the health, safety, or well-being of another person, self, or property; Any act, whether occurring on or off duty, which is of sufficient magnitude to impact the ability of the County to conduct its business, cause disruption of work, or cause discredit to the organization; Possession of fireworks, explosives, or any other dangerous materials on County property without proper authorization by the employee’s department head; Acts of discrimination or harassment based on any category protected by law; Acts of immoral or indecent conduct adverse to the County’s rightful interest; Failure to maintain licensure, certification, or training required by an employee’s position; Failure by supervisor or other to report or take appropriate action after having knowledge of a serious behavior or performance problem. Supervisor Conduct – In addition to the standards of conduct for all personnel, all supervisory positions shall be prohibited from the following conduct: Disclosing private information about personnel he or she supervises, including private medical, financial, or other information related to the employee’s personal life except as required by law or County policy; Engaging in, while failing to report to the immediate supervisor or the Director of Human Resources, a dating, romantic, or sexual relationship with an employee he or she supervises or manages whether directly or indirectly; Evaluating or attempting to influence any action involving a relative, romantic partner, or sexual partner for purposes of pay, benefits, promotions, discipline, performance appraisals, work assignments, working conditions, training opportunities or any other condition of employment. III. REFERENCES Administrative Oversight by County Commission https://le.utah.gov/xcode/Title17/Chapter66/C17-66-S504_2025110620251206.pdf Policy 4-8000: Progressive Discipline Policy 4-1400: Workplace Harassment Policy 4-0100: Non-Discrimination Policy 4-7500: Political Activities


===== Policy 4-4500 Drug And Alcohol-Free Workplace =====
Utah County Government Human Resources Policy Date Approved: January 14, 2026 Section # 4 Section Title Employee Relations Policy # 4500 Policy Title Drug and Alcohol-Free Workplace 4-4500: Drug and Alcohol-Free Workplace PURPOSE : To inform Utah County employees and volunteers of the expectations, responsibilities, and consequences associated with abuse or improper use of drugs and/or alcohol in the workplace and of the testing procedures . Utah County believes that a drug-free workplace promotes a healthy, productive, and safe environment for its employees and the public. I. POLICY All employees and volunteers are prohibited from using or possessing drugs or alcohol in the workplace as specified by this policy, and are prohibited from reporting to work or being subject to work (specifically while on-call or on break) with prohibited drugs active in their systems or while under the influence of alcohol. Utah County also discourages the detrimental or illegal use of alcohol and/or drugs by its employees when off duty. It is a condition of employment and continued employment that all employees, volunteers, prospective employees, and prospective volunteers comply with the provisions of this policy and all other relevant State and Federal Statutes. While the County will be supportive of those who seek help voluntarily, the County will be equally firm in identifying and disciplining those who violate this policy and/or do not seek rehabilitative assistance. This policy is intended to conform to the requirements set forth in the Local Governmental Entity Drug-Free Workplace Policies Act, Utah Code Annotated, Title 34, Chapter 41, and all other relevant State and Federal statutes. The provisions of any applicable law, statute, regulation, or ordinance shall prevail in the event of any conflict with the provisions of this policy. In compliance with Federal Requirements, Utah County may conduct drug and alcohol tests in accordance with the Federal Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1998 or other federally required drug policies. Utah County maintains the legal right to require any employee, prospective employee, volunteer, or prospective volunteer to take a drug and/or alcohol test under pre-employment, reasonable suspicion, deadly force incident, post-accident, random, and/or last chance agreement. II. DEFINITIONS Alcohol : The intoxicating agent in beverage alcohol, ethyl alcohol, or other low molecular weight alcohols, including methyl and isopropyl alcohol. Alcohol Testing : Testing for the presence of the intoxicating agent in beverage alcohol, ethyl alcohol, or other low molecular weight alcohols, including methyl and isopropyl alcohol. Blanket or Unit Test : Drug and/or alcohol tests conducted during work time where all employees within a chosen category are tested at the same time. Controlled Substance: (herein referred to as “Drug”): Any controlled substance including those assigned by 21 U.S.C. 802 and all substances listed on Schedules I through V, as they may be revised from time to time (21 CFR 1308), or any substance recognized as a drug by other drug compendia, including Title 58, Chapter 37, Utah Controlled Substances Act, or supplement to any of those compendia. Controlled substances may include, but are not limited to: Amphetamines/Methamphetamine Barbiturates Benzodiazepines Cannabinoids Cocaine Methadone Methaqualone Opioids Phencyclidine (PCP) Propoxyphene Psilocybin Drug Testing : The scientific analysis of a sample for the presence of drugs or their metabolites. Employee : Any person in the service of Utah County receiving compensation; this definition also includes officers and elected officials. Medical Review Officer (MRO) : A licensed physician with knowledge of drug abuse disorders who is employed or contracted to conduct reviews of drug test results. Positive Alcohol Test : Test levels on either the initial screening test and/or the confirmation test showing an alcohol concentration reading of 0.02 for any position age 21 or older or greater than 0.00 for younger than 21, except where designated otherwise by federal regulations. Positive Drug Test : Test levels on either the screening test and/or the confirmation test as reported by the workplace drug screening provider. Prospective Employee : Any person who has made a written or oral application to become an employee of Utah County. Random Testing : The unannounced drug and/or alcohol testing of employees or volunteers. Reasonable Suspicion : An articulated belief based on specific, contemporaneous, and reasonable observations concerning the appearance, behavior, speech, or body odors of the employee or volunteer that said employee or volunteer may have the presence of drugs and/or alcohol in his/her system or has used or is under the influence or impairment of controlled substances or alcohol on County paid time. Rehabilitation Testing : Unannounced but preselected drug and/or alcohol testing done as part of a program of counseling, education, and treatment of an employee or volunteer in conjunction with this policy. Sample : Urine, blood, breath, saliva, perspiration, or hair sample gathered for the purpose of drug or alcohol testing. Use : To consume, sell, purchase, manufacture, distribute, be under the influence of, report to work under the influence of, or be in the possession of drugs and/or alcohol. The term “use” shall also include the presence of drugs and/or alcohol in the body of the individual being tested, including the presence as a metabolite. This also includes the use of a prescription drug without a current valid prescription from a licensed physician or using a prescription drug beyond the prescribed therapeutic dosage. Volunteer : Any person who donates services to Utah County without pay or other compensation except for expenses actually and reasonably incurred that may be reimbursed. III. PROCEDURES Alcohol Rules An employee will be subject to disciplinary action for consumption of an alcoholic beverage while on duty or when the consumption of alcoholic beverages, at a time proximate to his or her work time, or creates a risk of harm to self, others, or County or private property. If an employee is required to drive as part of his/her assigned duties and has his/her driver’s license suspended or revoked, temporarily or permanently, due to an alcohol-related offense, the employee must notify his/her supervisor of these circumstances when next reporting to duty. Failure to do so shall be cause for disciplinary action leading up to and including termination. An employee or volunteer who receives a felony conviction because of alcohol whether on or off County premises or whether on or not on duty shall be cause for disciplinary action leading up to and including termination. It is a violation of County policy to report to work or be in an on-call status while under the influence of alcohol or having an alcohol concentration of 0.02 or higher for employees and volunteers who are 21 or older and 0.00 for anyone under age 21. Employees violating this policy must be immediately placed on administrative leave and are subject to discipline or termination. Drug Rules Utah County has a zero-tolerance policy regarding controlled substances. Except as provided in Title 26, Chapter 61a, Utah Medical Cannabis Act, the unlawful use, manufacture, distribution, dispensation, or possession of a controlled substance by an employee in the workplace or during work hours, including on-call time, is prohibited. Employees in violation of this policy are subject to discipline. An exception to disciplinary action for the illegal possession of a controlled substance while on duty is when the handling of the substance is incidental to the employee’s assigned duties. Sworn law enforcement who are working in an undercover capacity and are on duty, working in the legitimate scope of their assignment, are exempt from this paragraph if following established undercover guidelines set forth in the Utah County Sheriff’s Office Policy and Procedure Manual and in accordance with Utah Code Annotated, Title 58, Chapter 37, Section (11)(b). The use of any drug or substance that negatively affects performance or the ability of an employee to work in a safe manner may be cause for discipline where the employee knew or reasonably should have known that the drug would cause impairment or adversely diminish his/her capabilities to perform the job. Whenever an employee is prescribed a drug by a licensed health care provider or uses over-the-counter medication that may negatively affect his/her performance or ability to perform in a safe manner, the employee shall notify his/her supervisor who may initiate the ADA interactive process with Human Resources depending on the duration of the medication. An employee who fails to notify his/her supervisor may be subject to disciplinary action. The illegal possession or use of controlled substances whether on or off County premises and whether on duty or not may be cause for disciplinary action leading up to and including termination, where such conduct can be shown to have a direct and material adverse effect on the County’s interests, including public image. If an employee is required to drive as part of his/her assigned duties and has his/her driver’s license suspended or revoked temporarily or permanently, due to a drug related offense, the employee must notify his/her supervisor of these circumstances when next reporting to duty. Failure to do so shall be cause for disciplinary action leading up to and including termination. An employee or volunteer who has received a felony conviction for possession or being under the influence of controlled substances whether on or off County premises and whether on or not on duty shall be cause for disciplinary action leading up to and including termination. The conviction of an employee for the sale or possession with intent to illegally sell controlled substances or abusable prescription drugs whether on or off County premises and whether on or not on duty is cause for immediate termination. Medical Cannabis A medical cannabis card does not provide job protection for POST certified employees. A positive test result may result in disciplinary action up to and including termination. Under federal law 18 USC 922(g), holders of medical cannabis cards are prohibited from possessing firearms and therefore prohibited from holding POST certification. This prohibition continues for one year after the expiration, relinquishment, surrender, or cancelation of the card. Utah County complies with Utah Code 34A-5-115 Nondiscrimination for medical cannabis use while employed by the government. Medical prescription cannabis use is not allowed within 12 hours prior to shift start for any position that carries a hazardous responsibility such as all emergency personnel, firefighters, and employees who operate heavy machinery or power tools. Alcohol and Drug Testing Circumstances Pre-Employment: Once Utah County has made a conditional offer of employment or volunteer selection, the offer may be contingent upon the prospective employee/volunteer passing a drug test. The Utah County Office of Human Resources will identify specific job classifications and/or duty location assignments that require an applicant selected as a new hire or prospective volunteer to take and pass a drug screening. A positive result from the drug screening may result in the applicant not being hired or the prospective volunteer not being accepted. Reasonable Suspicion : An employee or volunteer must submit to an alcohol test and/or drug test when a trained supervisor, County officer, and/or elected official has reasonable suspicion to believe that the employee or volunteer has violated the prohibitions concerning alcohol and/or drug use. Reasonable suspicion must be based on specific, contemporaneous, and reasonable observations concerning the appearance, behavior, speech, or body odors of the employee or volunteer. Supervisors are responsible for documenting, approaching, and discussing their reasonable suspicion with their employee or volunteer and coordinating with Utah County Human Resources in conducting testing. The supervisor must complete the Utah County Reasonable Suspicion Checklist and immediately submit the completed form to their appropriate department head and Office of Human Resources. The department head and representative(s) from Human Resources will review the form with the supervisor, as necessary, and if reasonable suspicion indicators exist, start the testing process. Once the testing process has started, the employee or volunteer must be removed from their assigned duties. In the case where an employee or volunteer must be tested, the individual will be transported to the drug/alcohol testing site for screening. Once the test sample has been collected, Utah County will offer to make arrangements to have the individual transported home. The individual will remain off work until an official result has been received by Utah County Human Resources. Deadly Force Inciden t: Any employee or volunteer involved in a shooting or death may be requested or administratively compelled to undergo drug and/or alcohol testing. Post-Accident : Utah County conducts drug and alcohol testing upon an employee or volunteer involved in a serious on-the-job vehicle accident. A serious accident is defined as any accident resulting in; a human fatality, a citation and bodily injury with immediate medical treatment away from the scene; and/or a citation and disabling damage to any vehicle requiring tow away. Utah County may require testing after any accident when there is reasonable suspicion. An employee or volunteer who is incapacitated to the point that he/she cannot provide a sample at the time of the incident shall later provide the necessary authorization for releasing hospital or medical reports that would indicate whether the individual was under the influence of drugs and/or alcohol. Additionally, testing results conducted at the scene of the accident and in accordance with law enforcement procedures, shall also be considered valid for purposes of this policy. Utah County may also conduct drug and/or alcohol testing following an industrial accident that is severe according to OSHA’s definition. Random : Utah County may, at its discretion, randomly test employees and/or volunteers, conducted on a random, unannounced basis just before, during, or just after performance of work functions or work time. Last Chance Agreement : An employee who has tested positive for drug and/or alcohol use, and with approval from their department head, and Human Resources, and has met the criteria for a Last Chance agreement, and has entered into said agreement with Utah County Human Resources, will be subjected to random drug and/or alcohol testing for a period of 1 year. Medical Review Officer (MRO) Review If a drug screen is positive for a legal and prescribed controlled substance, the employee, volunteer, applicant, or prospective volunteer must provide within 24 hours of request to the MRO, bona fide verification of a valid current prescription for the drug identified in the drug screen and it must be in the individual’s name. The MRO will determine the drug screen results. If the drug is one that is likely to impair the ability to perform job duties or if acceptable prescription verification is not provided, an applicant will not be hired, or a volunteer will not be accepted. If a drug screen is positive for marijuana and the employee, volunteer, applicant, or prospective volunteer has a medical marijuana prescription, the individual must provide Human Resources, within 24 hours of notification, a bona fide verification of a valid current prescription for medical marijuana in the individual’s name. Refusal to Test The refusal to submit to a drug and/or alcohol test or to provide the necessary authorization for releasing hospital or medical reports that would indicate whether the employee or volunteer was under the influence of drugs and/or alcohol shall be considered the same as a positive test result for a controlled substance. An employee determined to have tampered with, adulterated, or substituted his/her sample will also be considered the same as a positive test result for a controlled substance. The following, included but not limited to, are all considered refusals to test: Failure to appear for any test within  15 minutes of the designated time. Failure to remain at the testing site until the testing process is complete. Failure to provide a urine specimen for drug or a saliva or breath specimen for alcohol. Failure to provide enough urine for drug testing or an adequate amount of saliva or breath for alcohol testing without a medical explanation. Failure to permit observation or monitoring in the case of a directly observed or monitored drug test collection. Failure to follow the observer’s direction to raise or lower clothing to note that the individual being tested does not have a prosthetic or other device that could be used to interfere with the collection process. Using, possessing, or wearing a prosthetic or other device for the intent to interfere with the collection process. Admission to the collector or medical review officer that he/she adulterated or substituted the specimen. Failing or declining to take a second drug test when directed by a collector. Failure to undergo a medical examination or evaluation as part of the verification process for drug testing or as directed by the designated employer representative, per “shy bladder” procedures. (Shy bladder is a condition characterized by the inability to urinate in the presence of others.) Failure to cooperate with any part of the testing process.  Testing/Paid Administrative Leave and Costs Testing time will be deemed work time for the purpose of compensation for current employees. See Utah Code 34-41-103, 104 for more information. Utah County will pay all costs of the initial testing and verification process. When an employee is asked to take a test (reasonable suspicion or random) and the employee is taken off work while the test results are pending, the employee will be placed on paid administrative leave. Positive Results A positive alcohol test result is when an employee or volunteer, age 21 or older has a Blood Alcohol Concentration of 0.02 or greater, greater than 0.00 for anyone under the age of 21. A positive drug result is when an employee or volunteer’s specimen sample indicates the presence of drugs in the system that exceeds the confirmation test level for a positive result, at or above either the Screen cutoff or Confirmed cutoff level. An employee who has tested positive for alcohol and/or drug use is subjected to employee discipline leading up to and including termination. The employee will be placed on or continued paid administrative leave pending the outcome of a predetermination meeting. See the Progressive Discipline Policy. A volunteer having a positive test result will be required to immediately cease volunteer service with and for Utah County and will not be cleared to volunteer with Utah County for a minimum of two (2) years from the testing date. Disciplinary Procedures for Employees For any employee who tests positive for drugs and/or alcohol, the recommended discipline is immediate termination of employment after a predetermination meeting. In this case, the administrative leave will cease, and the employee will be officially terminated from employment. In some limited circumstances, and at the discretion of the Human Resource Director, in coordination with the Department Head, if an employee meets the following criteria, the employee may be entered into a Last Chance Agreement with the County. The employee shows genuine awareness and concern for their behavior, shows a clear understanding of the consequences for their behavior, and shows an unwavering desire to change said behavior towards the use of drugs and/or alcohol. The employee has already put in place steps to modify their behavior concerning the use of drugs and/or alcohol and has sought the support of medical professionals, family, friends, etc. The employee agrees to undergo treatment and remain sober, allowing for rehabilitation. During the rehabilitation process, the employee may be placed on unpaid leave. The employee agrees to bear all financial responsibility for rehabilitation and to complete a credible rehabilitation program. The employee must submit to Human Resource the name and contact information of the rehabilitation program. After completion, the employee will submit legal documentation of the completion of the program to Human Resources. Upon completion of the program, the employee agrees to be subjected to random drug and/or alcohol testing for a period of 1 year. If at any time during the rehabilitation process, the employee chooses not to continue rehabilitation, violates any Utah County policy, slips back into relapse, or at any time becomes a threat to any Utah County employee, volunteer, property, or official, Utah County will immediately cease the Last Chance Agreement, and will terminate the employee.


===== Policy 4-4600 DOT Drug And Alcohol =====
Utah County Government Human Resources Policy Date Approved: January 14, 2026 Section # 4 Section Title Employee Relations Policy # 4600 Policy Title DOT Drug and Alcohol 4-4600: DOT Drug and Alcohol Policy PURPOSE : To inform Utah County employees who fall under state and federal Department of Transportation regulations, the expectations, responsibilities, and consequences associated with abuse or improper use of drugs and/or alcohol in the workplace and of the testing procedures. Utah County believes that a drug-free workplace promotes a healthy, productive, and safe environment for its employees and the public. Utah County is committed to complying with the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration regulations. Employees who are subject to this policy are also subject to Policy 4-4500. I. POLICY Under the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) regulations, any Utah County employee who has met the qualifications and holds a Utah State CDL and who is hired as, or whose job requires them to hold and to be a CDL Driver for Utah County as part of their job description must comply with the regulations set forth in 49 CFR Parts 382 and 383. This includes employees who hold a CDL Class A, B, C, or permit CLP. For this policy, these individuals will be referred to as Driver or Drivers. This policy and 4-4500 applies to all Drivers. If a conflict arises between these two policies, this policy shall apply and supersede 4-4500. The Utah County Sheriff’s Office, including emergency management and fire and rescue are exempt by Utah law from FMCSA regulations. All drivers are prohibited from using or possessing drugs or alcohol in the workplace as specified by this policy and are prohibited from reporting to work or being subject to work (specifically while on-call or on break) with prohibited drugs active in their systems or while under the influence of alcohol. Utah County also discourages the detrimental or illegal use of alcohol and/or drugs by its drivers when off duty. It is a condition of employment and continued employment that all drivers and prospective drivers comply with the provisions of this policy and all other relevant State and Federal Statutes. While the County will be supportive of those who seek help voluntarily, the County will be equally firm in identifying and disciplining those who violate this policy. This policy is intended to conform to the requirements set forth in the Local Governmental Entity Drug-Free Workplace Policies Act, Utah Code Annotated, Title 34, Chapter 41, and all other relevant State and Federal statutes including Parts 382 and 383 of the FMCSA. The provisions of any applicable law, statute, regulation, or ordinance shall prevail in the event of any conflict with the provisions of this policy. In compliance with Federal Requirements, Utah County may conduct drug and alcohol tests in accordance with the Federal Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1998 or other federally required drug policies found in Part 382 of the FMSCA. Utah County maintains the legal right to require any driver or prospective driver to take a drug and/or alcohol test under pre-employment, reasonable suspicion, post-accident, random, return-to-duty, and follow-up. II. DEFINITIONS Alcohol : The intoxicating agent in beverage alcohol, ethyl alcohol, or other low molecular weight alcohols, including methyl and isopropyl alcohol. Alcohol Testing : Testing for the presence of the intoxicating agent in beverage alcohol, ethyl alcohol, or other low molecular weight alcohols, including methyl and isopropyl alcohol. Blanket or Unit Test : Drug and/or alcohol tests conducted during work time where all employees within a chosen category are tested at the same time. Controlled Substance : (also referred to as “drug” or ”drugs”): Any controlled substance including those assigned by 21 U.S.C. 802 and all substances listed on Schedule I as they may be revised from time to time (21 CFR 1308), or any substance recognized as a drug by other drug compendia, including Title 58, Chapter 37, Utah Controlled Substances Act, or supplement to any of those compendia. Controlled substances may include, but are not limited to: Amphetamines/Methamphetamine Cannabinoids Cocaine Opioids-opium and codeine derivatives Phencyclidine - PCP Drug Testing: The scientific analysis of a sample for the presence of drugs or their metabolites. Employee/Driver : Any person in the service of Utah County receiving compensation and holding a CDL license whose job requires them to have a Class A, B, C or CL Permit. Medical Review Officer (MRO) : A licensed physician with knowledge of drug abuse disorders who is employed or contracted to conduct reviews of drug test results. Positive Alcohol Test : Test levels on either the initial screening test and/or the confirmation test showing an alcohol concentration reading of 0.02 for any position age 21 or older or greater than 0.00 for younger than 21, except where designated otherwise by federal regulations. Positive Drug Test : Test levels on either the screening test and/or the confirmation test as reported by the workplace drug screening provider. Prospective Employee : Any person who has made a written or oral application to become an employee of Utah County. Random Testing : The unannounced drug and/or alcohol testing of employees according to the FMCSA. Reasonable Suspicion : An articulated belief based on specific, contemporaneous, and reasonable observations concerning the appearance, behavior, speech, and/or body odors of the employee that said employee may have the presence of drugs and/or alcohol in his/her system or has used or is under the influence or impairment of controlled substances or alcohol on County paid time. Rehabilitation Testing : Unannounced but preselected drug and/or alcohol testing done as part of a program of counseling, education, and treatment of a driver in conjunction with this policy. Sample : Urine, blood, breath, saliva, perspiration, or hair sample gathered for the purpose of drug or alcohol testing. Use : To consume, sell, purchase, manufacture, distribute, be under the influence of, report to work under the influence of, or be in the possession of drugs and/or alcohol. The term “use” shall also include the presence of drugs and/or alcohol in the body of the individual being tested, including the presence as a metabolite. This also includes the use of a prescription drug without a current valid prescription from a licensed physician or using a prescription drug beyond the prescribed therapeutic dosage. III. PROCEDURES Alcohol Rules Per FMCSA 49 CFR Part 382, drivers are prohibited from working with an alcohol concentration of 0.04 or greater. Any CDL driver with an alcohol concentration of 0.02 or greater (and 0.00 for under age 21), must be removed from duty pending the outcome of an investigation and may be subjected to termination of employment. No driver shall perform safety-sensitive functions within four hours after consuming alcohol. A driver will be subject to disciplinary action for consumption of an alcoholic beverage while on duty or when the consumption of alcoholic beverages, at a time proximate to his or her work time, creates a risk of harm to self, others, County, or private property. If a driver’s CDL driver’s license is suspended or revoked, temporarily or permanently, due to an alcohol-related offense, the driver must notify his/her supervisor of these circumstances when next reporting to duty. Failure to do so shall be cause for disciplinary action leading up to and including termination. A driver who receives a felony conviction because of alcohol whether on or off County premises or whether on or not on duty shall be cause for disciplinary action leading up to and including termination. Drug Rules Utah County has a zero-tolerance policy regarding controlled substances. Unlawful use, manufacture, distribution, dispensation, or possession of a controlled substance by a driver in the workplace or during work hours, including on-call time, is prohibited. Drivers in violation of this policy are subject to discipline. The use of any drug or substance that negatively affects performance or the ability of a driver to work in a safe manner may be cause for discipline where the driver knew or reasonably should have known that the drug would cause impairment or adversely diminish his/her capabilities to perform the job. Additionally, if a driver uses over-the-counter medication that may negatively affect his/her performance or ability to perform in a safe manner, the driver must notify his/her supervisor who may initiate the ADA interactive process with Human Resources. A driver who fails to notify his/her supervisor may be subject to disciplinary action. Whenever a driver is prescribed a medication, whether permanent or temporary and that medication(s) falls under a Schedule I substance, the driver may not drive for Utah County and must notify his/her supervisor immediately who may initiate the ADA interactive process with Human Resources depending on the duration of the medication. The illegal possession or use of controlled substances whether on or off County premises and whether on duty or not may be cause for disciplinary action leading up to and including termination, where such conduct can be shown to have a direct and material adverse effect on the County’s interests, including public image. If a driver’s license is suspended or revoked temporarily or permanently, due to a drug related offense, and/or a driver loses his/her DOT medical card, the driver must notify his/her supervisor of these circumstances when next reporting to duty. Failure to do so shall be cause for disciplinary action leading up to and including termination. A driver who has received a felony conviction for possession or being under the influence of controlled substances whether on or off County premises and whether on duty or not shall be cause for disciplinary action leading up to and including termination. The conviction of a driver for the sale or possession with intent to illegally sell controlled substances or abusable prescription drugs whether on or off County premises and whether on duty or not is cause for immediate termination. Medical Cannabis The Department of Transportation’s Drug and Alcohol Testing Regulation 49 CFR Part 40, at 40.151(e) does not authorize medical cannabis under state law to be a valid medical explanation for a CDL driver’s positive drug test result. A positive test result will be submitted to the DOT Clearinghouse and may result in disciplinary action up to and including termination. FMCSA Clearinghouse All Utah County CDL drivers will comply with the FMCSA Clearinghouse regulations. All drivers must register with the FMCSA Clearinghouse and remain registered for the duration of their employment with Utah County. All CDL drivers must provide and maintain authorization for Utah County HR Safety and Risk or its third-party administrator to pull their substance record annually. Supervisor Training Any employee who supervises a CDL driver must complete a one-time mandatory two-hour training on suspected drug and/or alcohol use. DOT Medical Card Part 383 All CDL drivers must obtain and maintain a DOT medical card as set forth in Part 383. Failure to renew or keep the State informed of the driver’s DOT medical card status is grounds for not being permitted to drive on Utah County business and may be subjected to disciplinary procedures. Any driver who no longer qualifies for a DOT medical card must immediately inform his/her supervisor who may initiate the ADA interactive process with Human Resources. Alcohol and Drug Testing Circumstances Pre-Employment : Once Utah County has made a conditional offer of employment to a new driver, Utah County must conduct a pre-employment query via the Clearinghouse. The new driver cannot start employment without a clear result from the Clearinghouse. The prospective driver must also complete pre-employment drug and potential alcohol tests. A positive result from the drug or alcohol screening may result in the applicant not being hired. Reasonable Suspicion : A driver must submit to an alcohol test and/or drug test when a trained supervisor, County officer, and/or elected official has reasonable suspicion to believe that the driver has violated the prohibitions concerning alcohol and/or drug use. Reasonable suspicion must be based on specific, contemporaneous, and reasonable observations concerning the appearance, behavior, speech, and/or body odors of the driver. Supervisors are responsible for documenting, approaching, and discussing their reasonable suspicion with their driver and coordinating with Utah County Human Resources in conducting testing. The supervisor and one witness, preferably another supervisor, must complete the Utah County Reasonable Suspicion Checklist and immediately submit the completed form to their appropriate department head and Office of Human Resources. The department head and representative(s) from Human Resources will review the form with the supervisors, as necessary, and if reasonable suspicion indicators exist, start the testing process. Once the testing process has started, the driver must be removed from their assigned duties and will be transported to the drug/alcohol testing site for screening. Once the test sample has been collected, Utah County will offer to make arrangements to have the driver transported home and who will remain off work until the official result(s) has been received by Human Resources. Supervisors may start the testing process in an after-hours situation or when a representative of Human Resources is unavailable when they either have the authorization from their department head or two managers have been trained in the reasonable suspicion process. Post-Accident : Utah County conducts drug and alcohol testing upon a driver involved in a serious on-the-job vehicle accident. A serious accident is defined as any accident resulting in; a human fatality, a citation and bodily injury with immediate medical treatment away from the scene; and/or a citation and disabling damage to any vehicle requiring tow away. Utah County may require testing after any accident when there is reasonable suspicion. A driver who is incapacitated to the point that he/she cannot provide a sample at the time of the incident shall later provide the necessary authorization for releasing hospital or medical reports that would indicate whether the driver was under the influence of drugs and/or alcohol. Additionally, testing results conducted at the scene of the accident and in accordance with law enforcement procedures, shall also be considered valid for purposes of this policy. Random : Utah County will comply with the DOT rules in Part 382 and test according to the FMCSA regulations. Drivers will be randomly selected and tested on a regular basis for both substance abuse and alcohol use. Return-to-Duty : Required for drivers who tested positive, refused or otherwise violated the prohibitions of 49 CFR Part 382 Subpart B and who completed the return-to-duty process with a DOT-qualified substance abuse professional. This test is directly observed, and a negative result is required before resuming driving duties. Follow-Up : Required for drivers who test positive, refuse, or otherwise violate the prohibitions of 49 CFR Part 382 Subpart B and who have completed the return-to-duty process with a DOT-qualified substance abuse professional, and have tested negative for a return-to-duty test. This testing is prescribed by the substance abuse professional for a minimum of 6 directly observed tests in 12 months but can be extended an additional 4 years. Medical Review Officer (MRO) Review If a drug screen is positive for a legal and prescribed controlled substance, the driver or prospective driver must provide within 24 hours of request to the MRO, bona fide verification of a valid current prescription for the drug identified in the drug screen and it must be in the individual’s name. The MRO will determine the drug screen results. The applicant will not be hired if acceptable prescription verification is not provided or if the applicant is taking a prohibited controlled substance according to the FMCSA. Refusal to Test The refusal to submit to a drug and/or alcohol test or to provide the necessary authorization for releasing hospital or medical reports that would indicate whether the driver was under the influence of drugs and/or alcohol shall be considered the same as a positive test result for a controlled substance. A driver determined to have tampered with, adulterated, or substituted his/her sample will also be considered the same as a positive test result for a controlled substance. The following, including but not limited to, are all considered refusals to test: Failure to appear for any test within 15 minutes of the designated time. Failure to remain at the testing site until the testing process is complete. Failure to provide a urine specimen for drug or a saliva or breath specimen for alcohol. Failure to provide enough urine for drug testing or an adequate amount of saliva or breath for alcohol testing without a medical explanation. Failure to permit observation or monitoring in the case of a directly observed or monitored drug test collection. Failure to follow the observer’s direction to raise or lower clothing to note that the individual being tested does not have a prosthetic or other device that could be used to interfere with the collection process. Using, possessing, or wearing a prosthetic or other device for the intent to interfere with the collection process. Admission to the collector or medical review officer that he/she adulterated or substituted the specimen. Failing or declining to take a second drug test when directed by a collector. Failure to undergo a medical examination or evaluation as part of the verification process for drug testing or as directed by the designated employer representative, as per “shy bladder” procedures. (Shy bladder is a condition characterized by the inability to urinate in the presence of others.) Failure to cooperate with any part of the testing process. Testing/Paid Administrative Leave and Costs Testing time will be deemed work time for the purpose of compensation for current drivers. See Utah Code 34-41-103, 104 for more information. Utah County will pay all costs of the initial testing and verification process. When a driver is asked to take a test and is taken off work while the test results are pending, the driver will be placed on paid administrative leave. If the driver has justifiable cause that the results of the drug testing were not accurate or reliable, the driver may request the retesting of a single specimen or split specimen through the Medical Review Officer within 3 business days of notification of a confirmed positive, adulterated, or substituted test result. The driver will bear the cost of the retesting. Retesting for a positive alcohol test is not permitted. Positive Results A positive alcohol test result is when a driver has a Blood Alcohol Concentration of 0.02 or greater or greater than 0.00 for anyone under the age of 21. A positive drug result is when a driver’s specimen sample indicates the presence of drugs in the system at or above either the screen or confirmed cut off level. A driver who has tested positive for alcohol and/or drug use is subjected to employee discipline. The driver will be placed on or continue paid administrative leave pending the outcome of a predetermination meeting. See 10.3 above. Disciplinary Procedures for Drivers For any driver who tests positive for drugs and/or alcohol, the recommended discipline is immediate termination of employment after a predetermination meeting. In this case, the paid administrative leave will cease, and the driver will be officially terminated from employment.


===== Policy 4-6000 Incompatible Outside Employment =====
Utah County Government Human Resources Policy Date Approved: March 11, 2020 Section # 4 Section Title Employee Relations Policy # 6000 Policy Title Incompatible Outside Employment 4-6000: Incompatible Outside Employment PURPOSE : It is the purpose of this policy to delineate when, and under what conditions, Utah County career service employees may participate in outside employment. I. POLICY County employment shall be the principal vocation of full-time employees governed by these rules. Utah County expects employees to devote their best efforts to the interests of Utah County. II. PROCEDURES Full-time and three-quarter-time employees may engage in outside employment with their department head's approval by declaring the proposed outside employment on the form provided by the County and submitting it to the department head (department heads engaging in outside employment must obtain approval from the County Commission); and subject to the following conditions. A. The outside employment must not interfere with the efficient performance of the employee’s County job duties. B. The outside job must not conflict with the interests of the department or of Utah County. C. The employee may not employ or supervise any County employees of the same County department as part of the outside employment without County Commission approval. As a condition of outside private sector employment, the employee may not employ or supervise anyone under the employee’s direct or indirect supervision within the County. D. Outside employment must not be the type that would reasonably give rise to complaints of conflicting interests or duties. In furtherance of this condition: 1. County employees involved in appraisal or assessment-related assignments shall not perform any private appraisal or assessment assignments within Utah County. County employees involved in appraisal or assessment-related assignments may perform private appraisal or assessment assignments in counties other than Utah County. 2. County building inspectors shall not perform any private inspections within unincorporated areas of Utah County. E. County employees who work in occupations having professional codes of ethics or standards of professional responsibility shall adhere to those requirements in the performance of their County duties. F. Department Head approval of outside employment must be forwarded to the Office of Human Resources. G. Any Utah County employee who has a personal or business interest of any kind which gives rise to an actual or potential conflict of interest with his/her public duties must comply with Utah County Human Resources Policy 4-0700 Ethics and Conflicts of Interest and Utah Code Annotated Section 17-16a-1,et seq. III. REFERENCES Policy 4-7000 Ethics and Conflict of Interest Conflicts of Interest and Utah Code Annotated Section 17-16a-1,et seq.


===== Policy 4-7000 Ethics And Conflicts Of Interest =====
Utah County Government Human Resources Policy Date Approved: March 11, 2020 Section # 4 Section Title Employee Relations Policy # 7000 Policy Title Ethics and Conflicts of Interest 4-7000: Ethics and Conflicts of Interest PURPOSE : The purpose of this policy is to describe conditions or situations that give rise to conflicts of interest for Utah County Employees. I. POLICY Employees shall not use their County position, or any influence, power, authority, or confidential information derived therefrom or County time, equipment, property or supplies for the private gain of any person or persons. II. PROCEDURES Employees shall not receive outside compensation for their performance of County duties except in cases of: Awards for meritorious public contribution, publicly awarded. Receipt of honoraria or expenses paid for papers, talks, demonstrations, or appearances made by employees with the approval of the County Commission, or on their own time for which they are not compensated by the County, and which are not prohibited by these rules. Receipt of usual social amenities, ceremonial gifts, or advertising gifts. An employee may not accept economic benefit tantamount to a gift, under Section 17-70-503 of the Utah Code, nor accept other compensation that might be intended to influence or reward the employee in the performance of official business. An employee shall declare a potential conflict of interest when required to do or decide something that could be interpreted as a conflict of interest. County managers shall then excuse the employee from making decisions or taking actions that may cause a conflict of interest. When an employee is required by the responsibilities of his or her position to take an action or make a decision which could be interpreted as a conflict of interest, the employee shall declare the potential conflict and may be excused by the County Commission from so acting. III. REFERENCES County Officers and Employees Disclosure Act https://le.utah.gov/xcode/Title17/Chapter16A/17-16a.html County Officers and Employees Disclosure Act, Prohibited use of official position - Exception https://le.utah.gov/xcode/Title17/Chapter16A/17-16a-S4.html?v=C17-16a-S4_1800010118000101


===== Policy 4-7500 Political Activity =====
Utah County Government Human Resources Policy Date Approved: March 11, 2020 Section # 4 Section Title Employee Relations Policy # 7500 Policy Title Political Activity 4-7500: Political Activity PURPOSE : It is the purpose of this policy to support Utah County employees’ rights to participate in the political process as they desire and at the same time ensure that Utah County’s workplaces are free from undue or inappropriate political influence. I. POLICY Utah County recognizes the right of Employees to engage in political activities outside of their employment. However, employees and officers of Utah County government may not engage in political activity during their hours of employment with Utah County. While employees do have the right to donate their personal time and money to their preferred candidates or causes, they may not engage in these activities while using public funds, public resources, or work time. II. PROCEDURES No person shall be denied the opportunity to become an applicant for a position under the merit system in any County department by virtue of political opinion or affiliation. No County officer or employee may engage in any form of political activity during hours of employment or utilize County property for any purpose relating to political activities or campaigning. County property includes not only County facilities, equipment, vehicles, supplies, funds, and systems, electronic and otherwise but also County services and County maintained information beyond the content and manner publicly available. The use of County logos or letterhead for political purposes is also inappropriate. County property may be used as polling places and/or election processing locations, and state law prohibits electioneering by anyone within 150 feet of a polling place while an election is being conducted. No person employed by the County under the merit system may be dismissed from service as a result of political opinion or affiliation. A County career service employee may voluntarily contribute funds to political groups and become a candidate for public office. No County officer or employee, whether elected or appointed, may directly or indirectly coerce, command, advise, or solicit any officer or employee covered under the merit system to pay, lend, or contribute part of his or her salary or compensation or anything else of value to any party, committee, organization, agency, or person for political purposes. No County officer or employee, whether elected or appointed, may attempt to make any officer's or employee's employment status dependent upon the employee's support or lack of support for any political party, committee, organization, agency, or person engaged in political activity. No officer or employee may engage in any political activity during the hours of employment nor shall any person solicit political contributions from County employees during hours of employment for political purposes, but nothing in this section shall preclude voluntary contribution by a County employee to the party or candidate of the employee's choice. Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to permit partisan political activity of any County employee who is prevented or restricted from engaging in such political activity by the provision of the Federal Hatch Act. III. REFERENCES Federal Hatch Act


===== Policy 4-8000 Progressive Discipline =====
Utah County Government Human Resources Policy Date Approved: February 19, 2025 Section # 4 Section Title Employee Relations Policy # 8000 Policy Title Progressive Discipline 4-8000: Progressive Discipline I. POLICY Disciplinary action may be imposed for unsatisfactory performance or misconduct as established by Human Resources policy, Standards of Conduct 4-4000, or departmental standards and policies. II. PROCEDURE Performance Management and Progressive Discipline The primary purpose of performance management is to change negative employee behavior and/or improve employee job performance. A supervisor must ensure that the employee has a clear understanding of job requirements and performance expectations. This understanding can be documented using written job descriptions, appraisals, orientation sessions, documented coaching, counseling, and other means. If an employee's conduct results in a situation that requires immediate removal of the employee from the work area, the employee may be placed on administrative leave with pay pending investigation. During an administrative leave with pay, the County must be able to contact the employee at any time during working hours. The employee shall promptly report to work when requested. Administrative leave with pay status should be utilized no longer than necessary to efficiently conduct the investigation and complete the required steps. Administrative leave may be utilized by the Department Head, HR Director, HR Business Partner, or any supervisor in the chain of command in an urgent situation. In all cases, the Department Head must be notified as soon as possible. Serious Conduct Problems. Serious conduct problems are characterized by the fact that even in isolated instances, they may have an immediate and serious negative impact on the County. Management intervention should always be immediate. After consulting with Human Resources, the hiring authority may elect to skip one or more steps in the progressive discipline process up to and including immediate termination. Employment disqualifying events. If an employee is not qualified to remain employed due to a disqualifying event (e.g., loss of required licensure, required certification, FMLA exhaustion), they may be terminated immediately without the right of appeal. Disciplinary actions should be administered by the supervisor in the chain of command, not the department head, whenever possible. The receipt of any disciplinary action should be acknowledged by the employee by signing and dating the document. If the employee refuses to acknowledge the receipt, a witness can sign and date the document stating the employee received a copy of this document. The original notice with the employee's or witness' signature shall be sent to the Office of Human Resources for placement in the employee's employment file. Pre-progressive disciplinary steps Verbal Coaching. Verbal coaching is a conversation between a supervisor and an employee about a specific aspect of the employee's performance and/or conduct. This is a preliminary step using a corrective coaching approach. The supervisor should keep a written record of the conversation. Documented Counseling. A documented counseling is a formal record between a supervisor and an employee about the employee's performance and/or conduct. The deficiency demonstrated should be verbally communicated, documented and acknowledged by the employee and kept by the supervisor. A documented counseling should include the following items: The date of the incident(s); The specific rule or policy violated and performance and/or conduct concerns; The expected conduct and level of work performance going forward; May include a statement that failure to correct the condition may result in disciplinary action. The employee must acknowledge by signing and dating the document or appraisal. An email containing the required items with employee acknowledgment may serve as documented counseling. An unsatisfactory performance appraisal item or section may serve as a documented counseling and notification or deficiency. Progressive Discipline Steps. Whenever possible, reasonable and sufficient time for improvement should precede corrective or disciplinary action. Written Reprimand. A written reprimand is a formal written notice to the employee regarding repeated offenses for which Documented Counseling has already been given, or in situations of significant misconduct and/or specific inadequate performance. All Written Reprimands shall be reviewed and approved by the Human Resources Director and County Attorney’s office prior to being presented to the employee. The written reprimand notice shall include: The date of the incident(s); The specific rule(s) or policy violated. Details of performance or conduct incidents. Any previous counseling or discipline and reference to prior training or coaching the employee received concerning related work performance and conduct. A performance plan listing specific improvements expected and a time limit within which expectations must be met. A statement that the employee must correct the condition and failure to correct the condition may result in more severe disciplinary action up to termination. The employee is asked to acknowledge receipt of this reprimand by signing and dating the document. The original of this reprimand with the employee's signature shall be sent to the Office of Human Resources of placement in the employment file. The HRIS system may be utilized to issue and acknowledge discipline. Pre-Determination Meeting. Prior to issuing a suspension without pay, demotion, disciplinary transfer or termination, a pre-determination meeting must be held. The employee must be notified of the meeting. The notice must include the charges upon which the discipline is based and that the meeting is their opportunity to respond to the allegations with any information they deem as helpful to their case. If there is the possibility that discipline may exceed reprimand, a predetermination meeting is required. Suspension Without Pay. A suspension may be issued after a written reprimand has been given and expectations have not been met or whenever an employee commits a serious conduct or performance violation. The length of a suspension without pay typically ranges from one (1) to five (5) workdays but may be longer. The suspension without pay written notice should include:  The effective date of the suspension, including the duration, time, and date the employee is to report back to work.  Details of the incidents or actions warranting the suspension without pay, including the rule or policy violated, as well as the dates and nature of previous coaching, counseling, and written reprimands (as applicable); A statement indicating the specific improvements expected and a time limit within which the improvements must be made. Notification that failure to correct the condition and meet expectations may result in more severe disciplinary action up to and including termination of employment. 4. Demotion or Disciplinary Transfer a. Demotion or disciplinary transfer is a disciplinary action that may be an alternative to termination in cases of conduct or performance failure. The hiring authority must consult with the Director of Human Resources and the Utah County Civil Attorney Office before recommending such action. 5. Termination. Termination (dismissal) may occur when previous disciplinary actions have been taken, and there has not been an adequate change in performance and/or behavior, or when an employee has committed a serious violation of county or departmental rules or policies. a. Only after the predetermination notice has been issued and the predetermination meeting is held may the hiring authority (typically a supervisor in the chain of command) recommend termination action. b. Non-Career Service Termination. The hiring authority or Department Head may, in consultation with the Human Resources Director or HR Business Partner, dismiss an employee having a status other than career service, with or without cause, without right of appeal upon providing written notification to the employee of the dismissal and the effective date. D. No decision to recommend suspension without pay, involuntary demotion, disciplinary transfer, or termination of a career service employee will be made without prior consultation with the Human Resources Director and the County Civil Division Attorney. The Commission shall be notified as soon as practical of any career service non-probationary termination. E. Upon written request of the employee and the employee's Department Head to the Human Resource Director, the employee may have a disciplinary action removed from their official employment file that was issued more than three (3) years prior to the request, provided that no ensuing progressive discipline or overall unsatisfactory performance appraisals have occurred. Upon removal, the written reprimand will be destroyed. F. If an employee faces potential disciplinary action, he/she has the right to request another individual to accompany them to related meetings to serve as a witness. The employee must notify the investigator or supervisor who will be present before the meeting. Investigatory or pre-determination meetings are not subject to delay or rescheduling due to the unavailability of the individual selected by the employee to serve as a witness. G. Notice that involuntary demotions, suspensions without pay, and terminations are eligible for appeal under the Human Resources Policies. See Policy 4-1000: Grievance and Appeal Process.   III. REFERENCES Policy 4-1000: Grievance and Appeal Process Policy 4-4000:Employee Standards of Conduct Policy 4-4500:Workplace Harassment


===== Policy 4-8500 Performance Appraisal =====
Utah County Government Human Resources Policy Date Approved: January 23, 2024 Section# 4 Section Title Employee Relations Policy# 8500 Policy Title Performance Appraisal 4-8500: Performance Appraisal PURPOSE : The purpose of this policy is to set forth the utilization of the employee appraisal proces s. I. POLICY A. Approval Procedure for Employee Personnel Actions. All merit, salary step increases shall be considered based on an employee's performance appraisal completed using the County’s standard employee appraisal. The performance appraisal requesting and supporting a merit step increase must be submitted to the Office of Human Resources a minimum of fifteen (15) working days prior to the effective date of the increase. All personnel actions requests, including merit salary step increase and all other employee actions, must be: Recommended by the department head or their designee. If increasing pay, be included in the approved county budget; and Approved by the Office of Human Resources after review of compliance with employment laws, rules, regulations, and practices. II. PROCEDURE A. Performance Appraisal The Office of Human Resources shall establish a system of performance appraisal designed to give a fair rating of the performance and conduct of employees in all departments. Such appraisals shall be prepared and recorded for all probationary employees at three and six months of employment, and at the end of the probation period (if extended beyond six months). The three-month appraisal may be waived in certain cases as approved by the department head and Director of Human Resources. An appraisal for employees serving a trial period shall be completed at six months following the promotion/demotion date and at the end of the trial period (if extended beyond six months), A satisfactory appraisal must be completed prior to annual merit salary step increases for career-service employees. Performance appraisals may, together with other criteria, be considered in making promotions, reassignments, demotions, terminations, the order of RIF and reinstatements, awards for meritorious service, and transfers. Department heads shall be responsible to ensure that each appraisal is acknowledged by the employee and completed on time. Each employee shall be entitled to a copy of their performance appraisal by their supervisor upon request. A career-service tenure employee receiving an overall performance appraisal rating below satisfactory may, within five (5) working days of receiving the performance appraisal, request a review before his/her supervisor and the department head or his/her designee to discuss the appraisal. The review may be attended by the employee, a representative of the employee, the supervisor, the department head or his/her designee, and, upon request of the employee or supervisor, a representative of the Office of Human Resources. The employee and/or the representative will explain the reason(s) the performance appraisal should be adjusted. The decision of the department head or his/her designee will be final and is not reviewable by the Career Service Council. A performance appraisal at or above the proficient or satisfactory rating cannot be reviewed or appealed. An employee's review date shall be established by the date such employee was hired into a Career Service position or promoted/demoted into a different career-service position with a higher or lower salary step range. III. REFERENCES Policy 5-0100 Pay Plan


===== Section 5 Compensation And Benefits =====
Policy 5-0100 Pay Plan Policy 5-0200 ADA Reasonable Accommodation Policy 5-0300 Group Insurance Plans Policy 5-0400 FMLA Policy 5-0500 Leave Policy 5-0600 Position Classification


===== Policy 5-0100 Pay Plan =====
Utah County Government Human Resources Policy Date Approved: February 1, 2023 Section # 5 Section Title Compensation and Benefits Policy # 0100 Policy Title Pay Plan 5-0100: Pay Plan PURPOSE : The purpose of this policy is to set forth the Utah County pay administration and policy. I. POLICY The Utah County Office of Human Resources (OHR), under the direction of the HR Director, shall be responsible for the design and administration of the compensation plan. Design of the plan shall achieve the goal to maintain a high-quality public workforce, considering the responsibility and difficulty of the work, the comparative pay and benefits needed to compete in the labor market, and to stay in proper alignment with other similar governmental units, and other factors. Utah County will set pay rates for employees in a fair and equitable manner, in accordance with merit system principles and the current pay plan. Utah County will not discriminate based on race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy), national origin, age, disability, gender identity, sexual orientation, or genetic information in its pay practices. All provisions, commitments, and conditions presented herein are subject to the availability of funding as provided in an approved annual personnel budget. II. PROCEDURES Pay Plan Annually, the HR Director shall recommend to the County Commission adjustments to the pay plan as needed to achieve competitive pay rates corresponding to those paid by other public jurisdictions in the labor market, considering total compensation, and competing industries as appropriate. Compensation pay studies should be conducted on a regular basis, considering both internal and external equity in the determination of a recommended pay grade for each position. Studies may be county-wide or for specific departments. Implementation methodology shall be established by the HR Director in consultation with the commission. Pay plan supporting documents including but not limited to rate tables, pilot programs, incentives, and premiums must be approved by the HR Director in consultation with the Commission and may be documented as an Addendum to the Pay Plan. Employee Hires The entry pay step for new employee hires is normally the first step of the range defined for the position classification. The HR Director may approve hires above the first step up to the mid-point of the pay range in situations warranted by prevailing wage rates, experience, and qualifications, or lack of availability of qualified applicants. Pay step approval above the pay range mid-point or when there is insufficient budgetary funding must be done in consultation with the Board of Commissioners of Utah County (Commission). Appointed Positions In consultation with the HR Director and with a sufficient wage budget available, the appointing authority may recommend a starting pay rate within the assigned pay range. Subsequent increases are at the discretion of the Department Head and should be administered in conjunction with a satisfactory performance appraisal. Salary Adjustments Probation Step Increase. A merit pay step increase to the next step in the assigned pay step range may be approved upon successful completion of the probationary period. Trial Period Step Increase. A merit pay step increase to the next step in the assigned pay step range may be approved upon successful completion of the trial period. Annual Merit Pay Step Increase Annual merit pay step increases are distinct and separate from cost-of-living or market pay adjustments. Annual merit pay step increases may be incrementally awarded to the top step of the assigned pay step range based on an individual’s proficient performance in their position and the completion of a performance appraisal that meets or exceeds expectations. Subject to budgetary and program limitations, employees who exceed expectations may be eligible for a two-step increase. Due to budgetary considerations, any pay action may be modified or suspended for specific periods of time on a County-wide basis through official action by the Commission. The HR Director will evaluate the equitable treatment of all employees affected by a subsequent reinstitution of merit pay step increases. Promotional pay increase. An employee promotion is defined by an increase in grade, an increase in job responsibility, a change in job title, and typically, movement into a supervisory position. Promotion to a non-supervisory position shall be accompanied by a two-step pay increase and promotion to a supervisory position from a non-supervisory position shall be accompanied by a three-step pay increase. Promotional pay increases will be based on the employee’s current grade and step on the existing pay plan. In no case will the pay level for the employee being promoted be less than the entry level or greater than the maximum for the pay grade of the new position. Career Ladder increases. A career ladder move is defined as a job development increase based upon satisfying specific criteria as defined in the job description. Upon request of the Department Head, employees in the career ladder series are eligible, if qualified, and the budget is approved. This is non-competitive and not considered a promotion but does qualify the employee for a two-step pay increase based on their rate in the previous grade. The new pay rate shall be Step A if Step A is two or more steps above the previous pay rate. A trial period is not applicable for career ladder increases and the review date does not change. After consultation with the Department Head and Commission, and when sufficient budgetary funding is available, the HR Director may approve pay actions outside of the parameters described above in unusual situations warranted by factors such as: Prevailing wage rates, extraordinary qualifications, experience, extraordinary work demands, hazardous conditions, or superior performance of an employee, where approving such action is expected to provide a long-range benefit to the County. The Department Head shall provide to the HR Director written justification for any pay action to be considered for approval pursuant to this section. The HR Director shall review the written justification with the Commission and make a recommendation consistent with this section. Bonus Awards and Incentives Excluding Elected officials, all employees of Utah County Government are potentially eligible. Based upon budget and funding availability, a Department Head or Elected official may recommend a discretionary bonus for a specific employee of no more than the annual value of one step. The award must be requested to HR. Bonus awards are to be used to recognize employee contributions that have exceeded expectations for exceptional performance or organizational cost savings. The employee contribution must be for an action or accomplishment that is beyond the scope of the employee’s regular day-to-day activities and assignments. All bonus awards must be discretionary and approved by the HR Director. The Department Head must submit a request for approval with supporting justification as required by the HR Director. Demotion, Transfer, and Reassignment When an employee is voluntarily or involuntarily demoted, his/her pay may be reduced, based upon the recommendation of the HR Director to a step within the pay range of the new position pay grade, and should not exceed the maximum of the pay grade, unless the demotion was a result of a position reclassification. When an employee laterally transfers or is reassigned, he/she shall be compensated at the same pay step held prior to the transfer or reassignment.  An employee’s review date does not change when he/she is transferred or reassigned. Time-Limited Positions. Compensation for Time-Limited positions, (such as, but not limited to part-time non-benefited, temporary, emergency, seasonal, and interns) will be in accordance with a pay schedule developed by the HR Director. Acting Pay. When a Career Service status employee is directed in writing and temporarily accepts the full duties, responsibilities, and accountability for a vacant position and the vacant position is of a higher step range than the employee’s, the employee may be eligible for acting pay. Acting pay may be requested and authorized only when a vacant position is under active recruitment or is temporarily vacant as the result of approved family and medical leave or military leave or is temporarily vacant due to other circumstances as authorized by the HR Director. Acting Pay is at the rate of: Five percent (5%) above his/her regular pay step or The entry pay step of the range of the vacant position, whichever is greater. For an employee to be considered for acting pay, the employee’s Department Head shall submit a written request to the HR Director identifying the vacant position, the employee’s additional duties, the beginning date of the acting assignment, and the anticipated date when the position will no longer be vacant. Acting pay must be requested in advance in writing, authorized by the HR Director, and approved by the Board of Utah County Commissioners. Acting pay may be discontinued when the vacant position is filled, or when requested by the Department Head, authorized by the HR Director in consultation with the Commission. On-Call Pay. Occasionally, it may be necessary for a Department Head or designee to issue written assignments specifying time frames for employees of any status holding Career Service positions to be available and on-call to perform emergency work immediately upon notification at times outside assigned employee work schedules. On-call assignments should only be issued when employees must be restricted from using off-duty time effectively for personal pursuits. Reasons for on-call assignments are subject to review and approval by HR. On-call is defined as the time an employee must: Either remain at his/her residence OR remain within the same mileage radius as his/her residence of the appropriate County work site and carry an electronic pager/cellular telephone for immediate contact; Report to the assigned work site for duty within thirty (30) minutes from the time a call to duty is first initiated OR when traveling conditions are impaired and/or the work site is more than twenty (20) miles from the employee’s residence, start traveling to the work site within fifteen (15) minutes from the time a call to duty is first initiated, and Restrict off-duty activities to ensure the appropriate physical and mental capability to immediately begin work at any time. Employees assigned to work on-call and not complying with sub-paragraph 2, above are subject to disciplinary action. Employees may be asked to carry a cellular telephone to answer questions, to be contacted, and/or asked to return to work if possible, or for any other purpose other than as required by the following on-call definition are not considered to be on-call. Normally, only full-time Career Service status employees who are not exempt from the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) are entitled to receive on-call pay. Exceptions to this policy may be made by the HR Director in cases of operational exigency. Pay for on-call time is at the rate of $2.00 for each one (1) hour period. Hours worked in response to a call to duty are compensated as regular hours worked subject to appropriate overtime rules. Resolving an issue by verbal communication without reporting to the work site is not considered a call to duty. On-call pay stops when an employee starts traveling to the work site in response to a call and resumes after the work is complete and the employee has traveled away from the work site. The actual time an employee starts traveling to the work site, arrives at the work site, completes the necessary work, and the time the employee completes his/her travel away from the work site must be documented using the on-call assignment form that is submitted with payroll time sheets and by supporting telephone calls as specified by department procedures for the time worked to be compensable. An employee cannot be paid both on-call pay and regular/overtime pay for the same hours. Other Premium Pay In consultation with the Commission, additional premium pay may be recommended and implemented by the HR Director in cases of unusual or hazardous work situations where such pay is appropriate and supported by a demonstrated operational exigency. Other Premium Pay may be rescinded at any time as determined by and at the discretion of the HR Director in consultation with the Commission. Exceptions to this policy may be approved by the HR Director in consultation with the Commission. III. REFERENCES Policy 1-1500 Overtime Policy 3-4000 Employee Status, Probation and Trial Periods


===== Policy 5-0200 ADA Reasonable Accommodation =====
Utah County Government Human Resources Policy Date Approved: February 12, 2020 Section # 5 Section Title Compensation and Benefits Policy # 0200 Policy Title ADA Reasonable Accommodation 5-0200: ADA Reasonable Accommodation PURPOSE: It is the purpose of this policy and procedures to set forth Utah County’s policy regarding the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), the American with Disabilities Act Amendments Act (ADAAA), and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act (Section 504). Further, to set forth the procedures for determining when and what reasonable accommodations are required for qualified individuals with a disability. I. POLICY It is the Policy of Utah County to comply with the provisions of the ADA, ADAAA, and Section 504 regarding qualified individuals and the provision of reasonable accommodations. II. PROCEDURES An employee who requests a change in job duties, work schedule, or other accommodation based on a medical condition will be referred to Human Resources (HR). The employee making the request must return the following completed forms to the HR. Medical/Healthcare Information Release Accommodation Eligibility Questionnaire Medical Disability Verification Form The interactive process. HR will review the request and engage in an interactive process with the employee and discuss whether accommodations may be made to allow the employee to perform the essential job functions. HR will consult with the employee’s department as part of the process. HR may require additional information from the employee or the medical provider prior to making a determination. The County is not required to lower performance standards to make an accommodation. A disabled employee is required to follow the same rules, policies, procedures, and standards that other employees are required to adhere to in the work environment. Any accommodation that would pose a significant health or safety risk to an employee or others in the workplace is not considered reasonable. The HR will document all consultation meetings with the employee requesting accommodation and the process on the ADA Interactive Worksheet. Before denying an employee an accommodation on the basis that it would pose an undue hardship, HR must consult with the Utah County Attorney's Office. HR will document its inability to provide accommodation Documentation must include an assessment of the reasonableness of the denial and identify which accommodations have been explored. A copy of the documentation will be retained by the OHR and must be made available to the employee for review. The employee may appeal the denial of the requested accommodation to the Utah County Commission within fourteen calendar days after receiving notification of the denial. The accommodation process is intended to be an ongoing interaction between management and the employee. The HR will meet with the employee and with the employee’s department at least annually to review the accommodation and discuss whether the accommodation should be modified or eliminated. As part of the accommodation review process, the HR may request documentation from the employee’s treatment provider or, in the alternative direct the employee to be evaluated by a provider selected by the HR at the County’s expense in order to determine if the current accommodation is sufficient, effective and necessary. Accommodations may include the following: Restructuring jobs (elimination of non-essential tasks, reassignment of work among coworkers, development of non-traditional solutions for day-to-day tasks). Modifying work schedules Removing physical barriers Acquiring or modifying equipment or devices Providing readers or interpreters Reassigning or transferring an employee to a vacant position Adjusting or modifying examinations, training materials, or policies Additional suggested accommodations found at the Job Accommodations Network The cost of accommodation will be borne by the County. A department that is financially incapable of providing a reasonable accommodation may solicit assistance from Utah County Commission by contacting HR in writing identifying the accommodation, the cost, and documenting the agency's inability to bear the expense. A qualified employee who voluntarily offers to contribute toward the expense of accommodation may be allowed to do so. A qualified employee who wishes to bring medically necessary equipment or devices to work may be allowed to do so with supervisory approval. Transfers/Reassignments for an employee who can no longer perform essential functions of the position. If an employee is unable to continue performing essential functions of the position with, or without accommodations due to a qualifying disability, the OHR will attempt to transfer or reassign the employee to a vacant position within the County. While the decision to transfer or reassign is pending, the employee may choose to use accumulated leave or will be on leave without pay. If a vacant position is available for which the employee qualifies, the OHR, in consultation with the department where the vacancy exists, will effectuate a transfer. If a vacant position is not immediately available within the County, the employee will be terminated. Job Applicant/Interview Reasonable Accommodations Policy and Procedure HR will provide reasonable accommodations to qualified applicants during the application and examination process. If necessary, an applicant should make a request for a reasonable accommodation to the OHR at least five calendar days prior to an examination or interview. Reasonable accommodation costs will be paid by the County. The County is not required to lower performance expectations or standards for a disabled applicant. Before a qualified applicant is denied an employment opportunity because the accommodation required would pose an undue hardship, the OHR must consult with the Utah County Attorney's Office. Accommodations may include providing assistance in filling out the employment application, rescheduling the examination, moving the examination to an alternative location, reading the test to the applicant, providing interpreters, visual aids, enlarged print, extending time limits, etc. III. REFERENCES Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) American with Disabilities Act Amendments Act (ADAAA) Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act (Section 504) Job Accommodation Network: https://askjan.org/


===== Policy 5-0300 Group Insurance Plans =====
Utah County Government Human Resources Policy Date Approved: December 20, 2023 Section # 5 Section Title Compensation and Benefits Policy # 0300 Policy Title Group Insurance Plans 4-0300: Group Insurance Plans PURPOSE : The purpose of this policy is to describe group insurance plans provided by Utah County to its employees. I. POLICY It is the Policy of Utah County to provide certain group insurance to specified classifications of employees as part of their employment benefits and in accordance with the procedures set forth herein. II. PROCEDURES Insurance Group Health. All Career service, appointed, and elected employees are eligible for participation in the County's Group Health and Dental Insurance Plans. Benefit features, providers, and contribution levels paid by County and the employee will be determined annually by the Director and the County Commission. Insurance coverage begins on the first day of the month following the date of hire if enrollment has been made as indicated below. To be covered by the plan, an employee must enroll within 30 days of the date. New employees who fail to enroll before this date shall not be covered until the following January 1, or other annual open enrollment date established by the County. Changes to an employee’s elections, or new enrollments, may also be made within thirty (30) days of the date of a qualifying life event as defined by law. A health savings account (HSA) is available to those employees who enroll in the high deductible plan. The County may match HSA contributions based on dollar amounts and/or participation in wellness programs. See the current benefits guide for more information. Employees are solely responsible for ensuring that their HSA contributions do not exceed the maximum allowed by law, and to deal with any tax consequences of excess contributions. Employees are encouraged to consult with their tax advisor regarding any questions. Employees on leave of absence without pay for more than one pay period shall be required to pay the total premium for the period of such leave unless leave is qualified under the Family Medical Leave Act or Workers Compensation. An employee’s coverage ends on the last day of the month in which the employee separates from employment. Group Health and Dental Insurance coverage benefits, and other eligible benefits, may be continued beyond termination of employment at the employee's option, in accordance with COBRA rights under federal law. The cost of coverage for health and dental insurance continuation coverage must be paid by the insured. Life Insurance. All elected, appointed and career service employees shall be eligible for participation in the County's group life insurance plan. The County provides basic life insurance coverage for each eligible employee The Utah Retirement System also provides a death benefit for eligible employees. Additional coverage for the employee and/or dependents may be available for purchase by the employee through payroll deduction. See the annual benefits guide for more information. Life Insurance coverage ends on the last day of the month in which the employee separates from employment. In most cases, an employee's official termination date is the last day physically worked. Employees on leave of absence without pay more than one pay period may be required to pay the entire premium for supplemental coverage purchased through payroll deduction for the period of such unpaid leave. Long-Term Disability (LTD) This plan provides a percentage of monthly pre-disability income integrated with other sources of income such as Social Security, Workers' Compensation, wages, retirement, etc. Employees must be disabled for 90 days before becoming eligible for benefits. Survivor Income After 4 years of full-time benefited service, and based on the employee's monthly base (excluding overtime, bonuses, or other additional pay) income at the time of death, while the employee's survivors remain eligible, the County will pay the employee's survivors the following monthly benefit, provided the survivors comply with the County's annual documentation of eligibility requirements: 30% paid to the spouse who has not remarried if both a spouse and child(ren) under age 21 survive (to spouse’s age 65). 20% paid to the surviving spouse who has not remarried if only a spouse survives (to the spouse’s age 65). 20% paid to surviving child(ren) under age 21 if there is no surviving spouse. If more than one eligible child survives, the 20% benefit shall be divided equally among the children. Health Insurance Coverage for Early Retirement. Any County employee in good employment standing (not subject to a disciplinary proceeding or investigation resulting, or which could result, in a recommendation for termination) voluntarily retiring before reaching age 65 with either 20 years of service for Utah County public safety employees or 30 years of service for all other Utah County employees, considering only Utah County government years of service not including purchased years of service, shall upon request, receive insurance coverage based upon their years of service as of January 2, 2004: Employees who had completed at least 50 but less than 80 percent of the required years of service as of January 2, 2004 (i.e., at least 10 but less than 16 years of service with Utah County for Utah County public safety employees and at least 15 but less than 24 years of service with Utah County for all other Utah County employees), and who voluntarily retire before reaching age 65 (in good standing having the required 20 or 30 years of service with Utah County described above), may elect to remain in the group health insurance plan available to current employees until the retiree reaches age 65. The maximum premium paid on behalf of the retired employee by the County is $365 per month. Employees who had completed less than 50 percent of the required years of service as of January 2, 2004 (i.e., less than 10 years of service with Utah County for Utah County public safety employees and less than 15 years of service with Utah County for all other Utah County employees), and who voluntarily retire before reaching age 65 (in good standing having the required 20 or 30 years of service with Utah County described above), shall be eligible to remain in the group health insurance plan available to current employees until the retiree reaches age 65. The maximum premium paid on behalf of the retired employee by the County is $178.40 per month. Utah County employees hired or rehired on or after July 1, 2003, unless rehired in accordance with the reduction in force procedures, are not eligible to receive County contributions toward health insurance upon retirement. However, if the employee meets requirements for Utah Retirement Systems retirement based upon Utah County years of service, such employees may remain on Utah County’s group health insurance plan available to current employees until the retiree reaches age 65 by paying the entire premium for the insurance option selected. For any retiree to elect retiree coverage, he or she must be covered by the County's plan at the time of retirement. When the retired employee reaches age 65, the retiree and his or her dependents will no longer be eligible for coverage under the County’s Health Insurance coverage for early retirement. Continuation of coverage under COBRA may be available. The retired employee shall pay his/her portion of the health insurance premium to Utah County by the first of each month for that month’s coverage. Should the premium be in arrears more than sixty (60) calendar days, health insurance benefits shall be terminated and will not be reinstated. The retiree shall not be eligible to receive any County contributions towards health insurance premiums if the retiree participates in any other employment-related group health insurance program to which a new employer contributes on his/her behalf. If continuously covered by another group health plan, the retiree may have a one-time option to re-enroll in the County’s plan, providing he or she does so within 30 days of losing the other group coverage and was eligible for a county contribution to the retiree health insurance at the time of retirement. It is the right of Utah County to modify any provision or to discontinue, at any time, all or any part of the retiree health insurance program or any other benefit program. Retirement - Utah County Career Service and appointed employees may be eligible for participation in the Utah Retirement Systems plans, as well as a Defined Contribution 401(k) Retirement Plan, and a Voluntary Deferred Compensation 457 plan. Detailed information regarding these retirement plans may be requested through the Office of Human Resources. Utah Retirement Systems - Contribution rates will be established annually by the state legislature. Employees’ eligibility for participation in specific Utah Retirement Systems plans will depend on their date of hire and whether they work in an approved Public Safety position or other Public Employment. Public Employees Noncontributory. All eligible career service employees hired before July 1, 2011 (except public safety, elected, and some appointed), will be enrolled in this plan. All required contributions are paid by the County. The plan will provide a monthly income at retirement based on average salary and length of service. Public Safety Noncontributory. All certified peace officers hired after November 27, 1989, and before July 1, 2011, serving in positions designated by the retirement system as public safety will be enrolled in this plan. All required contributions are paid by the County. The plan will provide a monthly income at retirement based on average salary and length of service. Tier 2 Plans. Career service, full-time elected, and appointed employees hired on or after July 1, 2011, will be enrolled in either the Public Employee or Public Safety Utah Retirement Systems Tier 2 Hybrid Plan (unless they have already established eligibility for participation in one of the Tier 1 plans listed above). Tier 2 employees may elect to remain in the hybrid plan, or they may make a binding election within their first year of employment to participate in the Utah Retirement Systems Defined Contribution plan. Benefits at retirement will depend on which plan was chosen. The hybrid plan benefit will be based on length of service and average salary; the Defined Contribution Plan benefit will be a distribution of the accumulated account balance in accordance with plan provisions. Tier 2 Public Safety Employee Paid Contributions. Utah County Government will pay the Tier 2 Public Safety additional contribution of 2.59% that would otherwise be paid by the employee. For Tier 2 Public Safety DC plan elections, the county will pay the same additional contribution as the Tier 2 Public Safety DB Hybrid plan. All Utah Retirement Systems plans have a four-year vesting requirement. Exemption. Elected officials and appointed employees may elect to be exempted from the Utah Retirement System plans. In cases where exemption is elected, a contribution may be made by the County to a Supplemental Retirement Account (401(a)). 401(k) Plan All eligible employees may participate in this County-sponsored plan up to the maximum contribution allowed by law. Contributions may be made through pre-tax payroll deductions, or after-tax Roth contributions (when available). New employees will be automatically enrolled at 6.2% upon eligibility unless they elect otherwise allowed. Following the successful completion of the probationary period, the County will match employee contributions up to 6.2% of compensation. URS Post-retirees rehired after July 1, 2010 are not eligible for the 6.2% county match. All contributions will be based on straight-time earnings (not including overtime) each pay period. Employees may change or discontinue contribution levels at any time. The 401(k)-account balance may be withdrawn by the employee at retirement or termination of employment, or after age 59 1/2 while still employed. Taxes will be withheld in accordance with federal and state law requirements. Early withdrawal penalties may apply. Other distribution options may also be available. Voluntary Deferred Compensation (457). All eligible employees may participate in this plan up to the maximum contribution allowed by law. Contributions are made through pre-tax payroll deductions. The County does not contribute to this plan. The balance of the account, less required withholding, may be distributed to the employee at retirement or termination of employment. There are no early withdrawal penalties applicable to this plan. Leave payouts upon termination are eligible for 457 plan deferrals and will be applied at the percentage contribution amount set by the employee. The responsibility to stay under the annual contribution limit is entirely the employee's responsibility. Employees are solely responsible for ensuring that their contributions do not exceed the maximum allowed by law, and to deal with any tax consequences of excess contributions. Employees are encouraged to consult with their tax advisor regarding any questions. Public Safety Enhanced HRA Retirement Benefit. A Health Reimbursement Arrangement (HRA) benefit plan is available to retirees who retire from the Tier I URS Public Safety Retirement System on or after December 1, 2010. Annual enrollment will be required, and the benefit will end at age 65. Retirees may enroll in this Enhanced Retirement Benefit whether or not they are enrolled in the Utah County Retiree Medical Plans. Federal law prohibits the use of an HRA while an employee is actively contributing to a Health Savings Account (HSA). However, the employee may continue to have distributions from an existing HSA while also receiving benefits from this HRA. The HRA benefit reimburses qualified health care expenses up to $800 annually. III. REFERENCES Current benefit guide.


===== Policy 5-0400 FMLA =====
Utah County Government Human Resources Policy Date Approved: December 20, 2023 Section # 5 Section Title Compensation and Benefits Policy # 0400 Policy Title FMLA 5-0400: FMLA PURPOSE : The purpose of this policy is to document that the administration of Family Medical Leave at Utah County is in compliance with 29 CFR Part 825 - The Family and Medical Leave Act. Utah County will afford every right and benefit to eligible employees. I. POLICY This policy provides employees with a general description of their FMLA rights. In the event of any conflict between this policy and the applicable law, employees will be afforded all rights required by law. The Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) provides certain employees with up to 12 weeks of unpaid, job-protected leave per year. It also requires that their group health benefits be maintained during the leave. FMLA is designed to help employees balance their work and family responsibilities by allowing them to take reasonable unpaid leave for certain family and medical reasons. It also seeks to accommodate the legitimate interests of employers and promote equal employment opportunities for men and women. II. PROCEDURES Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA) General Provisions and Definitions. To qualify as FMLA leave, the employee must be requesting leave for one of the following reasons: The birth of a child and to care for that child. The placement of a child for adoption or foster care and to care for the newly placed child. To care for a spouse, child, or parent with a serious health condition. The serious health condition of the employee that makes the employee unable to perform his or her job. Qualifying exigency leave for families of active duty service members and the National Guard and Reserves when the covered military member is on active duty or called to active duty in support of a contingency operation. Military caregiver leave to care for an ill or injured service member. This includes veterans who are undergoing medical treatment, recuperation, or therapy for serious injury or illness that occurred any time during the five (5) years preceding the date of treatment. Serious Health Condition. A serious health condition is defined as an illness, injury, impairment, or physical or mental condition that involves either an overnight stay in a medical care facility or continuing treatment by a health care provider for a condition that either prevents the employee from performing the functions of the employee’s job or prevents the qualified family member from participating in school or other daily activities. Subject to certain conditions, the continuing treatment requirement may be met by a period of incapacity of more than three consecutive calendar days combined with at least two visits to a health care provider or one visit and a regimen of continuing treatment, or incapacity due to pregnancy, or incapacity due to a chronic condition. Other conditions may meet the definition of continuing treatment. In general, employees who will be absent for more than five days are required to apply for FMLA leave. Employees with questions about whether a condition is covered by this policy should consult with the Office of Human Resources. Qualifying exigency leave for families of members of the National Guard and Reserves. An employee whose spouse, son, daughter or parent is an active duty service member or an employee whose spouse, son, daughter or parent is in the National Guard or Reserves and has been notified of an impending call or order to active military duty or who is already on active duty may take up to 12 weeks of leave for reasons related to or affected by the family member’s call-up or service. The qualifying exigency must be one of the following: short-notice deployment, military events and activities, 
 childcare and school activities, 
 financial and legal arrangements,
 counseling,
 rest and recuperation,
 post-deployment activities, or
 additional activities that arise out of active duty, provided that the employer and employee agree, including agreement on the timing and duration of the leave.
 The leave may commence as soon as the individual receives the call-up notice. (Son or daughter for this type of FMLA leave is defined the same as for child for other types of FMLA leave except that the person does not have to be a minor.)
 This type of leave will be counted toward the employee’s 12-week maximum of FMLA leave in a 12-month period.
 Military caregiver leave to care for an ill or injured servicemember: FMLA includes a special leave entitlement that permits eligible employees to take up to 26 weeks of leave to care for a covered servicemember during a single 12-month period. A covered servicemember is a current member of the Armed Forces, including a member of the National Guard or Reserves, who has a serious injury or illness incurred in the line of duty on active duty that may render the servicemember medically unfit to perform his or her duties for which the servicemember is undergoing medical treatment, recuperation, or therapy; or is in outpatient status; or is on the temporary disability retired list. This special leave entitlement also includes veterans who are undergoing medical treatment, recuperation or therapy for serious injury, or illness that occurred any time during the five (5) years preceding the date of treatment.
 Eligibility. Employees are eligible for Family and Medical Leave if they have worked for Utah County for a minimum of twelve months, and they have worked at least 1,250 hours during the 12-month period immediately prior to the commencement date of the requested leave. Amount of Leave. Eligible employees will be allowed up to 12 weeks of FMLA leave within a twelve-month period for the approved FMLA circumstances listed A.1. The FMLA eligibility year will be a twelve-month rolling period, looking backward from the date the leave is to commence; therefore, no more than 12 weeks may be taken in any 12-month period. An eligible employee may take up to 26 weeks for the FMLA circumstance (military caregiver leave) during a leave year. FMLA leave already taken for other FMLA circumstances will be deducted from the total of 26 weeks available. If spouses are both working for Utah County and leave is taken for the adoption or birth of a healthy child, or to care for a sick parent, the maximum combined leave for both spouses is 12 weeks. If leave is taken to care for an ill child or spouse, each spouse is entitled to 12 total weeks of leave. If both spouses work for the County and each wishes to take leave to care for a covered injured or ill service member, the husband and wife may only take a combined total of 26 weeks of leave. The employee must conclude leave for the birth or placement of a child for adoption or foster care within 12 months after the event. Leave may begin prior to birth or placement, as circumstances dictate. Intermittent Leave. In the case of the employee's own serious health condition or that of a family member, the employee may take leave intermittently or on a reduced work schedule if medically necessary. Leave due to qualifying exigencies may also be taken on an intermittent basis. When the leave is for the adoption or birth of a child, the employee may not take leave intermittently or on a reduced work schedule unless approved by the Department head and the Director as being for the benefit of the County. Employees must make reasonable efforts to schedule leave for planned medical treatment so as not to unduly disrupt the employer’s operations. If the employee is on intermittent or reduced leave status, Utah County may temporarily transfer the employee to another position of equivalent pay and benefits to better accommodate the leave. In cases where an employee requests intermittent leave for parent bonding, it is required that this leave first be approved by the employee's department head and the Human Resources Director. Use of Paid Leave. An employee who is taking FMLA leave must use all paid vacation, compensatory time, personal preference, and sick leave prior to being eligible for unpaid FMLA leave. In cases where the employee has a qualifying disability and has selected Short Term Disability coverage, they may after seven days, use 40% FMLA paid time off and report 60% FMLA Leave Without Pay. To use paid leave for FMLA leave, employees must comply with the County's normal paid leave policies, such as call-in requirements. FMLA leave will run concurrently with workers’ compensation leave if the reason for absence meets the definition of a serious health condition. Using paid time off benefits does not add to the total length of the leave. Unless paid time off benefits are available, pay will be reduced for all full days of unpaid leave taken or for all hours of leave taken in a single day. Reducing pay for partial days off will not impact the exempt status of exempt employees under the Fair Labor Standards Act. When the employee has worked additional time in a pay period that they do not need to report paid time off on the day that FMLA was taken, they are required to report FMLA Leave Without Pay on the date and hours that FMLA was taken. Failure to properly report FMLA time off taken may result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination. Employee Status and Benefits During Leave. Coverage under all group health and life insurance plans will continue during FMLA leave on the same terms as if the employee had continued to work. Both Utah County and the employee will continue to pay their respective portions of the monthly premiums as applicable. The Office of Human Resources will advise the employee of the payment due dates and process for submitting payment. If the employee chooses not to return from leave, the employee may be required to repay Utah County's portion of the premiums paid. The use of FMLA leave cannot result in the loss of any employment benefit that accrued prior to the start of the employee’s leave. Job Restoration. Employees who are granted leave may be asked to provide a fitness for duty release from the health care provider. Employees will generally be returned to the same position held prior to the leave or one that is equivalent in pay, benefits, and other terms and conditions of employment. Procedure for Requesting FMLA Leave. Employees requesting FMLA leave must provide verbal or written notice of the need for the leave to the Office of Human Resources (801-851-8158 & email FMLA@utahcounty.gov). When the need for leave is foreseeable, the employee must provide at least 30 days’ advance notice. When 30 days’ notice is not possible, the employee must provide notice as soon as practicable and explain why advance notice was not given. Generally, the employee must also comply with the department’s normal call-in procedures. Human Resources Notification Responsibility: Human Resources will notify the employee and the employee's chain of command of approval parameters and the expected duration of leave. Employees must provide sufficient information for the County to determine if the leave may qualify for FMLA protection and the anticipated timing and duration of the leave. Sufficient information may include that the employee is unable to perform job functions, the family member is unable to perform daily activities, the need for hospitalization or continuing treatment by a health care provider, or circumstances supporting the need for military family leave. Employees also must inform the County if the requested leave is for a reason for which FMLA leave was previously taken or certified. The County will require complete and sufficient certification for the employee’s serious health condition, or that of a family member, or for military family leave. The employee must respond to such a request for information within 15 days of the request or provide a reasonable explanation for the delay. Re-certifications supporting the need for leave and the employee’s intent to return to work may be requested periodically as allowed by law. Failure to provide complete and sufficient certification may result in a denial of continuation of leave. Medical and other certifications will be provided using the Department of Labor’s certification forms. If there is a dispute about the medical opinion provided by any physician, Utah County may require a second opinion by a physician of its choice, at its expense. If a third opinion is necessary, a third doctor may be selected, also at Utah County's expense. The third doctor must be agreed upon by both the employee and Utah County, and the doctor may not be employed on a regular basis by Utah County. Designation of FMLA Leave. After the employee has submitted the appropriate certification forms, the Office of Human Resources will provide the employee with a written response to the employee’s request for FMLA, indicating whether or not they are eligible for FMLA leave. Employees will be informed if the leave will be designated as FMLA-protected and the amount of leave counted against the employee’s FMLA entitlement. If eligible, the notice will specify any additional information required. If the employee is not eligible, the County will provide a reason for the ineligibility. Unlawful Acts. FMLA makes it unlawful for the County to interfere with, restrain, or deny the exercise of any right provided under FMLA, or to discharge or discriminate against any person for opposing any practice made unlawful by FMLA or for involvement in any proceeding under or relating to FMLA. III. REFERENCES FMLA Federal Regulation


===== Policy 5-0500 Leave =====
Utah County Government Human Resources Policy Date Approved: April 22, 2026 Section # 5 Section Title Compensation and Benefits Policy # 0500 Policy Title Leave 5-0500: Leave PURPOSE : The purpose of this policy is to define categories of leave plans and leave benefits available to Utah County benefit-eligible employees. I. POLICY It is the policy of Utah County to grant leave to certain categories of employees. A reasonable period of time away from the job is conducive to good health and can have a refreshing effect that is advantageous to both the employee and the County. Additionally, leave is required to be used by an employee when necessary to meet minimum work-hour reporting requirements. II. PROCEDURES General Provisions. All periods of leave must be approved by a supervisor, Department head, or Office of Human Resources representative. Elected Officials are not subject to Utah County leave policies. Appointed employees exempt from career service may be designated by the appointing authority as not subject to Utah County leave policies. If so designated, no specific amount of paid time off is promised, guaranteed, vested, or accrued. Leave Records. The Office of Human Resources (HR) shall maintain complete leave records for each employee. The records shall be maintained in the Human Resource Information System (HRIS) authorized for use by the HR Director. Such records are subject to audit by the Director of Human Resources. Absence Without Leave (Unauthorized Leave Status). Employees may not be absent from duty without the permission of their department head. Absence without leave shall be sufficient cause for forfeiture of all rights and privileges earned while employed. An employee absent for three (3) consecutive working days without notice and without sufficient reason, or absent without being in an authorized or approved leave status, shall be considered to have resigned (De facto resignation). An employee who has exhausted all paid leave and FMLA leave, and is unable or unwilling to return to work, shall be deemed to be in an unauthorized leave status unless unpaid leave has been requested and granted in accordance with Human Resources policy. Vacation Leave. Vacation leave shall be accumulated according to the most recent date of hire and the number of years of consecutive employment with the County. Career service employees and designated appointed employees shall be allowed to accrue vacation leave as shown on the following schedules. The balance of vacation leave up to 300 hours will be paid out to any career service employee who is elected or selected for a position or office of Utah County, not subject to leave accrual policies. Vacation accumulation rates: Vacation accrual for employees hired before 07/01/2011 in hours per pay period Years of Service Full-Time (40 hrs/wk) 1/2 Time (20-29.5 hrs/wk) 3/4 Time (30-39.5 hrs/wk) 0 thru 4 4 2 3 5 thru 9 5 2.5 3.75 10 thru 14 6 3 4.5 15 thru 19 7 3.5 5.25 20 or more 8 4 6 Vacation accrual for employees hired on or after 07/01/2011 in hours per pay period Years of Service Full-Time (40 hrs/wk) 1/2 Time (20-29.5 hrs/wk) 3/4 Time (30-39.5 hrs/wk) 0 thru 4 4 2 3 5 thru 9 5 2.5 3.75 10 thru 14 6 3 4.5 15 thru 19 7 3.5 5.25 ***PPP stands for "per pay period" No vacation leave shall be used by a County employee prior to the time it is accumulated. All vacation leave requests and usage must have advance supervisory authorization before the absence period, unless it is an emergency. Saturdays, Sundays, and legal Holidays occurring during a period in which leave has been granted shall not be charged against accrued leave unless the regular schedule includes these days. Effective 2026 Pay Period 1, no more than 300 accrued vacation leave hours may be carried forward from the pay period in which an employee’s hire date falls to the next pay period after the employee's hire date. It is the employee’s responsibility to monitor their accrued vacation leave balance. Each employee is urged to utilize earned vacation leave each year. Any hours accrued beyond 300 will be forfeited. Payment for the balance of accumulated earned vacation shall be made when an employee separates from County service. In the case where an employee terminates during the probation period, no accrued vacation leave shall be paid. The County Commission may authorize the withholding of payment for accumulated vacation leave when an employee is terminated for conduct involving gross misconduct, violent or destructive actions against personnel or property of Utah County, for unlawful possession of County property, or for other valid reasons if recommended by the employee’s department head and approved by the HR Director and Utah County Civil Division Attorney. In cases where an employee leaves one department of County service and transfers to another, the accrued leave balance shall be transferred to the new department. Vacation Leave Cash Conversion - Career Service and designated appointed employees are eligible to convert accrued leave to cash if all the following conditions are met: Employees may request to convert accrued vacation leave to cash (e.g."cash in") up to 80 hours per year in 40-hour increments. Effective 2026 Pay Period 1, the annual cash-in year runs from the employee's hire-date anniversary to the next hire-date anniversary. Prior to the request, the employee must use an equivalent or greater number of vacation hours during the same cash-in year. The cash-in may not reduce an employee's vacation balance to less than eighty (80) hours. The cash-in request must be made in writing to Human Resources using the approved request form. A returning employee who rehires may start with the accrual rates earned at the time of separation. Vacation leave will not accrue during a period of leave of absence without pay for an entire pay period or greater. Elected officials and/or department heads may deny requests for leave based on workload or operational business needs. Otherwise, leave should be approved/denied on a first-come, first-serve basis. The fact that an employee may have available vacation time does not justify tardiness or unexcused absences. Unscheduled absenteeism and tardiness are grounds for disciplinary action, regardless of the availability of paid leave. Repetitive failure to notify the County of an absence may result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination. Acceptable attendance and punctuality expectations should be determined by each department head. Sick Leave. Sick leave is a privilege afforded to County employees and not an obligation of the County to its employees. Sick leave is provided for merit career service and designated appointed employees as insurance against loss of income when an employee is unable to perform the work because of illness or injury, or in cases of serious illness on the part of a member of an employee's immediate family where the employee's presence is vital. (For purposes of this section, immediate family will be considered to be the employee’s spouse, children, parents, and other related individuals for which the employee has primary caregiver or custodial responsibility). Any absence for an illness that extends beyond accrued sick leave will result in the employee utilizing compensatory time and paid vacation leave until all accrued balances are exhausted, then on leave without pay status as authorized. Job protection during this period will depend on eligibility under the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA). To qualify for sick leave, employees must notify their supervisor no later than one hour before their normal starting time on each day of absence unless circumstances surrounding the absence make such notification impossible. The supervisor should also be kept advised of the employee's progress and the expected date of return to duty. Sick leave with pay for full-time merit career service and designated appointed employees shall accrue at the rate of four (4) hours per pay period for each pay period of service. Half-time (2 hours) and three-quarter time (3 hours). Career service employees shall accrue sick leave on a prorated basis. Accrual of sick leave hours is not limited; however, payout or conversion of sick leave balances shall be limited as described below. Employees who had a balance of more than 720 hours of sick leave on December 31, 2010, have a “reserve” sick leave balance. Hours in excess of 720 at the end of 2010 were placed in the “reserve” balance and assigned a cash value based on the employee’s rate of pay at that time. This reserve balance shall be available for use as sick leave only after the regular sick leave balance has been exhausted. The reserve balance will be paid out at retirement in accordance with Subsection 5-0500.C.12.b. Reserve balances have been established with the conversion of excess hours at the end of 2010. No new reserve balances will be created, and no hours will be added to an existing reserve balance. Employees absent for more than five consecutive days for an FMLA qualifying reason must apply for FMLA leave to run concurrently with sick leave (See FMLA Policy 5-0400). Sick leave shall not accrue during a period of leave of absence without pay for an entire pay period. Department Head or supervisors may require supporting medical documentation for sick leave of three days or more for any single illness. If requested, this documentation must be submitted to the department head or supervisor on the date the employee returns to work. In cases where a chronic or excessive pattern of sick leave usage exists or abuse of sick leave is suspected, a department head or supervisor may request documentation for any or all sick leave absences. Misuse or abuse of sick leave may result in discipline, up to and including termination of employment. In cases where an employee is leaving one department of County service and is transferring to another, accrued leave shall be transferred to the new department. Annual Sick Leave Conversion - Career service and designated appointed employees are eligible to participate. Requests must be made prior to the pay period in which an employee's hire date falls and will remain in effect until changed by the employee. Effective 2026, Pay Period 1, the annual sick leave conversion period will run from each employee's hire date anniversary to the next hire date anniversary. Employees may convert unused sick leave accrued during this period to receive a cash payment at 25%, provided the remaining sick leave balance after conversion is at least 480 hours. An employee separating from service shall not be compensated for any unused sick leave accumulated unless eligible for retirement under Utah Retirement System rules based on years of service, in which case sick leave balances will be paid in accordance with this policy. Sick Leave Payout. Health Reimbursement Arrangement (HRA) The Retirement Health Reimbursement Arrangement (HRA) Plan assists eligible retirees and their dependents with health-related expenses. This plan helps pay for eligible costs such medical, dental, and long-term care premiums on a tax free basis. For additional details, refer to the HRA plan Document Eligible employees must have the cash value of their unused accumulated sick leave contributed to the HRA except for balances less than $1000. Eligibility and Payout Provisions Separating employees who qualify for retirement under URS years of service rules receive an HRA contribution if the value is $1000 or greater. Sick leave payout balances less than $1000 will be paid out in cash. Plan Funding The HRA is funded by contributing the converted value of the participant's unused sick leave upon separation from service at the following tiers. Tier 1 -Hours 0 to 400 are converted at 25% Tier 2 - Hours 401 to 800 are converted at 35% Tier 3 - Hours 801 to 1200 (new cap) are converted at 50% Up to 1,200 unused sick leave hours may qualify for payout. Reserve Sick Leave (Hours Accrued before January 1, 2011) Reserve sick leave is compensated as per 12.b and 12.c Other Provisions Appointed or career service employees elected or appointed to positions not subject to leave accrual policies will have up to 1,000 hours placed in a reserve account at the date of status change. These hours may be reinstated upon returning to merit career service; or paid out under this section if the employee becomes retirement eligible. Employees separated due to a Utah County reduction in force will be paid 25% of up to 1,000 unused sick leave hours. Sick leave use - post-resignation notice. The department head may require supporting medical documentation for any sick leave requested after an employee has provided notification of their intent to resign. Workers’ Compensation. Any employee sustaining an injury or illness arising out of and during employment shall provide prompt notification to his/her supervisor and HR. Failure to report an injury as soon as possible may result in the loss of employee benefits. The employee must complete a "First Report of Injury" form, which is reviewed by their manager and then returned to HR along with the "Workers Compensation Supervisor's Report." Both of these forms can be accessed on the Human Resources Website. If an employee is injured on the job and a workers’ compensation claim has been approved, resulting in an authorized absence from work exceeding three (3) consecutive working days, the following options are available: Taking a leave of absence without pay and retaining the compensation provided by the County's workers’ compensation carrier; or Endorsing the workers’ compensation checks to Utah County and converting to leave accrual to remain on the payroll at full salary until all accrued leave has been exhausted after Option 1 above is automatically implemented. The employee will select one of the options outlined above at the time the official First Report of Injury is completed. Lost Time/Return to Work. Any time off for workers’ compensation leave that qualifies for FMLA leave will be charged against an employee’s FMLA leave entitlement. Transitional return-to-work assignments may be provided for employees with injuries or illnesses that arise out of and during employment, subject to medical restrictions and the availability of such positions. Transitional return-to-work assignments are temporary in nature and is intended to ease the employee back to regular duty within a short period of time. Transitional return to duty is available at the discretion of Utah County and is coordinated through HR. An employee returning to work in a transitional return-to-work assignment may be assigned to work temporarily in any county department. Safety Policies. All employees are expected to familiarize themselves with County and departmental safety policies, procedures, and regulations. If an employee fails to follow safety policies, procedures, and regulations and results in an on-the-job injury or jeopardizes their own safety or that of others, the employee may be subject to disciplinary action. Leave Without Pay. In rare circumstances and at the discretion of the Board of County Commissioners, an employee may be granted leave without pay on the grounds that the leave without pay may provide long-range benefits to the County Government. Upon request of the HR Director and with approval by the Board of County Commissioners, a career service employee may be granted leave without pay for periods longer than two pay periods, not to exceed one year in length. Leave without pay for periods of one full pay period or more will not count toward the accumulation of vacation and sick leave benefits, nor will an employee be entitled to any other benefits provided by Utah County unless FMLA eligible. An exception to this policy may be made in some cases for health insurance, which may be provided to the employee for a very limited period of time at the employee’s expense. Employees receiving temporary total disability benefits through workers’ compensation and employees on an eligible Family and Medical Leave of Absence shall continue to receive Utah County insurance benefits during such leave on the same basis as active employees. Any County employee, at the discretion of their department head, may be granted leave without pay for two pay periods (4) four weeks or less annually. For maternity-related absences, leave may be granted up to (6) weeks. Leave without pay may be granted only when the employee has no paid leave available, except for employees on approved paid disability leave. Employees who exceed these limits or who do not receive department head approval for leave without pay in advance will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment. Unpaid leave protected by law, such as FMLA or military leave, will not count toward the 4-week annual limit. If any County career service employee is elected to a part-time political office, such employee shall be granted a leave of absence without pay for times when monetary compensation is received for service in political office. In the event the elective office is a full-time position, the employee will be terminated from County service upon assuming the duties of the elected position. Short-term leave without pay may be approved by the Human Resource Director and Utah County Civil Division Attorney as a reasonable accommodation under the Americans with Disabilities Act. Only in cases when all paid leave has been exhausted, and the employee is expected to be able to perform the essential functions of his or her job with or without reasonable accommodation in the near future. Such requests will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis. Bereavement Leave. It is the policy of Utah County to grant bereavement leave to all benefited employees who suffer the loss of a member of an immediate or extended family member. Bereavement leave may be granted to make funeral arrangements, settle family affairs, attend the funeral or memorial service, and for bereavement. The maximum time off for funeral leave is as follows: Up to 40 hours for immediate family, which includes spouse, child, brother, sister, parent, and step-relatives of the same order. Up to 24 hours for other family members include grandparent, grandparent-in-law, grandchild, mother-in-law, father-in-law, uncle, aunt, nephew, niece, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, and step-relatives of the same order. If additional time is needed, an employee may request to use vacation or leave without pay if no vacation leave is available. In the event of a family member's death, while an employee is on vacation or sick leave, the employee's time off may be extended by the amount of bereavement leave permitted by this policy. Documentation of death, such as a published obituary, funeral program, or death certificate, may be required. Miscarriage or stillbirth County employees are entitled to up to five workdays of paid bereavement leave per occurrence when a pregnancy ends in miscarriage or stillbirth. An employee who is the spouse or partner of an employee who experiences a miscarriage or stillbirth is eligible for up to five workdays of paid bereavement leave per occurrence. In the event of death in any of these instances, the employee will be paid bereavement leave at his/her regular base pay for scheduled work time missed. Employees having part-time career service status are eligible for bereavement leave on a prorated basis. If additional time off beyond this allowance is required, compensatory time or vacation leave must be requested. Time off under this policy will not count as time worked in the computation of overtime for that week or pay period. If the employee wishes to take bereavement leave for a friend or relative not listed above, vacation leave, or leave without pay may be requested and granted at the discretion of the department head. Military Leave. Consistent with applicable state and federal statutes, employees who are members of any branch of the United States military reserve or the Utah National Guard shall be granted a leave of absence for the purpose of fulfilling their military duties. Except as provided herein, leave for military absence shall be leave without pay. Upon request and documentation on the employee’s timesheet, an employee may elect to utilize vacation leave to account for any portion of military absence. Career service and appointed employees may be granted military leave without loss of pay or use of vacation leave for up to 120 hours per calendar year to fulfill military training obligations. Employees filling part-time career service positions may be granted paid military leave on a prorated basis. An employee wishing to be paid for a military absence under this provision shall make a written application to his/her department head before taking leave. The application shall be made as soon as practicable and shall include a copy of the employee’s military orders. The department head shall forward the request to the Director of Human Resources prior to the employee’s leave of absence. Failure to submit the request for paid military leave to HR prior to the leave being taken shall result in the leave being unpaid, or vacation leave being used. Jury/Witness Duty. Every employee shall be entitled to a leave of absence whenever, in obedience to a subpoena or direction by proper authority, he/she appears as a witness or a juror for the federal government, State of Utah, or political subdivision thereof. The time spent traveling to and from juror or witness duty is considered to be part of an approved absence. During such period of required absence, the employee shall be eligible to receive his/her full County compensation and will not be entitled to pay or fee received from services as a witness or juror while on County time. Any income earned and received from jury or witness duty while on County time shall be turned over to the Auditor's Department for reimbursement to Utah County unless the employee elects to use accrued vacation or compensatory time. Absence due to participation in private litigation or due to a subpoena served by a party other than the federal government, state of Utah or political subdivision thereof to testify as an individual, not in an official capacity, shall require the use of vacation leave or leave without pay. Absence due to being required to testify in private litigation in the employee’s official capacity as a County employee shall be compensated in accordance with sub-paragraph #2 above. Paid Parental and Postpartum Leave: Eligibility Employees must be employed with Utah County government for at least six (6) consecutive months before the leave begins. The policy applies to benefitted employees only. Policy Provisions Parental Leave An eligible employee who is a parent of a child may take up to two (2) weeks of paid parental leave following the birth or adoption of his or her child. An employee must take parental leave within the first three months following the birth or adoption of his or her child. Parental Leave can be used consecutively or intermittently. Postpartum Leave An eligible employee who gave birth to a child may take up to four (4) weeks of additional paid parental leave (in addition to the leave authorized in subsection (2)(a) following the birth of the child. An employee must take postpartum leave consecutively beginning immediately upon the birth of the child. Coordination with Other Leave Paid parental and postpartum leave will run concurrently with Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) leave, where applicable. An employee may supplement parental and postpartum leave with accrued vacation, sick leave, or compensatory time for additional paid time off, subject to approval. Pay and Benefits An employee on paid parental or postpartum leave will continue to receive his or her regular wages and maintain all benefits, including health insurance, retirement contributions, and leave accruals. An employee who needs paid leave beyond parental or postpartum leave may utilize vacation, sick leave, or compensatory time will receive wages and benefits subject to approval and in accordance with HR Policy 5-0500 at the conclusion of his or her parental leave time. Request and Approval Process An employee must submit a Parental Leave Request Form to his or her department supervisor and Human Resources at least thirty (30) days in advance of the anticipated start date, where possible. In cases of unanticipated circumstances, such as an early birth, an employee should notify his or her supervisor and HR as soon as practicable that the employee is requesting parental leave. Job Protection. Any employee on parental or postpartum leave will have his or her position held or will be placed in an equivalent position upon his or her return, consistent with FMLA and other applicable laws. Paid Holidays: Holidays are provided for County employees as a break in the regular work routine and to allow them to commemorate special federal and state historical events and activities. The following days are defined as legal holidays upon which all offices of the County Government shall be closed, except as otherwise provided by law: New Year’s Day (1st of January) Martin Luther King, Jr. Day (3rd Monday of January) President’s Day (3rd Monday of February) Memorial Day (last Monday in May) Juneteenth (19th of June, may be observed on Monday) Independence Day (4th of July) Pioneer Day (24th of July) Labor Day (1st Monday in September) Veteran’s Day (11th of November) Thanksgiving Day (4th Thursday of November) Day after Thanksgiving (Friday immediately after Thanksgiving) Christmas Eve (24th of December) Christmas (25th of December) Personal Preference Day (day selected by the employee) When any of the above holidays falls on a Sunday, the following Monday shall be the holiday. If any of the above holidays (except the Personal Preference Day) falls on a Saturday, the preceding Friday shall be considered the holiday; however, the County Offices will remain open for business as required by law. Should a holiday occur while an employee is on vacation, the employee will not be charged with vacation on the day of the holiday. Personal Preference is awarded upon hire and each year on January 1st. Any Personal Preference hours unused within the calendar year are forfeited. The Personal Preference Day may be taken as a holiday on any one day selected by the employee during the calendar year, requested in the same manner as required for vacation leave. Any employee required by the department head to work on an authorized holiday shall be granted the option of (1) taking the same number of hours off on a future work day or (2) being paid for the holiday hours and the number of hours worked at their regular hourly rate of pay. Option (1) will be added to compensatory time for accounting purposes. Any amount of time granted as compensatory time or as paid time to an employee for holidays will not be included in calculating overtime. Holiday benefits for less than full-time employees: Non-benefited Part-time, temporary, seasonal, provisional, and emergency employees shall not be eligible for paid holidays. A career service part-time employee who has been duly authorized to work twenty (.50) or thirty (.75) hours a week or more is eligible to receive holiday pay on a prorated basis. A career service employee must work or be on authorized paid leave their last scheduled working day before and the next working day following the holiday to qualify for holiday pay. Employees on leave without pay status for more than half of their regularly scheduled hours (including holiday pay) in a pay period are not eligible for holiday pay. Leave Donations. Utah County employees may, based on the following employee donation guidelines, donate vacation leave to another County employee, typically in the same County department. When authorized by the donor and recipient’s department head, employees outside the same department may also donate leave. This authorization for outside department donations is based on the recipient’s department being able to cover the extra salary the recipient will receive beyond the department’s budgeted salary expenses. Donated vacation leave is converted to a dollar amount at the donor’s hourly rate and pay, and then the dollar amount is converted into sick leave at the recipient’s hourly rate of pay. Leave donation requests must be in writing, identify the number of hours the donor wishes to donate, list the recipient, and be signed by the donor. HR calculates all requests and then processes all leave balance changes. Once processed, the donor cannot modify or withdraw his/her donation request. Any donated leave the recipient does not use, remains in the recipient’s sick leave balance. Recipient’s qualifications to receive leave donations: The employee must be on an extended absence for a catastrophic reason, usually covered by FMLA and/or Worker's Compensation. The employee must exhaust his/her own leave benefits before the absence is expected to end. Request restrictions: The donation request must be received in HR before the recipient returns to work. HR must receive the request by the Friday before payday. HR will not process leave donation requests providing more sick leave than needed to cover the recipient’s absence or beyond the date the recipient will likely be separated from employment (e.g. approval and receipt of long-term disability insurance). Donated leave can only be used after the request is received, approved, and processed (i.e. not retroactive to previous pay periods), unless authorized by the Director of Human Resources. Compensatory Time for FLSA Exempt Merit Employees FLSA Exempt employees do not accrue compensatory time unless approved by their Department Head. Any compensatory time shall accrue at straight time. Each Department Head shall adopt a written internal policy (approved by HR) regarding compensatory time for FLSA-exempt employees. If permitted by the Department Head, compensatory time must be used within 1 year of being earned or will be forfeited (use or lose). This compensatory time for FLSA Exempt Merit employees has no cash value and will not be paid out under any circumstances. Compensatory time is not transferable to another department or elected office unless approved by the new Department Director or Elected Official. In rare circumstances, the Director of HR may make exceptions to leave accrual rates in consultation with the department head to facilitate competitive recruitment. For these purposes, HR may establish a rate based on prior relevant experience and service in a comparable public merit system. Administrative Leave. Investigative Administrative Leave. The Office of Human Resources or the department head (or designee) may place an employee on administrative leave pending the outcome of an investigation. General Administrative Leave. In consultation with each other, the Department Head or the HR Director may utilize administrative leave when determined to be in the best interest of Utah County. With the approval of the HR Director, a department head may grant administrative leave of up to eighty (80) hours of recruitment incentive leave to a new hire who is an eligible employee. This leave must be used within a year of the new hire's start date. Granted Administrative leave has no cash value and is not eligible for payout. N. Short-Term Disability 1. In cases where the employee has a qualifying disability and has elected Short Term Disability coverage, they may, after 7 days, choose one of the following options. a. Taking a leave of absence without pay and retaining the short-term disability payment provided by the County's disability carrier or b. Endorsing the short-term disability check to Utah County and converting to leave accrual to remain on the payroll at full salary until all accrued leave has been exhausted after Option 1 above is automatically implemented. III. REFERENCES A. Policy 4-8000 Progressive Discipline B. Policy 4-4000 Standards of Conduct


===== Policy 5-0600 Position Classification =====
Utah County Government Human Resources Policy Date Approved: Pending Section# 5 Section Title Compensation and Benefits Policy# 0600 Policy Title Position Classification 5-0600 Position Classification PURPOSE: To set forth a position classification process. I. POLICY Classification Methods. The Office of Human Resource Management shall be responsible for the preparation, maintenance, and revision of position classifications for all Career Service positions in Utah County Government. This plan shall be consistent with federal, state, and local laws including, but not limited to, the County Personnel Management Act. Classification of positions shall be determined by considering: essential job duties and responsibilities; minimum education, experience, and other requirements; and any relevant differentiating job elements. The Director shall assign the Career Service positions held by every County employee to a position classification in the staffing plan. II. PROCEDURES Allocation to the Pay Plan Each position classification in the classification plan shall be assigned a salary step range in the pay plan giving due consideration to market comparability, internal equity, and recruitment equity, and recruitment indicators. Such market research and internal analysis will be carried out by the Office of Human Resources. As benefits are an integral part of total compensation, they will be considered in any market study. The Director may cooperate with other entities in conducting the position classification market salary study. The Direcotor shall determine the number of steps in a range to be used for each position classification. The number of steps used need not be uniform for all position classifications or for position status types in the plan. Job Descriptions. The Office of Human Resources shall develop and maintain job description specifications to cover every Career Service position in the staffing plan. Job descriptions may be written to cover a number of related positions providing that the duties are similar and the same qualifications can generally be required for performance. Job descriptions will be used for: 1) recruitment announcements, although special requirements may be added to the announcement by the Human Resource Director where necessary; 2) comparison for purposes of salary market survey; 3) determination of allocation to the pay plan; and 4) preparation of specific job performance standards to be used in employee performance appraisals. Position Review. At least annually, each County department is responsible to review all job descriptions utilized within the department and report to the Office of Human Resources significant differences between the work actually assigned and the description specifications. A department head should report changes in assigned position duties and responsibilities so that the position can be audited and the description adjusted and evaluated as necessary. Additionally, an employee who feels that his or her job description does not adequately reflect the major responsibilities and duties actually assigned should bring this to the attention of his/her supervisor. A position classification audit request is to be submitted to the Office of Human Resources for review of all significant position changes or upon a supervisor’s receipt of an employee’s official audit request. Position classification classification audit request forms for use in requesting position audits are available from the Human Resource Department. If any supervisor fails to submit or forward an employee’s audit request, an employee may initiate the audit process by submitting the audit request form directly to the Office of Human Resources for consideration, notating the date the original request was made to his/her supervisor. On receipt of a position classification audit request form, the Office of Human Resource Management may conduct a position classification audit if necessary to determine if a salary step range adjustment and/or position reclassification is warranted. When a position is reclassified to a position classification assigned a higher salary step range, at the discretion of the Director, the incumbent may be assigned to the reclassified position if all minimum requirements are met, or promotional recruitment procedures may be followed to fill the reclassified position. When a position is reclassified to a position classification assigned a lower salary step range and the position’s assigned duties have not changed, the employee’s position classification will reflect the lower classification and the employee will retain his/her current salary step as follows. If the employee’s current salary step is within the range of the assigned lower salary step range, the employee may be incrementally awarded annual merit salary step increases to the top step of the lower salary step range. However, if the employee’s current salary step is above the assigned lower salary step range, the employee’s salary will be frozen at that rate until the lower salary step range reaches the employee’s current salary rate. When a position is reclassified to a position classification assigned a lower salary step range and the position's assigned duties have changed, the demotion compensation procedure defined in the County Pay Plan for actions other than position reclassification applies. If a Career Service tenure employee disagrees with the result of a position classification audit, the employee shall within ten (10) working days appeal the results of the position classification audit to the Human Resource Director. The decision of the Human Resource Director on position classification audits including position classifications and/or salary step range assignments are final. The result of a position classification audit is not reviewable by the Career Service Council. Staffing Plan An annual staffing plan will be developed and maintained by the Office of Human Resources. The staffing plan will be provided to the county budget office as requested and as needed in the creation of the annual budget. Any changes to the staffing plan will be provided to the county budget office as soon as practicable No person shall be placed or retained on a department payroll unless the person occupies a position listed in an approved staffing plan, except time- limited positions (seasonal/part-time, etc.) which shall be included in the budget but are not tracked in the staffing plan. Departments may request changes to the staffing plan at any time when justified by opportunities for cost reduction or improved services. Increases in the total projected cost resulting from modifications in the staffing plan must be reviewed by the office responsible for County finances and by the County Commission. III. REFERENCES Policy 5-0100 Pay Plan 6 Information Technology