                                       Lehi city
Who is filling out this report?
Brittney Harris
Planner
bharris@lehi-ut.gov
385-201-2516

Provide the following information for your moderate-income housing element:


Link to adoption resolution or ordinance:
https://www.lehi-ut.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/10/Ordinance-adopting-the-Moderate-Income-
Housing-Element-of-the-General-Plan-05.28.24.pdf


Link to general plan, moderate income housing element:
https://www.lehi-ut.gov/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/Moderate-Income-Housing-Element.pdf

You will not be able to go back in the survey after making this selection. Please make
sure you have entered all information up to this point. TYPE OF REPORT Please choose
from the following options. Nearly all communities are in year 2-5 of their reporting.
We are in YEAR 2-5 of reporting on the implementation plan tasks and timelines we reported on
last year.




                                                                                             427
We are in YEAR 2-5 of reporting on the implementation plan
tasks and timelines we reported on last year.

2-5 YEAR REPORTING The following section is for communities in YEARS 2-5 of reporting. If
the implementation plan has been updated or amended, progress made must be documented in
this section of the report. You will enter the following information in this section: 1) Shapefiles
and data related to zoning, entitled units, and accessory dwelling units (ADUs) 2) Your
community's MIH strategies (including changes to strategies - if applicable) 3) Feedback and
recommendation regarding the MIH program


ZONING MAP
Zoning Data Statute requires that counties and municipalities provide their current zoning map.
This document should reflect current adopted ordinances.
Please be aware that zoning data submitted will be shared with the Utah Geospatial
Resource Center.


Shapefiles (.shp) must be uploaded using this link. After uploading the file, please type
"Uploaded" in the field below. If a shapefile is not available, please provide a link to maps
and tables in the field below. If you have any questions, please contact mih@utah.gov.
Uploaded

When did the last zoning map or text amendment occur?
29- May-25

ENTITLED UNITS The following questions ask about entitled units. Entitled units are units that
are legally allowed to be built under current zoning, existing development agreement, or other
legal mechanism, (e.g., overlay zone). This data is collected to capture current built or zoned
conditions. Please report entitled unit data as of May 1, 2025. Do not include any parcels or
units that are only planned or in the process of being rezoned as residential. Example: if a
parcel is zoned greenbelt on May 1, 2025 and a rezone application is in process, do not count it
in this data. If some parcels can’t be developed due to barriers like geography, setbacks, or
lack of infrastructure, you can explain these issues in the barriers or narrative sections of your
report.


Provide a count of entitled residential units (as defined above) that have NOT received a
building permit.
7,332




                                                                                                428
Less the units, parcels, lots, or developments reported in the previous question, provide
a count of vacant parcels, lots, or developments that include an overlay zone and the
number of residential units that could be built on said parcel, lot, or development that
have NOT pulled a building permit.
zero (we have no overlay zones)

Less the units parcels, lots, or developments reported in the previous two questions,
provide a count of vacant parcels, lots, or developments that are currently zoned
residential (single family, townhome, multi family, etc) and the number of residential units
that could be built on said parcel, lot, or development that have NOT pulled a building
permit.
2,733

From the counts reported above, provide a count of the entitled residential units which
have received will serve letters from utilities or an equivalent that shows that all utilities
and infrastructure (i.e. roads, water, sewer, power, phone, gas) are complete for the units,
parcels, or lots.
1970



Describe any barriers to developing these units that have been experienced. These
barriers could include infrastructure, public concerns, geographic constraints, etc.
Providing detail here allows us to share the experiences and needs of communities to
support the data reported above.
Utilities have been a setback. 2,488 units have been held up as the developer drilled two wells,
built storage tanks, and other utility infrastructure. Utility setbacks usually only take a few years
to solve and the construction of them is put on the developer with reimbursement if it will serve
more than just their development.

Provide any notes or explanations for the data entered above (e.g., upcoming
developments, clarifying data, context, etc.).
2,288 units are about to have "will serve" utility capacity within the next few weeks to months.


ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS

The following questions ask about the number of Accessory Dwelling Units (internal, external,
detached) in your county or municipality as of the report submission date.


How does the county or municipality track known "for-rent" Accessory Dwelling Units?
(select one)
Other
Applications for ADUs (planning application separate from a business license)




                                                                                                   429
Total known number of Accessory Dwelling Units recorded as of the report submission
date:
201
Total number of building permits issued to construct an ADU in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025:
8

Total number of business licenses or permits to rent an ADU issued in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025:
18



Total number of other types of permits or license issued for an ADU in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025 (if applicable, please
provide the count and type of permit or license issued)
none




                                                                                       430
REPORTING ON STRATEGY PROGRESS
The following questions ask you to provide detailed progress on the moderate-income housing
strategies between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025. A county or municipality must report on
at least the minimum strategy requirements to comply in the subsequent report.

1. Select a moderate income housing strategy from Utah Code that the county or
municipality has included in its moderate-income housing element. (For the list of
strategies, visit jobs.utah.gov/mihreporting or refer to Utah Code Section 10-9a-403 for
municipalities and Section 17-27a-403 for counties)
U
X
G
V
E
W
O

2. Reference the Implementation Plan for this strategy and list the timelines and
benchmarks that were planned to be complete between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025.
You may include actions taken before the 12-month reporting period in this report as an
ongoing action if it: i) clearly supports the moderate income housing strategy from the
initial report (e.g., previously adopted ordinance, approved a land use application, made an
investment, or approved an agreement or financing); ii) the new report shows the action is
still helpful to making progress on the strategy.
U
Strategy 1: Update the Lehi Thanksgiving Point Frontrunner Station Area Plan tomeet
requirements for certification.• Work with MAG to understand what updates are needed and
make the updates.TimelineSummer 2024- Updates complete on the Station Area Plan. Strategy
2: Continue work on the North Lehi, Hospital and 2100 North and theDowntown Area Plans•
Work with consultants on individual projects.• Keep moving forward towards adoption on all
three plans.• Submit the North Lehi and the Hospital and 2100 North Station Area Plans forfinal
approval.TimelineAugust 2023 and 2024- weekly meetings and work on the station area
plan.Fall 2024- Begin the process of approval for the North Lehi and Hospital and 2100
NorthStation Area PlansSpring 2025- Begin the process of approval for the Downtown Lehi
Station Area Plan

X
Strategy 1: Adopt a housing and transit reinvestment zone around the LehiFrontrunner Station•
City Council adopt the HTRZ zone.• Work on a Development Agreement with the HTRZ and the
developers.TimelineSeptember 2023- Adoption of the HTRZ zone by City CouncilAugust 2024-
Adoption of the Development Agreement with the HTRZ and developers2024-2025 –
Implementation of the HTRZ and evaluation of the resulting developments




                                                                                            431
G
Strategy 1: Review the approved Mixed-Use projects, number of units, and the remaining
density• Create a map of proposed and approved mixed-use projects with the number ofunits.
And how many units per acre each one was.• Evaluate the units left.TimelineSpring and
Summer 2024- create map of all proposed and approved mixed-use projectsFall 2024- review
numbers with the Planning Commission and City Council in worksessions. And evaluate the
success of the new units in the Mixed-Use zone.
V
Strategy 1: Evaluate the potential to add more duplexes, twin homes, and othermultifamily
dwellings in the downtown area as part of the Downtown Area Plan• Consultants evaluate
density available for the downtown area and benefits ofdeveloping with smaller infill
development.• Consider design requirements for new construction in the downtown area
thatmaintain the historic look and feel.TimelineSummer 2024- Analysis of the Downtown Area
Plan density and developmentFall 2024- Recommendation of Design Requirements for new
construction in historicdowntown area.

E
Strategy 1: Evaluate the impact of allowing Detached Accessory Dwelling Units(ADUs) on 1/3
acre lots• Prepare a map of all of the detached ADUs approved, and the size of the lot• Report
to the City Council on the number of detached ADUs on 1/3 acre lots• Conduct a survey to
understand why people have not submitted for more detachedADUsTimelineSummer 2024-
Analysis of the existing detached ADUsFall 2024-Survey to Lehi Residents about detached
ADUsWinter 2024-2025- Presentation to the Planning Commission and City Council on the
number of ADUs

W
Strategy 1: Work with the development community to create a proposal to amend the
Development Code to create an affordable housing overlay zone• Create a draft for an
attainable housing overlay zone that allows a Development Agreement between the City and
the Developer • Work with the Planning Commission and City Council to get it approved
Timeline Spring and Summer 2024-Work with different departments and development
community to draft proposed wording for Development Code Amendment Fall 2024- Submit
the proposed Development Code Amendment for approval

O
Strategy 1: Continue to participate in the Utah Valley Home Consortium• Review projects and
vote on how to use funds available by the Home Consortium Timeline Strategy 1: Encourage
developers, builders and residents in Lehi City to apply for the funds available through the
Utah Valley Home Consortium • Create information sheets to hand out encouraging people to
apply • Encourage those who might qualify to apply Timeline March 2024-Review and
approve projects that were submitted for the Home Consortium funds. Fall 2024- Put together
an information sheet on the Home Consortium and how to apply for funds.




                                                                                             432
3. Describe each action taken between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025 to implement the
tasks listed in Question 2. Include how the actions taken support implementation of the
strategy.
U
September 18, 2024 the Lehi Thanksgiving Point Station Area Plan was certified at a MAG SAP
Policy Committee Meeting.June 25, 2025 the North Lehi Station Area Plan was certified at a
MAG SAP policy committee meeting.The State Street SAP has a plan document that was
created at the end of 2024 and beginning of 2025. The final review of the document is
happening during the summer of 2025. The 2100 North and Hospital TOD SAP has a plan
document that was finished in the fall of 2024. Review took place in 2025. We are waiting for the
consultants to make some final edits before taking it through the approval process.

X
The Development Agreement was not adopted in August 2024. Work has been done to
coordinate with the developers to get the Development Agreement in place that will outline the
disbursement of funds from the HTRZ.

G
A map was created and presented to the City Council.

V
Our consultants for the Downtown Revitalization Plan are still working on finalizing the plan so
exact recommendations have not been finalized. But work analyzing the existing units and best
place for the density was done as part of the plan process.

E
Very few detached ADUs were approved in the last year. City Council directed staff to amend
the Development Code to allow Detached ADUs on truly third acre lots (was 15,000 square feet
before now going down to 14,375).

W
Several meetings were held with the Planning Commission and then work sessions with the City
Council to discuss the proposed amendment. The proposal has been reworked many
times.Went to Planning Commission for a vote on December 5, 2024 Went to City Council work
sessions on May 6, 2025 and July 22, 2025

O
March 25, 2025 participated in the Home Consortium funding meeting voting on projects to use
funds on.




                                                                                              433
4.       Describe each land use regulation or land use decision made between August 1,
2024 and July 31, 2025 to implement this strategy. Include how the regulations or
decisions support efforts to implement the strategy.
U
April 8, 2025- City Council adopted an ordinance approving the North Lehi Station Area Plan
April 22, 2025- City Council adopted an ordinance approving the Hospital and 2100 North
Station Area PlanBoth of these decisions adopted the Station Area Plans as official documents
for the City.

X
No land use decisions were made during this time.

G
none

V
none

E
City Council directed Staff to amend the Code down to 14,375 square feet. Went to Planning
Commission July 10, 2025 and will go to City Council on August 26, 2025.

W
No new ordinances have been adopted but a lot of direction has been provided by both the
Planning Commission and City Council.

O
June 10, 2025 adopted an interlocal agreement to continue to participate in the Home
Consortium.




5.       What barriers were encountered by the county or municipality between August 1,
2024 and July 31, 2025 while implementing this strategy? Documenting barriers does
not exempt the community from reporting plan progress The minimum required number
of strategies must advance for compliance, regardless of the barriers faced. If no barriers
were experienced, write "None."
U
Getting consultants to finish work, especially on the 2100 North Hospital Station Area Plan, to
get it ready for certification.




                                                                                             434
X
The developers have been slow to respond and work with in getting the Development
Agreement in place and also their updated Area Plan that will allow for development in the area.

G
There really have not been a lot of mixed-use projects approved even with the available units.
There have been a few proposals that have fallen through or been really slow going through the
process. This might partly be because they are more small developers looking into it. Our
mixed-use still does not allow enough units to be very interesting to large developers.

V
The consultants have taken longer than scheduled due to employee turn around. The scope of
the project has also expanded which has lowered the time they can work specifically on type of
units and design requirements.

E
Not a lot of applications for detached ADUs.

W
A lot of opinions. Everyone wants the overlay to be something different and accomplish different
purposes. It has taken a long time to get people even somewhat on board and on the same
page.

O
none




6.      Describe how the market has responded to the implementation of the strategy
(e.g., units permitted, units entitled, deed restrictions, rezones, households displaced during
redevelopment, changes in rents, etc.).
U
There has been no change to development applications in these areas.

X
No market response as the HTRZ is in place but the ability to develop it only recently was
allowed with the recording of the new Thanksgiving Point Area Plan.

G
A few applications, but not a lot has moved forward. Only a few smaller projects with less than
10 units.




                                                                                                  435
V
No market response because the revitalization plan has not been adopted yet.

E
Not a lot of applications though at least one person who was interested in a detached ADU will
be able to with the small reduction in square footage.

W
The developers who have looked at it have had serious concerns with if the project would
pencil. We have tried to make some adjustments to help with that.

O
Less applications then normal with all of the rising prices, high interest rates and uncertainty.


7.     Links to supporting documentation (Optional)
U

X

G

V

E

W

O

       Attachment to supporting documentation (Optional)
U

X

G

V

E

W

O




                                                                                                    436
FEEDBACK & RECOMMENDATIONS
What types of support would be helpful to your community as you implement the
moderate income housing strategies? (Select all that apply)
Case studies for strategies,Staff resources,Reporting technical assistance


Describe any recommendations on how the state can support the county or municipality
in implementing the moderate income housing strategies? (If none, please write N/A)
This year we focused so much on the one goal to create an overlay zone for affordability, it feels
like it would be the most impactful but it left very little staff time for the other goals. It would be
nice if that counts. This is taking a lot more staff time and resources than anticipated.


If your community has a fixed guideway transit station or is within 1/2 mile of a rail station, and is
required to adopt the Station Area Plan strategy, please ensure that you do the following:
1) Submit your approved station area plan to your applicable metropolitan planning organization
(Wasatch Front Regional Council or Mountainland Association of Governments). If they
determine that your station area plan is compliant with state code, they will provide your
community a written certification of compliance.
2) Provide us (HCD) with the certification of compliance, either by going back to the optional
attachment page earlier in this report OR emailing it to mih@utah.gov.
For more information on this requirement, see Utah Code 10-9a-403.1 Section (10).


Clicking the "Next" button at the bottom of the form will submit your report.




                                                                                                    437
Lehi - amended response in consultation with Housing & Community Development staff

Strategy G
For Strategy G, it was the same presentation. Nothing new has really come in. We are in the
monitoring and seeing the progress of allowing more residential in areas designated as Mixed
Use and as TOD. We have not had any new approvals in those areas within the last year. I
guess this really gets at the question of monitoring. We made those changes a few years ago
and are waiting to see how the market really responds. There are some applications and some
movement but it really has not had as strong of a response as we thought it would. And maybe
that is because the density is limited.

Strategy W
Strategy W is not yet a goal of affordable home ownership for 80% the AMI because we do not
think the market will provide that yet. Also, the desire for the city to provide 80% is not there yet.
This is a step in the direction of providing for sale product at a lower price than what is currently
available. Though not yet directly targeted at 80% AMI, it should help right now by opening up
more rentals at lower costs by moving people into homes that are currently renting. And of
course the long term hope is that this changes the cities perspective on moderate income
housing and the desire increases to find ways to support 80% AMI. This really falls more under
the new strategies but we did not update for it to fall under that, for next reporting year it will be
under the homeownership strategy.




                                                                                                   438
