                               ORDINANCE NO. 2012-09


    AN ORDINANCE CHANGING MID VALE CITY'S LAND USE APPEAL
    AUTHORITY FROM A FIVE MEMBER BOARD TO AN APPEALS AND
 VARIANCE HEARING OFFICER THROUGH REPEALING AND RESTATING
  CHAPTER 17-5 AND REVISING LANGUAGE IN CHAPTERS 17-1, 17-2, 17-3
   AND 17-4 TO BE CONSISTENT WITH THIS CHANGE AND STATE LAW;
  ALSO PROVIDING A SAVING CLAUSE AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE FOR
                         THE ORDINANCE.

        WHEREAS, Section 10-9a-701 Utah Code Annotated requires and permits a
city, by ordinance, to establish an appeal authority; and

       WHEREAS, this appeal authority shall hear and decide requests for variances
from the terms of the land use ordinances and shall hear and decide appeals from
decisions applying the land use ordinances; and

       WHEREAS, Chapter 17-5 of the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance (Title 17)
created a five member Board of Adjustment to serve as the primary appeal authority; and

       WHEREAS, Chapter 17-3 of the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance (Title 17)
provided for the Planning Commission and City Council to hear and decide appeals
regarding applications for administrative conditional use permits, conditional use permits,
and small scale master plan developments; and

       WHEREAS, hearing and deciding variances and appeals requires an expertise in
land use principles and conducting quasi-judicial hearings, as well as having persons who
are neutral and unbiased; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on February 23,
2011, to review this issue, with such meeting being preceded by notice through
publication in the Salt Lake Tribune and Deseret News on February 9, 2011, and the
Planning Commission forwarded a recommendation on such to the City Council on
February 23, 2011; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on
July 10, 2012, which meeting was preceded by notice through publication in the Salt
Lake Tribune and Deseret News on June 26, 2012; and

         WHEREAS, the City Council has taken into consideration citizen testimony,
advice of City Staff, and the Planning Commission recommendation, and has determined
that this text amendment is appropriate and within the best interests in protecting and
promoting the health, safety, and welfare of Midvale City.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale
City, Utah as follows:
        Section 1. Chapter 17-5 of the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance (Title 17) shall
 be repealed and restated as included in ATTACHMENT A of this document.

       Section 2. The following chapters and sections of the Midvale City Zoning
Ordinance (Title 17) are hereby amended as included in ATTACHMENT B of this
document.

        Section 3. If any part of this ordinance or the applications thereof to any person
or circumstances shall, for any reason, be adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction
to be unconstitutional or invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair or invalidate the
remainder of this ordinance or the application thereof to other persons and circumstances,
but shall be confined to its operation to the section, subdivision, sentence or part of the
section and the persons and circumstances directly involved in the controversy in which
such judgment shall have been rendered. It is hereby declared to be the intent of the City
Council that this section would have been adopted if such invalid section, provisions,
subdivision, sentence or part of a section or application had not been included.

           Section 4. This ordinance shall be effective upon publication of a summary
thereof.


           PASSED AND APPROVED this         IDC4. day of                   , 2012.



                                                                           KA/ViL
                                                                         B. Seghini, Mayor


ATTEST:




Roti Andrea:son, MMC
City Recorder

Date of first publication:

Voting by City Council                 "Aye"          "Nay"
       Colleen Costello
       Paul Glover
       Robert Hale
       Paul Hunt
       Wayne Sharp




                                               2                   Ordinance No. 2012-09
                                        ATTACHMENT A

                                            Chapter 17-5
                                         APPEAL AUTHORITY

 Sections:
    17-5-1      Establishment of Appeal Authority
    17-5-2      Powers and duties
    17-5-3      Appointment, qualifications, term.
    17-5-4      Organization.


17-5-1 Establishment of Appeal Authority.


Pursuant to the Utah Code, Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act, Midvale
City is required to establish one or more appeal authorities to hear and decide variances and
appeals regarding land use ordinances. Based on this, the City has created an Appeals and
Variance Hearing Officer ("Hearing Officer") position to fulfill these duties.


17-5-2 Powers and Duties.


The Hearing Officer shall act in a quasi-judicial manner, and shall serve as a final arbiter of issues
involving the interpretation or application of land use ordinances. The powers and duties of the
Hearing Officer shall be as follows:


        To hear and decide appeals from decisions applying the provisions of this Title; and


   B.   To hear and decide requests for variances from the terms of the zoning ordinance,
pursuant to the standards of Section 17-5-4.


17-5-3 Appointment, Qualifications and Term.


The appointment of the Hearing Officer shall be made in the following manner:


  A.    The appointment shall be recommended by the City Attorney and Community and
Economic Development Director for appointment by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the
City Council.


  B.    The Hearing Officer shall be appointed for a two year term, and, may thereafter, be
appointed for additional two year terms.


  C.    The Hearing Officer shall have legal training and experience, with qualifications to
conduct administrative or quasi-judicial hearings regarding land use, land development, and land
use regulatory codes.

                                                     3                      Ordinance No. 2012-09
     D.  In the case of a vacancy in the Hearing Officer position, a replacement shall be promptly
 appointed to fill the unexpired term of the previous Hearing Officer. This appointment
                                                                                        shall be
 made in the same manner and with the same required qualifications as stated above.


     E.    The Mayor may appoint a Hearing Officer pro tempore when necessitated by the
absence, unavailability, incapacity or disqualification of the regularly appointed Hearing
                                                                                             Officer.
These appointments shall be made in the same manner and the individuals shall have
                                                                                             the same
required qualifications as stated above.


17-5-4 Organization.


The Hearing Officer shall organize and implement the powers and duties of the position
                                                                                              as
follows:


A.         The Hearing Officer shall adopt reasonable policies and procedures in accordance
                                                                                                   with
City Ordinances and State Law to govern the functioning of the position and the conduct
                                                                                              of
meetings. Such policies and procedures shall be approved by the City Council.


B.         The Hearing Officer shall act in a quasi-judicial manner and respect due process from
                                                                                                     all
parties.


C.         Public hearings and public meetings are not required, provided notice is given to all
affected parties of any proceedings or process where the issue is to be heard and evidence
                                                                                                   is to
be gathered.


D.         The Hearing Officer shall hold meetings as needed to consider applications within the
powers and duties defined in Section 17-5-2 above.


E.         Decisions made by the Hearing Officer shall become effective upon the execution of
written findings of fact and conclusions of law on the matter in question.




                                                   4                         Ordinance No. 2012-09
                                         ATTACHMENT B

                                                                                Text Additions: Text
                                                                                Text Deletions: Text
 17-1-4 How to use this title.

    E. Variances/Rezones. If the applicant cannot meet the standards described in
                                                                                           subsection B
 of this section, the applicant should determine whether there are alternative developm
                                                                                            ent options
 or any exceptions to the general rules that may accommodate the project. If the
                                                                                     project does not
 meet standards and other development alternatives are not possible, then there
                                                                                     are two methods
 available to attempt to vary the standards: the variance process and a petition for
                                                                                        rezone.
        1. The variance process is generally used for existing development, or developm
                                                                                               ent of an
        existing, validly created lot. The beard-ef-adfus4eneri4 appeal authority shall issue
                                                                                              a variance
        upon the applicant's demonstration that the application meets each variance standard
       detailed in Chapter 12 : 5.
       2.   A petition for rezone is a request to change the development standards for the property
       in question. The process for requesting a rezone is detailed in Section 17-3-1.
                                                                                          Rezones are
       discretionary legislative acts.


17-2-1 "A" definitions.


"Apiary" means the assembly of one or more colonies of bees at a single location.


"Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer" means an independent contractor appointed
                                                                                       by the City
to fill the position of an appeal authority with the powers and duties as designated by
                                                                                        Chapter 17-



"Appeal authority" means the person, board, commission, agency, or other body
                                                                                  designated by
ordinance to decide an appeal of a decision of a land use application or a variance


17-2-2 "B" definitions.


"Block" means a tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets
                                                                                   and public parks,
cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shore lines of water ways, or city boundary lines,
                                                                                       as shown on
an official plat.




designated by Chapter 17 5


Bond, landscape See "Landscape bond."




                                                  5                         Ordinance No. 2012-09
                                       Chapter 17-3
                             ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
 Sections:
    17-3-1 Amendments to the zoning code or map.
    17-3-2 Reviewing bodies.
    17-3-3 Allowed use review.
    17-3-4 Conditional use review.
    17-3-5 Large scale master planned development (MPD).
    17-3-6 Small scale master planned development (MPD).
    17-3-7 Sign permit review.
    17-3-8 Telecommunications.
    17-3-9 Notice.
    17-3-10 Termination of projects for inaction.
    17-3-11   Penalties.
    17-3-12 Licensing.
    17-3-13 Variance process.
    17-3 13 14 Appeals and reconsideration process.
    17-3-14 15 Constitutional takings—Review and appeal.
    17-3-1-5 16 Notice matrix.




17-3-2 Reviewing bodies.


The community and economic development department (CEDD), the board
                                                                                  of adjustment (BOA),
the appeal authority (AA), the planning commission (PC), and the city
                                                                          council (CC) each have the
following primary authority to review applications for compliance with
                                                                         this title:

                       Table 17-3-2
                   Reviewing Bodies


Type of Review                        CEDD BOA       PC CC
                                            AA

Administrative Lot Line Adjustment X
Appeal                                      X
Allowed Use                           X
Appeal                                      X
Business License                      X
Conditional Use                       X              X
Appeal                                     X             X
Conditional Use-Administrative      X
Appeal                                     X         X

                                                 6                           Ordinance No. 2012-09
 MPD
 Large Scale                                  X               X     X
 Large Scale MPD Appeal                               X
 Small Scale                                  X               X
 Small Scale MPD Appeal                               X             X
 Nal-Gem-plyi-ng-Structure                    X       X
 Plat Amendment                               X               X     X
 Subdivision/Condo                            X               X     X
 Title 17/Map Amendment                       X               X     X
 Variance                                             X



 A.    No building permit shall be valid for any structure unless the plans for the proposed
                                                                                                   structure
 have been submitted to and have been approved by the community and economic
                                                                                              development
department.


 B.   No new use shall be valid on any property unless the use is allowed in the zone
                                                                                               or unless a
conditional use permit has been properly issued for the use.


C.    No subdivision map shall be recorded unless all conditions of subdivision approval
                                                                                                  have
been satisfied or otherwise secured.


D.    The community and economic development department initially reviews all complete
applications requiring action by the planning commission and recommends approval
                                                                                               or rejection
to the planning commission, according to the type of application filed. The communi
                                                                              ty and
economic development department may process one application at a time per property
                                                                                   or may
process coordinated applications simultaneously.


E.    The community and economic development department issues permits for allowed
                                                                                                  uses,
administrative lot line adjustments, administrative conditional uses, and building
                                                                                          permits and
issues business licenses.


F.    The planning commission reviews, and forwards a recommendation to the city council
regarding, each application for subdivision approval, subdivision plat amendment,
                                                                            initial zoning,
rezoning, condominium record of survey, master planned developments, and amendm
                                                                                  ents to this
title.


G.    The boar-cl-ef-a-cliustmerft appeal authority hears all requests for variances, special
             PRO€14162         EIT-ROFIGGFR-B-1314P               and zoning land use appeals (except
                B-10-60-14€114-40-R3l-41-SE                   41-111€   ••   •               _•. ,,•s



H.    No review shall occur until all applicable fees are paid.


                                                          7                        Ordinance No. 2012-09
17-3-4 Conditional use review.


       Appeals. Appeals must be pursuant to Section 17-3 13.14.




17-3-13 Variance Process.


Any person or entity desiring a waiver or modification of the requirem
                                                                       ents of the zoning ordinance
as applied to a parcel of property that he owns, leases, or in which he
                                                                        holds some other beneficial
interest may apply for a variance from the terms of the zoning ordinanc
                                                                         e.

A. Variance Criteria.

          Standards. A variance may only be granted if all of the following conditio
                                                                                    ns are met:

          a.  Literal enforcement of the zoning ordinance would cause an unreaso
                                                                                     nable
          hardship for the applicant that is not necessary to carry out the general
                                                                                    purpose of the
          zoning ordinance;


          b.    There are special circumstances attached to the property that do not
                                                                                           generally
         apply to other properties in the same district;


         c.     Granting the variance is essential to the enjoyment of a substantial property
                                                                                                     right
         possessed by other property in the same district;


         d.     The variance will not substantially affect the general plan and will not
                                                                                           be contrary to
         the public interest; and


         e.     The spirit of the zoning ordinance is observed and substantial justice
                                                                                           done.

     2. Unreasonable Hardship. In determining whether or not enforcement
                                                                             of the zoning
     ordinance would cause unreasonable hardship, the appeal authority
                                                                        may not find an
     unreasonable hardship if the hardship is self-imposed or economic. In
                                                                           addition, the appeal
     authority may not find an unreasonable hardship unless the applicant
                                                                          proves that the
     alleged hardship:


         a.    Is located on or associated with the property for which the variance is
                                                                                           sought;

         b.  Comes from circumstances peculiar to the property, not from conditio
                                                                                 ns that are
         general to the neighborhood. Special circumstances must:


                    Relate to the hardship complained of; and


               ii. Deprive the property of privileges granted to other properties in the
                                                                                            same
               district.


                                                   8                        Ordinance No. 2012-09
        3.  The applicant shall bear the burden of proving that all of the conditio
                                                                                    ns justifying a
        variance have been met.

        4.    The appeal authority may not grant a use variance.


              Variances run with the land.


        6. Additional Requirements. In granting a variance, the appeal authorit
                                                                                       y may impose
       additional requirements on the applicant that will:


             a. Mitigate any harmful affects of the variance; or


                  Serve the purpose of the standard or requirement that is waived
                                                                                       or modified.

 B.    Process. The appeal authority shall review all applications for varianc
                                                                                    e requests according
 to the following procedure:

       1.    Variance requests must be submitted to the community and econom
                                                                                       ic development
       department. The applicant must pay all appropriate fees and must
                                                                             file a complete
       application, including an explanation of how all variance criteria has
                                                                              been met.

       2.  Notice/Posting. Upon receipt of a complete application, the community
                                                                                  and economic
       development department shall set a meeting date with the appeal authorit
                                                                                y and shall
       provide reasonable notice as provided in Section 17-3-16.

       3.    The appeal authority shall consider the variance application in accorda
                                                                                        nce with Section
       17-3-13 A


      4.     The appeal authority shall prepare written findings and a final decision
                                                                                         on the variance
       request within thirty working days of the appeal authority meeting.

      5.     Appeal of Final Decision. The applicant or any person aggrieved by
                                                                                      the final decision
      on the variance request may appeal to a court of competent jurisdict
                                                                                  ion within thirty days of
      the written decision. The decision shall stand, and those affected by
                                                                                  the decision may act in
      reliance on it, unless and until a court enters an interlocutory or final
                                                                                  order modifying or
      suspending the decision.




17 343 14 Appeals and reconsideration process.
  -




The applicant, staff, or any other person with standing to challenge
                                                                        a decision administering or
interpreting this title may appeal the decision as follows:




                                                   9                         Ordinance No. 2012-09
    A.    Zoning Code Interpretation and Administration. All city decisions which interpre
                                                                                           t or
 administer this title may be appealed to the beard-ef-adfustment appeal authority
                                                                                     within ten days
 of final action by filing notice of appeal with the community and economic
                                                                             development
 department, except that:




          B{419+1€.31404:140f-a4FAIR
                                                                       RE,-a1914€4,4-Fil-L

                         - •e - ..e•e••   e-   e e•• - • e -   ••".•




         eemmissiers-final-aetion,


   B.     Beard-ef-AdjustmentAppeal Authority. The district court hears appeals of
                                                                                              decisions of the
board of                    appeal authority that are filed within thirty days of the final beard written
decision.


           Standing to Appeal. The following persons have standing to appeal a final
                                                                                                action:

         1.      Any person who submitted written comment or testified on a proposal before
                                                                                                        the
         community and economic development department or planning commission;


         2.      The owner of any property within three hundred feet of the boundary of the
                                                                                                       subject
         site;


         3.      Any city official, board or commission having jurisdiction over the matter;
                                                                                                  and

                 The owner of the subject property.


   D.   Form of Appeals. Appeals must be filed with the community and econom
                                                                                       ic development
department and must be by letter or petition, with the name, address, and
                                                                                telephone number of
the petitioner; his or her relationship to the project or subject property; and
                                                                                 a comprehensive
statement of the reasons for the appeal, including the specific provisions
                                                                              of law that are alleged to
be violated by the action taken.


  E.     Written Findings Required. The 49-14E4-1,41€-DAG                               appeal authority shall
prepare detailed written:


                 Findings of fact, which explain the circumstances of the body's decision;
                                                                                                 and



                                                         10                          Ordinance No. 2012-09
               Conclusions of law in support of its decision.


         Action on Appeals to a City Body the Appeal Authority. The appeal authority shall comply
 with the following standards for all appeals te-a-Gity-bacty under this title:


        1. The city appeal authority, in consultation with the appellant, shall set a date for
                                                                                                  the
        appeal;


              The Gity appeal authority shall notify the owner of the appeal date:


        3. The -           e f:e •    •s. •-     appeal authority shall consider the written appeal,
        final action and all other pertinent information from the appellant and the community
                                                                                                  and
        economic development department;


              The   Dee-v-R                 appeal authority may affirm, reverse, or affirm in part
       and reverse in part any properly appealed decision or may remand the matter with
       directions for specific areas of review or clarification. Appellate review is limited to
       consideration of only those matters raised in the written appeal and the staff's response
                                                                                                        s
       thereto, unless the body appeal authority, by motion, enlarges the scope of the appeal
                                                                                                       to
       accept information on other matters; and


       5. Staff The appeal authority shall prepare written findings for review and approval
                                                                                                  within
       thirty working days of the appellate decision.


  G.     City Council Call-Up. Within fifteen calendar days of final action on any project, the
                                                                                                  city
council, on its own motion, may call up for review any final action taken by the planning
commission. The city recorder shall give prompt notice of the call-up to the chairman
                                                                                      of the
planning commission together with the date set by the council for consideration of the
                                                                                        merits of
the matter. The recorder shall also provide notice as required by Section 17 3 9. In calling
                                                                                     -   -   a
matter up, the council may limit the scope of the hearing to certain issues.


  H.    Notice. Notice of all appeals or call-ups shall be given taki to all affected parties of any
proceedings or process where the issue is to be heard and evidence is to be gathered
                                                                                             .

             Id-t4-b1tsh no-th e                        -   -• e..   e e   e •- •-_ •e •

       R-a41-1-140-Ge-Ref-81-61-164            R-F143



       2. By mailing courtesy notice seven days prior to the hearing to all parties who requeste
                                                                                                            d




                                                        11                       Ordinance No. 2012-09
    I.  Stay of Approval Pending Review of Appeal. Upon call-up or appeal, any approval granted
 by the planning commission or staff will be suspended until the reviewing body has taken final
 action on the appeal.


    J.   Appeal From the City Council. The applicant or any person aggrieved by city action on the
 project may appeal from the final action of the 90ar-g-ej-aCH
                                                 e                     - • OF
                                                               USIFFIe-141 - -6-      appeal authority
 to a court of competent jurisdiction. The decision shall stand, and those affected by the decision
 may act in reliance on it, unless and until a court enters an interlocutory or final order modifying
                                                                                                           or
 suspending the decision.


    K.   Finality of Action. Final action occurs when the deciding body has adopted and executed
 written findings of fact and conclusions of law on the matter in question.




 17-3-14 15 Constitutional takings—Review and appeal.


   To promote the protection of private property rights and to prevent the physical taking or
exaction of private property without just compensation, the city council and all commissions
                                                                                                   and
boards shall adhere to the following before authorizing the seizure or exaction of property:


   A.    Takings Review Procedure. Prior to any proposed action to exact or seize property, the
city attorney shall review the proposed action to determine if a constitutional taking requiring
                                                                                                    "just
compensation" would occur. The city attorney shall review all such matters pursuant to the
guidelines established in subsection B of this section. Upon identifying a possible constitutio
                                                                                                     nal
taking, the city attorney shall, in a confidential, protected writing, inform the council, commissio
                                                                                                      n
or board of the possible consequences of its action. This opinion shall be advisory only. No
liability shall be attributed to the city for failure to follow the recommendation of the city attorney.


   B.    Takings Guidelines. The city attorney shall review whether the action constitutes a
constitutional taking under the Fifth or Fourteenth Amendments to the Constitution of the United
States, or under Article I, Section 22 of the Utah Constitution. The city attorney shall determine
whether the proposed action bears an essential nexus to a legitimate governmental interest
                                                                                               and
whether the action is roughly proportionate and reasonably related to the legitimate governme
                                                                                                ntal
interest. The city attorney shall also determine whether the action deprives the private property
owner of all reasonable use of the property. These guidelines are advisory only and shall not
expand nor limit the scope of the city's liability for a constitutional taking.


  C. Appeal. Any owner of private property who believes that his/her property is proposed to
be "taken" by an otherwise final action of the city may appeal the city's decision to the takin-g-s
appeal--beard-appeal authority within thirty days after the decision is made. The appeal must
                                                                                                   be
filed in writing with the city recorder. The takings-appeal-bear-i21-appeal authority shall hear and


                                                    12                             Ordinance No. 2012-09
    approve and remand or reject the appeal within fourteen calendar days after
                                                                                      the appeal is filed.
    The takings-appeal-board-appeal authority, with advice from the city attorney
                                                                                      , shall review the
    appeal pursuant to the guidelines in subsection B of this section. The decision
                                                                                         of the takings
    appeal-board-appeal authority shall be in writing and a copy given to the
                                                                                appellant and to the city
    council, commission or board that took the initial action. The to-Icings-appeal-
                                                                                     board-appeal
    authority's rejection of an appeal constitutes exhaustion of administrative
                                                                                 remedies rendering the
    matter suitable for appeal to a court of competent jurisdiction.


                           es-Aooeal-lioare                                                                   Rus-aosea4-90a-r-42
                4414-3431404-F1144:1                                      e    •-       e e -e .
    H-1914E43-1-1:30af-C
                                                                              e • -   2 - 2 2 -




    17-346 16 Notice matrix.



                                                                                                                                          Notice
                                       Action                                                             Notice                          Type
    Conditional Use Review                                                            To owners within 300 ft., prior to               Mailing
                                                                                      the hearing before the planning
                                                                                      commission.
Zoning and Rezoning                                                                   To owners of the property and       Posted;
                                                                                      owners within 300 ft. prior to each published
                                                                                      hearing before the planning         Mailing
                                                                                      commission and city council.
Zoning Ordinance Amendments                                                           Prior to each hearing before the                 Published
                                                                                      planning commission and city
                                                                                      council.
General Plan Amendments                                                               Prior to each hearing before the                 Published
                                                                                      planning commission and city
                                                                                      council.
Master Planned Developments                                                           To owners within 300 ft. prior to                Posted;
                                                                                      the hearing before the planning                  mailing
                                                                                      commission.
    ee - - -     e •• - _ •    '' . • • • e   - e •• •• - - e •
'
                                                                  - • e   -           Te-all-paFtles-whe-reGeived                      Mailing
C-0-1414Gi4-Call--142

                                                                                      e . • • - e _ e •• ••   . .   2 • •• - -   • e

                                                                                      prier-te-the-date-set-fer-the
                                                                                      appeal-or-Gati-up-meeting,



                                                                               13                                   Ordinance No. 2012-09
 Variance Requests, , 1..• .e• e •• •e ....- "ee                                                                     1
                                                         —    e•..   To owners within 300 ft. prior to     Posted on 1
 -•e       te-..
       '            .   !..   ee   Ae   —   ••-                      the hearing meeting before the        property;
                                                                     boarci-of-adiustrnent appeal          mailing
                                                                     authority.
                                                                       t. .*. •   . * e   e   .•   •.


                                                                     astionv
Appeals                                                              To all affected parties               Mailing
Lot Line Adjustments:                                                Need consent letters, as
Between two lots without a plat amendment                            described on the CEDD
                                                                     Application form, from owners
                                                                     involved.
                                                                     If application is turned down, then
                                                                     applicant will be notified of right
                                                                     to appeal to planning commission
                                                                     and of right to file a formal plat
                                                                     amendment application.

Preliminary and Final Subdivision Plat Applications                  To owners within 300 ft. prior to     Posted;
                                                                     the hearing before the planning       mailing
                                                                     commission and city council.

Condominium Applications (Record of Survey Plats)                    To owners within 300 ft. prior to     Posted;
                                                                     the hearing before the planning       mailing
                                                                     commission and city council.



                                                      Chapter 17-4
                                                  PLANNING COMMISSION
Sections:
   17-4-1          Establishment of the commission.
   17-4-2      Appointment—Term.
   17-4-3      Powers and duties.
   17-4-4      Organization.
   1745        Powers on appeal.




17-4-5-Rowers-on-appeal,




                                                             14                               Ordinance No. 2012-09
4770 S. 5600 W.
P.O. BOX 704005
WEST VALLEY CITY, UTAH 84170                      t1jr ,*a ftCakrJtibunr             MEDLAgpte Deseret News
                                                                                     A   1,, e. 5.•                  0 n, ■ •
FED.TAX I.D.# 87-0217663                                                                                     C. •                  www DESLIeL1h5.1.Coy.




                                              PROOF OF PUBLICATION                                                               CUSTOMER'S COPY

                               CUSTOMER NAME AND ADDRESS                                                ACCOUNT NUMBER                                    DATE
                     MIDVALE CITY,
                                                                                                                    9001344979                     7/25/2012
                     655 W CENTER ST.

                     MIDVALE             UT 84047


      MI             Witi*                             ACCOUNT NAME
                                                       MIDVALE CITY,

       lMIIIIIIFrArEMMr"'                                                ADORDER#                / INVOICE NUMBER
                                8015677207                             0000810518                 /

       111111111111.1—                     ocii           SCHEDULEmOilia
                                                                                                                                        I
                                 Start   07/24/2012                    End    07/24/2012



                                            Ord No 2012-09

                                      PTION
                                                                                                                                                        MIDVALE CITY
                                                                                                                                                        PUBLIC NOME
          MIDVALE CITY PUBLIC NOTICE Notice is hereby given that during a City Council meeting on
                                                                                                                                                Notice is hereby given that
                                                                                                                                                during a City Council meeting
                                                              SIZE                                                                              on June 19, 2012, the
                                                                                                                                                Midvale City Council adopted
                                                                                                                                                Ordinance No. 201 2-09 An
                                                                                                                                                Ordinance changing Midvale
                                            22        Lines                   1.00             COLUMN                                           City's Land Use Appeal Au-
                                                                                                                                                thority from a Five Member
                                                                                                                                                Board to an Appeals and
                                TIMES                                                                 RATE                                      Variance Hearing Officer
                                                                                                                                                through Repealing and Re-
                                                                                                                                                stating Chapter 17-5 and
                                                                                                                                                Revising Language in Chap-
                                  4                                                                                                             ters 17-1, 17-2, 17-3, and
                                                                                                                                                 17-4 to be consistent with the
                                                                                                                                                change and state law.

                 it       MISC. CHARGES                                                    AD CHARGES
                                                                                                                                                tort L Andreason, MMC
                                                                                                                                                City Recorder
                                                                                                                                                810318                UPAXLP




                                                                                         . TOTAL COS I
                                                                                                  41.96

                                                              AFFIDAVIT OF PUBLICATION

   AS NEWSPAPER AGENCY COMPANY, LLC dba MEDIAONE OF UTAH LEGAL BOOKER, I CERTIFY THAT THE ATTACHED ADVERTISEMENT OF
   MIDVALE CITY PUBLIC NOTICE Notice is hereby given that during a City Council meeting on June 19,2012, the Midvale City Council adopted Ordinance
   No. 2012-09 A FOR !MIDVALE CITY, WAS PUBLISHED BY THE NEWSPAPER AGENCY COMPANY, LLC dba MEDIAONE OF UTAH, AGENT FOR THE
   SALT LAKE TRIBUNE AND DESERET NEWS, DAILY NEWSPAPERS PRINTED IN THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE WITH GENERAL CIRCULATION IN UTAH,
   AND PUBLISHED IN SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY IN THE STATE OF UTAH. NOTICE IS ALSO POSTED ON UTAHLEGALS.COM ON THE SAME
   DAY AS THE FIRST NEWSPAPER PUBLICATION DATE AND REMAINS ON UTAHLEGALS.COM INDEFINATELY.


   PUBLISHED ON            Start 07/24/2012                            End 07/24/2012                                                VIRGINIA CRAFT
                                                                                                                                             State of Utah
                                                                                                                                  Commission a 581469
                                                                                                                                 My Commission Expires
   SIGNATURE                                                                                                                        January-U. 2014


   DATE


                                      THIS IS NOT A STATEMENT BUT A "PROOF OF PUBLICATION"
                                               PLEASE PAY FROM BILLING STATEMENT
