ORDINANCE NO. 2012-18
AN ORDINANCE CREATING
CHAPTER 17-7-16 “PUBLIC FACILITIES OVERLAY ZONE” OF THE
MIDVALE CITY MUNICIPAL CODE; ALSO PROVIDING A SAVING CLAUSE
AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE FOR THE ORDINANCE.

WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 10-6-12 Utah Code Annotated 1953 as amended, the
City has authority to adopt the Midvale City Municipal Code; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah, held a public hearing regarding the
addition of Chapter 17-7-16 of the Midvale City Municipal Code on November 27, 2012; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah, find it appropriate to adopt such an
ordinance to ensure adequate advertisement opportunities for businesses within the overall
Bingham Junction zone.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah
as follows:

Section 1. The Municipal Code which sets forth the laws and policies within Midvale
City, is hereby amended as follows:

See Attachment “A”

Section 2. If any part of this ordinance or the applications thereof to any person or
circumstances shall, for any reason, be adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
unconstitutional or invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair or invalidate the remainder of
this ordinance or the application thereof to other persons and circumstances, but shall be
confined to its operation to the section, subdivision, sentence or part of the section and the
persons and circumstances directly involved in the controversy in which such judgment shall
have been rendered. It is hereby declared to be the intent of the City Council that this section
would have been adopted if such invalid section, provisions, subdivision, sentence or part of a
section or application had not been included.

Section 3. This ordinance shall be effective upon date of first publication. |
PASSED AND APPROVED this 2 7YAday of Al0yvé mB, 2012. |
[) |
Ay STAT C\y LY MKC WV

7 JoA ny B. Seghini, Maya |
SF WG, |
4H WLI, 10 Fy Voting: “Aye” “Nay” |
Om _ by Colleen Costello a |
ATTEST: *PoraTEe® Paul Glover ea |
Robert Hale - |

. Paul Hunt —
Wayne Sharp a :
Ror} Andreason, MMC |

City Recorder

Date of first publication: |)@C__U ZO\T- |

Chapter 17-7-16
PUBLIC FACILITIES OVERLAY ZONE
Sections:
17-7-16.1 Purpose.
17-7-16.2 Uses.
17-7-16.3 Review process.
17-7-16.4 Criteria and required findings.
17-7-16.5 Development agreement.
17-7-16.6 Specific review criteria for certain public facility uses.
17-7-16.7 Modification to use or plan.
17-7-16.8 Related provisions.
17-7-16.1 Purpose.
The purpose of the Public Facilities Overlay Zone is to provide for locations and appropriate standards for
a range of public uses conducted by governmental and specified agencies. These uses are operated for
the benefit of the community, and provide basic services and essential support services for the
community. Because of the nature of these uses, they are generally not identified with any specific zone
district, having the need to locate in areas that best serve the community. The overlay zone allows the
City Council, through its legislative discretion, to provide for areas in which to locate Public Facilities to
best support the community in a cost effective and efficient manner. It is the intent of this overlay to
protect neighboring private uses from incompatible public uses and ensure the impacts associated with
the public uses are appropriately mitigated.
17-7-16.2 Uses.
The following uses may be allowed in a Public Facilities Overlay Zone. These uses must be conducted
by a governmental or specified agency. If a use is not specifically designated, it is prohibited.
A. Government Buildings
B. Fire Station
C. Police Station
D. Park/Playground
E. Recreation and Community Center
F. Library
G. Educational Institution
H. Cemetery
17-7-16.3 Review Process.
The review process for all applications intended to utilize the Public Facilities Overlay Zone shall follow
the process outlined in Section 17-3-1 Amendments to the zoning code or map. The application shall
include a binding site plan, which shall be reviewed in conjunction with the proposed use. The Public
a:

Facilities Overlay rezone is contingent upon approval of the site plan. The site plan shall include the
information required in Section 17-3-3 E Site Plan Review.

17-7-16.4 Criteria/Required Findings.

The planning commission may recommend and the city council may grant approval of a Public Facilities
Overlay zoning designation only if it determines, in written findings, the application has demonstrated the
following:

A. There is a demonstrated need for the public facility within the community at large and it is not
contrary to the public interest.

B. The public facility is consistent with the goals and policies of the general plan, and applicable
ordinances of the city where feasible.

C. The public facility is located, planned and developed in such a manner that it is not inconsistent
with the health, safety or general welfare of persons residing or working in the city. This includes,
but is not limited to the following:

1. The generation of noise, noxious or offensive emissions, or other nuisances which may be
injurious or detrimental to the surrounding area.

2. The availability of public services to support the public facility, including utilities; vehicular,
pedestrian and public transit systems; police; fire; education; and social and health services.

3. The adequacy of landscaping, screening and buffering, building setbacks, parking, open
space, or other development characteristics necessary to mitigate the impact of the public
facility on neighboring properties.

4. Proposed public facilities which exceed the bulk, height, density, or other use standards in
the underlying zone must demonstrate such variances are essential to the function or
operation of such facility. The development standards of the underlying zone and adjacent
development shall be utilized where feasible.

D. The public facility complies with the specific review criteria for the use contained herein.

17-7-16.5 Development Agreement
The city council may find that a proposed public facility requires a development agreement to ensure the
use and facility continue to operate in the manner consistent with the development approval. In this
instance, a development agreement, in a form satisfactory to the city attorney and city council, wherein
the property owner and service provider agree to comply with the provisions of the development approval,
including any required on and off-site public improvements associated with the development, shall be
made part of the development approval process.
17-7-16.6 Specific Review Criteria for Certain Public Facility Uses
In addition to the foregoing, the following criteria must be satisfied in order to approve an application for
each of the following uses:

A. [add at later date]
17-7-16.7 Modification to Use or Plan
Modifications to a public facility shall be reviewed by the community and economic development
department. If the community and economic development department determines the proposed

2

modification is major, the major modification will require reapplication and reconsideration consistent with
the process and requirements of this chapter.
17-7-16.8 Related Provisions.
A. Title 5, Licensing.
B. Title 16, Subdivisions.
C. Chapter 17-2, Definitions
D. Chapter 17-3, Administration and Enforcement
3
