                                   ORDINANCE NO. 2012-16

            AN ORDINANCE OF MIDVALE CITY PERTAINING TO NOISE REGULATION
            AND RESTRICTED HOURS.


       WHEREAS, Salt Lake Valley Health Department has adopted a regulation concerning
noise within Salt Lake County.

       WHEREAS, Salt Lake Valley Health Department has omitted certain, previously enforced,
noise regulation and exemptions.

       WHEREAS, Midvale City wishes to retain components of the previously enforced
regulation and exemptions.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Midvale City Council that Chapter
8.01A of the Code of Ordinances of Midvale City pertaining to noise is amended to read as
follows:

                                            SECTION I.
       That Chapter 8.01A Noise Control is enacted to read as follows:

8.01A.010. Regulations, Adopted by Reference; Copies on File. The provisions of the Salt
       Lake Valley Health Department, Health Regulation 21 entitled "Community Noise
       Pollution Control," as currently adopted by the Salt Lake Valley Health Department
       under authority of Utah Code Annotated section 26A-1-114, as amended, are hereby
       incorporated in their entirety by reference. Copies of such regulation shall be on file with
       the city recorder and available for examination by any person. (1999 Code)

8.01A.020. Section left intentionally blank.

8.01A.030. General Prohibition of Noise. In addition to the specific prohibitions outlined in
      this ordinance, it shall be unlawful for any person to willfully make or continue, or cause
      to be made or continued any loud, unreasonable, unnecessary, or unusual noise that:
           1. Disturbs the health or safety of a reasonable person of normal sensitivity within
              any receiving property; or
          2. Creates a public nuisance defined as an act or condition created by a person who
              unlawfully commits or omits to perform any duty, which either:
                    a. Seriously injures, or endangers the health, or safety or any person;
                    b. Seriously renders a person insecure in life; or
                    c. Endangers the environment.
       Additionally, it shall be unlawful for any person to willfully make or continue, or cause
       to be made or continued, any noise that is plainly audible at a Type A or Type B
       receiving property between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.

8.01A.040. Indoors.
          1. No person shall emit, nor shall any person cause, allow, permit, or fail to control
             the emission of any stationary noise source so as to exceed the maximum sound
             pressure level set forth in Table 1 when measured indoors of a multi-dwelling unit
             building or multi-use property. Measurements shall not be taken in areas which
             receive only casual noise in no-habitable areas such as hallways, closets, and
             bathrooms.
          2. The transmission of vibrations that cannot be measured with a sound level meter
             are not restricted by this ordinance.

8.01A.050. Specific Noise Restrictions.
    A. Bells and Clocks. No person shall sound, operate, or permit the sounding or operation
       of an electronically amplified signal from any bell, chime or clock between the hours of
       10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. for longer than 5 minutes in any one hour so as to cause a noise
       nuisance.

   B. Fixed Sirens, Whistles, and Horns. No person shall sound, nor shall any person cause,
      allow, permit, or fail to control the sounding of any whistle, horn, or siren used as a
      signal for commencing or suspending work, or for any other purpose so as to cause a
      noise nuisance, except when used as a signal of an emergency or imminent danger.

   C. Hawkers and Peddlers. No person shall offer for sale, distribute, solicit, or sell anything
      by shouting or outcry within 300 feet of a Type A or Type B property use. The provisions
      of this section shall not be construed to prohibit the selling by shouting or outcry of
      merchandise, food, and beverages at licensed sporting events, parades, fairs, circuses, and
      other similar public entertainment events.

    D. Motor Vehicles.
       1.    Horns and Other Signaling Devices. No person shall sound any horn or audible
             signaling device on any motor vehicle, except to prevent or avoid an accident.
             Any advertisement or solicitation which encourages or requests a person to honk
             their horn in violation of this ordinance is expressly prohibited.

       2.      Motorsports. No person shall allow or conduct any sponsored or sanctioned
               motorsport activities in such a manner that emits a sound pressure level which
               exceeds the maximum allowable sound pressure levels set forth in Table 1 when
               measured at a Type A or Type B property use.

                                                 2
       3.      Standing Motor Vehicles. No person shall operate, nor shall any person cause,
               allow, permit, or fail to control the operation of any motor vehicle to remain in an
               idling mode or condition for:
                 a. A consecutive period of 5 minutes or longer;
                 b. Any period of time while the vehicle is left unattended; or
                 c. So as to cause a noise nuisance.

8.01A.060. Powered Model Mechanical Devices. No person shall fly a model aircraft,
      whether tethered or not, or fire or operate a model rocket vehicle or other similar noise-
      producing device;
               a.     Between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. within 300 feet of a Type
                      A or Type B property use; or
                  a. So as to cause a noise nuisance.

8.01A.070. Shouting and Loud Conversations. No person shall vocalize at levels which
      amount to a plainly audible noise within 100 feet of a Type A or Type B property use, for
      a duration longer than ten seconds.

8.01A.080. Snowmobiles. No person shall operate, nor shall any person cause, allow, permit or
      fail to control the operation of any snowmobile;
                   a. Between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
                   b. Within 300 feet of a Type A or Type B property use, or so as to cause a
                       noise nuisance;
                   c. Within the public or private right-of-way or on public property unless
                       specifically designated for use by a federal, state, or local government
                       entity for such vehicle; or
                   d. That is not in good mechanical working condition so as to emit excessive
                       or unusual sounds.

8.01A.090. Sporting Equipment. No person shall use, nor shall any person cause, allow,
      permit, or fail to control the impulsive sound from any toy or piece of sporting equipment
      between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., if such usage creates a plainly audible
       noise at a Type A or Type B property use so as to cause a noise nuisance.

8.01A.100. Sporting Ramps. No person shall build or use nor shall any person cause, allow, or
      permit anyone to build or allow anyone to use any skateboard, roller blade, bicycle, or
       snowboard ramp or half-pipe or similar configuration within 300 feet of a Type A or
       Type B property use, except within facilities that have been designated for such use by a
        government entity.



                                                  3
8.01A.110. Swimming Pool Equipment. No person shall operate or maintain, nor shall any
      person cause, allow, permit, or fail to control the operation or maintenance of any
       swimming pool equipment used to operate a swimming pool or spa, including but not
      limited to the heater, pump, filter, water conditioner, disinfection equipment, hydrojets or
      other accessory equipment that exceeds the maximum allowable sound pressure levels set
      forth in Table 1 when measured at a Type A or Type B property use so as to cause a noise
      nuisance.

8.01A.120. Water Features. No person shall install, operate, or maintain, nor shall any person
       cause, allow, permit, or fail to control the installation, operation, or maintenance of any
       man-made water feature or equipment associated with any man-made water feature
       including, but not limited to ponds, waterfalls, fountains, recirculating pumps, aerators, or
       other similar features or equipment so as to:
                   a. Be plainly audible at a Type A or Type B property use between the hours
                       of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. so as to cause a noise nuisance.

8.01A.130. Music and Sound Amplification. With the exception of declaring an emergency,
      no person shall operate, play, nor shall any person cause, allow, permit, or fail to control
      the operation or playing of any personal or commercial sound amplification, or sound
      reproduction equipment, or musical instruments, or similar devices in such a manner:
                  a. So as to exceed the maximum allowable sound pressure levels set forth in
                     Table 1 when measured at a Type A or Type B property use;
                  b. Which emits a plainly audible noise at a Type A or Type B property use
                     between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
                  c. That causes a crowd noise nuisance at a Type A or Type B property use
                     between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;

8.01A.140. Exemptions.

     A. Agricultural Practices. Noise resulting from the use of farm equipment or off-highway
        implement of husbandry for recognized and acceptable agricultural practices shall be
        exempt from this ordinance provided that:
           1. All reasonable efforts have been made to minimize the impact on the
              community;
           2. The equipment is operating within manufacturer's specifications;
           3. All noise control systems are in constant use, in good working order, and in
               compliance with this ordinance;
           4. All equipment is in good mechanical working condition so as to not emit
               excessive or unusual sounds;
           5. The equipment is used between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.; and


                                                  4
           6. This part shall not be construed to prohibit noises resulting from agricultural
               equipment between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. within 300 feet of a
               Type A or Type B property use that result from harvesting a crop or other similar
               activity within an agriculturally zoned area.

    B. Human Voice. Noise resulting from the un-amplified human voice shall be exempt
       from this ordinance, provided the person is not in a public entertainment venue and is
       not shouting.

    C. Military Operations. Noise resulting from the emission of sound in the performance of
       military operations, exclusive of travel by individuals to or from military duty shall be
       exempt from this ordinance.

    D. Railway and Interstate Highways. Noise resulting from railways and interstate
       highway traffic noise, when operating in accordance with all local, state and federal laws
       shall be exempt from this ordinance.

    E. Road Sweepers. Noise resulting from road sweepers when operated for the purposes of
       cleaning highways or any other public right-of-way shall be exempt from this ordinance.

    F. Sporting Events. Noise resulting from activities directly related to the field of play
       (e.g. whistles, shouting plays, revving engines) during a sporting contest including, but
       not limited to football, soccer, baseball, drag racing, or similar event that are sanctioned
       by the Utah High School Activities Association (UHSAA), National Collegiate Athletic
       Association (NCAA), other professional organization, or organized sport association
       shall be exempt from this ordinance. Events continuing after curfew will be exempted
       provided the event began sufficiently early that it would be reasonably expected that
       95% of a similar class of events would have been completed by 10:00 p.m. This part
       shall not apply to any amplified sound sources, fireworks, or the maximum sound
       pressure level restrictions set forth in Table 1.

    G. Swimming and Spa Pools. Noise resulting from the splashing of water caused by
        reasonable swimming associated activities within a spa or swimming pool between the
        hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. shall be exempt from this ordinance.

8.01A.150. Interpretation of Ordinance. In interpreting and applying the provisions of this
       chapter, the requirements contained herein are declared to be in the minimum required for
       the purposes set forth. Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever the provisions of this
       chapter conflict with any other ordinances pertaining to the same subject. The more
       restrictive provisions shall prevail. (1999 Code)



                                                 5
8.01A.160. Violation of Ordinance. Violation of any noise ordinance shall constitute a class B
      misdemeanor, as defined by the Utah Code Annotated. Each day such violation is
      committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense, and shall be
      punishable as such. (1999 Code)




                                           Table 1
              Maximum Permissible Sound Pressure Levels (L eg) Table


          Receiving               Between 10:00 p.m.               Between 7:00 a.m.
        Property Use*                and 7:00 a.m.                  and 10:00 p.m.


                              5 dBA above ambient sound       10 dBA above ambient sound
            T ype A
                                 not to exceed 50 dBA             not to exceed 60 dBA

                              5 dBA above ambient sound       10 dBA above ambient sound
            Type B
                                 not to exceed 55 dBA             not to exceed 65 dBA

                              5 dBA above ambient sound       10 dBA above ambient sound
            Type C
                                 not to exceed 70 dBA             not to exceed 70 dBA
                                                                                            —
                              5 dBA above ambient sound       10 dBA above ambient sound
            Type D
                                 not to exceed 75 dBA             not to exceed 75 dBA

*See Appendix A referencing property use examples.

                                          SECTION II
       This ordinance shall become effective upon passage, signature and notice of publication.


              PASSED AND APPROVED this 27th day of November, 2012.


                                                MIDVALE CITY


                                                By:




                                               6
[SEAL]                                    VOTING:


                                          Robert M. Hale     Yea tNay
                                          Paul Glover        Yea _‘Z Nay
                                          Paul Hunt          Yea ,---- Nay
                                          Wayne Sharp        Yea 1/ Nay
                                          Colleen Costello   Yea L/Nay

ATTEST:



    v.i__.vifyizip_az
RoriR,. Andreason, MMC
City Recorder

Published this44-day of December, 2012.




                                          7
                                     APPENDIX A
                               Noise Area Classifications

Type A Property Use Activities/Examples


      •   Single family residential structure that does not share a common wall with residential
          or any other use.

Type B Property Use Activities/Examples

      •   All other residential use not included in Type A including but not limited to:
              o       Apartment/Condominitun/Twin Home/Poli-Plex
              o       Group home, community living
              o       Residential hotel/motel
              o       Mobile home park or court
              o       Transient lodging
      •   Correctional institution
      •   Medical/other health service
      •   Religious, Church activity
      •   School, Educational Institution activity
      •   Cultural activity and nature exhibition
      •   Camping and picnicking areas (designated)
      •   Resort, group camp
      •   Other cultural, recreational activity

Type C Property Use Activities/Examples

      •   Retail trade
             o building materials
             o hardware
             o farm equipment
             o general merchandise
             o food, eating and drinking, other recreation (bar, discotheques, clubs)
              o automotive & accessories, gas stations
              o marine craft & accessories
              o aircraft & accessories
              o apparel & accessories
              o furniture, home furnishings and equipment
      •   Other retail trade
              o Finance, insurance, and real estate services
              o Personal services
              o Business services
              o Repair services
              o Legal services

                                                8
             o   Other professional services
             o   Contract construction services
             o   Governmental services (except correctional institutions)
             o   Miscellaneous services (except religious activities)
             o   Amusements (except fairgrounds and amusement parks)
             o   Parks
             o   Automobile parking

Type D Property Use Activities/Examples


      •   Food and kindred products - manufacturing
      •   Textile mill products - manufacturing
      •   Apparel & other finished products made from fabrics, leather & similar materials -
              manufacturing
      •   Lumber and wood products (except furniture) — manufacturing
      •   Furniture and fixtures - manufacturing
      •   Paper and allied products- manufacturing
      •   Printing, publishing, and allied industries
      •   Chemicals and allied products — manufacturing
      •   Petroleum refining and related industries
      •   Rubber and miscellaneous plastic products — manufacturing
      •   Stone, clay, & glass products — manufacturing
      •   Primary metal industries
      •   Fabricated metal products - manufacturing
      •   Professional, scientific, and controlling instruments, photographic & optical goods,
              watches and clocks - manufacturing
      •   Miscellaneous manufacturing (except motion picture production)
      •   Railroad, rapid transit, and street railway transportation (except passenger terminals)
      •   Motor vehicle transportation (except passenger terminals)
      •   Aircraft transportation (except passenger terminals)
      •   Marine craft transportation (except passenger and freight terminals)
      •   Highway and street right-of-way Communication (except telegraph message centers)
      •   Utilities
      •   Other transportation, communication & utilities (except transportation services and
              arrangements)
      •   Event and entertainment venues
      •   Race tracks
      •   Fairgrounds and amusement parks
      •   Agricultural
      •   Agricultural and related activities
      •   Forestry activities and related services (including commercial forest land, timber
              production, and other related activities)
      •   Fishing activities and related services
      •   Mining activities and related services

                                                9
•   Other resource production and extraction
•   All other activities not otherwise listed
•   Undeveloped and unused land area (excluding noncommercial forest development)
•   Noncommercial forest development
•   Water areas
•   Vacant floor area
•   Under construction
•   Other undeveloped land and water areas
•   All other property uses not previously identified




                                      10
4770 S. 5600 W.
P.O. BOX 7.04005
WEST Vk1,LEY CITY. UTAH 84170
                                             at Alit gillicZribunts M EDI At (le                              Deseret News
FED.TAX I.D.# 87-0217663

                                              PROOF OF PUBLICATION                                              CUSTOMER'S COPY

                               ( .STOMER NAME AND ADDRESS                                     ACCOUNT NUMBER                           DATE

                     MIDVALE CITY,                                                                 9001344979                     12/4/2012
                     655 W CENTER ST

                     MIDVALE            UT 84047

                                                        ACCOUNT NAME

                                                        MIDVALE CITY,

                            TELEPHONE                                     ADORDER# / INVOICE NUMBER

                               8015677207                               0000842550     /
                                                           SCHEDULE'
                                                                                                                       I

                                Start     12 0.4 2012                   End   12/04/2012
                                                         CUST, REF. NO.
                                                                                                                       I
                                            Ord No 2012-16

                                                            CAPTION
                                                                                                                       I

           MIDVALE CITY PUBLIC NOTICE Notice is hereby given that during a City Council meeting on
                                                                SIZE

                                            15          Lines                 1.00    COLUMN                                       MIDVALE CITY
                                                                                                                                  PUBLIC NOTICE
                                TIMES                                                      RATE                            Notice is hereby given that
                                                                                                                           during a City Council meeting
                                                                                                                           on November 27, 2012, the
                                                                                                                           Midvale City Council adopted
                                  4                                                                                        Ordinance No. 2012-16 An
                                                                                                                           Ordinance of Midvale City
                                                                                                                           Pertaining to Noise Regula-

       MP.                MISC. CHARGES
                                                                  I                  AD CHARGES                            tion and Restricted Hours.
                                                                                                                           Published: December 4, 201 2
                                                                                                                           Ron L. Andreason, MfinC
                                                                                                                           ii,14/2k)order
                                                                                                                                                  UPAXLP



                                                                                     TOTAL COST

                                                                                           30.20

                                                                AFFIDAVIT OF PUBLICATION

    AS NEWSPAPER AGENCY COMPANY, LLC dba MEDIAONE OF UTAH LEGAL BOOKER, I CERTIFY THAT THE ATTACHED ADVERTISEMENT OF
    MIDVALE CITY PUBLIC NOTICE Notice is hereby given that during a City Council meeting on November 27, 2012, the Midvale City Council adopted
    Ordinance No. 2012- FOR MIDVALE CITY, WAS PUBLISHED BY THE NEWSPAPER AGENCY COMPANY, LLC dba MEDIAONE OF UTAH, AGENT FOR
    THE SALT LAKE TRIBUNE AND DESERET NEWS, DAILY NEWSPAPERS PRINTED IN THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE WITH GENERAL CIRCULATION IN
    UTAH, AND PUBLISHED IN SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY IN THE STATE OF UTAH. NOTICE IS ALSO POSTED ON UTAHLEGALS.COM ON THE
    SAME DAY AS THE FIRST NEWSPAPER PUBLICATION DATE AND REMAINS ON UTAHLEGALS.COM INDEFINATELY.

                           Start _12/04/2012                            End 12/04/2012               '..         V IRGINIA CRAFT        /
    PUBLISHED ON                                                                                                             te of Utah I
                                                                                                              Commission # 5814139
                                                                                                             My Commission Expires
    SIGNATURE                                                                                                   January 12, 2014


    DATE
                   12/4,2012
                                        THIS IS NOT A STATEMENT BUT A "PROOF OF PUBLICATION"
                                                  PLEASE PAY FROM BILLING STATEMENT
