                                  ORDINANCE NO. 2012-17

              AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE SIGN REQUIREMENTS IN
            CHAPTER 17-7-9 OF THE MIDVALE CITY MUNICIPAL CODE; ALSO
           PROVIDING A SAVING CLAUSE AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE FOR THE
                                   ORDINANCE.

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 10-6-12 Utah Code Annotated 1953 as amended, the
City has authority to adopt the Midvale City Municipal Code; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah, held a public hearing regarding
amendments to Chapter 17-7-9 of the Midvale City Municipal Code on November 27, 2012; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah, fmd it appropriate to adopt such an
ordinance to ensure adequate advertisement opportunities for businesses within the overall
Bingham Junction zone.

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah
as follows:

        Section 1.   The Municipal Code which sets forth the laws and policies within Midvale
City, is hereby amended as follows:

                                       See Attachment "A"

        Section 2. If any part of this ordinance or the applications thereof to any person or
circumstances shall, for any reason, be adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
unconstitutional or invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair or invalidate the remainder of
this ordinance or the application thereof to other persons and circumstances, but shall be
confined to its operation to the section, subdivision, sentence or part of the section and the
persons and circumstances directly involved in the controversy in which such judgment shall
have been rendered. It is hereby declared to be the intent of the City Council that this section
would have been adopted if such invalid section, provisions, subdivision, sentence or part of a
section or application had not been included.
       Section 3. This ordinance shall be effective upon date of first publication.


       PASSED AND APPROVED this j7tk-day of kW kil tk Be2— , 2012.




                                                     Voting:                          "Nay"
                                                     Colleen Costello
                                                     Paul Glover
                                                     Robert Hale
                                                     Paul Hunt
                                                     Wayne Sharp
City Recorder

Date of first publication: Lee.   44, 2412
                                    Attachment A — Ordinance #2012-17



17-7-9.4 Common Intent Statements


    Sign Standards Common to All or Multiple Subareas.


     1.   Flat/Wall Signs.


           a. Up to three building walls may be used for flat or wall signage. The maximum sign area
           shall be fifteen percent of the wall surface of the front of the building, five percent for the side,
           and five percent for the back or side. The following four types of wall signs are allowed; all
           others are prohibited:


                 i.  An externally illuminated aluminum sign panel with cut out and/or channel letters
                 illuminated by a specified cut-off floodlight fixture mounted to the building.


                 ii.  An internally illuminated aluminum sign panel with cut out and/or reverse channel
                 letters illuminated by neon tubes or fluorescent lamps behind the sign panel and/or
                 letters.


                 iii.   An externally illuminated individually fabricated channel letter form using a specified
                 cut-off floodlight fixture mounted to the building.


                 iv.    An internally illuminated channel letter mounted to the building.


           b. Subject to the wall sign area and type restrictions found herein, businesses that lack
           suitable wall area upon which to mount a flat or wall sign may instead place the sign on a
           gabled roof so long as the sign does not project above the roof line. For the purposes of this
           section, a building elevation that qualifies under this subsection is a side of a standalone
           structure with less than one hundred feet of wall area.


      2. Awning/Canopy Signs. All awnings and canopies shall be constructed of a canvas-like material
      or architectural metal. The design and color shall relate to the storefront design. No awning or
      canopy sign may extend more than five feet over the sidewalk and shall be at least eight feet above
      the sidewalk. Awnings and canopies that are utilized for signage shall use contrasting letters that
      are painted, applied or sewn onto the vertical drip or panel of the awning or canopy. The maximum
      sign area of an awning/canopy sign is the greater of sixteen square feet or five percent of the area
      of the wall to which it is attached. Letters shall not occupy more than eighty percent of the width or
      the height of the vertical drip or panel. The sign area used for a canopy sign shall be included in
      any calculation of wall sign area.


      3. Projecting Signs. One projecting sign may be attached to the building perpendicular to the
      facade facing the sidewalk per ground level tenant space. A projecting sign shall be made of a rigid
      material with the bracket and sign panel relating to the storefront design. Projecting signs may not
                              Attachment A - Ordinance #2012-17



exceed twelve square feet in size, project more than four feet from the facade, and must be at least
eight feet above the sidewalk.

      Door/Window Signs. Door and window signs are permitted as follows:

      a.   Lettering and logos may be applied directly onto storefront windows. This includes white
       gold leaf, applied vinyl, painted, etched or sandblasted.

       b.  Retail, service and restaurant establishments are permitted to use window-mounted signs
       advertising current sales or specials, subject to applicable sign area restrictions, so long as
       they do not disrupt the visibility from employee stations to the parking area or of law
       enforcement personnel into the business.

       c.   One neon or LED sign may be mounted in each window subject to applicable sign area
       restrictions. One electric changeable copy sign is permitted per business subject to applicable
       safety and sign area restrictions and best practices. Signs that make use of crawling or
       flashing copy or text, or simulate traffic signs or traffic messages are prohibited.

       d.  The total area of window signs (including lettering and logos) shall not exceed twenty-five
       percent of the window area on which it is located.

       e.  Storefront windows and doors shall be limited to a maximum of two square feet of
       coverage with stickers, credit card decals, hours of operation, etc.

       f.  There may be one window sign listing the names of second floor tenants near street level
       entrances. This sign shall not exceed six square feet and is not to be included in the twenty-
       five percent allowance.

 5.  Suspended Signs. Suspended signs shall be located near the entrance to the business/tenant
 space and may be used in place of rather than in conjunction with a wall sign. The maximum sign
 area is one square foot per each lineal foot of building elevation on which the sign is located, not to
 exceed sixty square feet. Signs shall be located so as to emphasize design elements of the
 buildings. No suspended sign shall be less than eight feet above the sidewalk.

 6. Monument Signs. One monument sign may be allowed per street frontage for a multifamily or
 commercial project. A monument sign shall not exceed the sign area and height indicated in the
 sign table for each Subarea th-i-rty-two square-feet-or-si
                                                                                             9-Gal-DO-FR
 pedestal. artct shalt be-looated-ih-a-ta
 The signand may be located on a berm of up to 3 fet          heightprovtded-the-top-of-the-sigh-does
 not-exceed-hthe-feet-ih-height-above-finished-grack Monument signs shall not be constructed
                                                       .




 within the clear view area and shall be set back at least three feet from a public sidewalk and
 property lines. Monument signs shall be constructed with materials similar to that of the main
 building. Due to the unique nature of the Bingham Junction development and the large quantity of
                             Attachment A — Ordinance #2012-17



open space adjacent to viable commercial real estate, the city may grant an easement for the
partial location of an approved monument sign within city-owned open space; provided, that it is
located immediately adjacent to the business being advertised. No advertising for businesses
located outside the adjacent development shall be allowed.


7.   A-Frame Signs. One freestanding A-frame signboard per ground level tenant may be placed on
private property within close proximity to a pedestrian way, or on a public or private sidewalk of at
least ten feet in width, provided the sign does not interfere with pedestrian movement. The
signboard copy space shall not exceed three feet in height and two feet in width with a maximum
sign height of four feet.

8.   Pylon Signs. One pylon sign is allowed in each identified retail area as indicated on the
Illustrative Land Use Plan (Appendix B) which is on file in the city recorder's office. Signs are for
multi-tenant use only. Signs are to be placed as near the center of the Jordan River Boulevard
street frontage as practicable. If buildings have been located against the right-of-way line, the sign
may be located adjacent to the main drive entrance, but no closer than five hundred feet to another
pylon sign. The entire length of the supporting poles must be covered in a substantial architectural
cover which does not reflect the round nature of the pole beneath, with a minimum of the first third
of that length being constructed of masonry to match the development. The cabinet must be set
back a minimum of eighteen inches from the property line and the supports a minimum of five feet
from the property line. Due to the unique nature of the Bingham Junction development and the
large quantity of open space adjacent to viable commercial real estate, the city may grant an
easement for the partial location of an approved pylon sign as identified in the Bingham Junction
zone within city-owned open space; provided, that it is a multi-tenant sign located immediately
adjacent to the shopping center/businesses being advertised. No advertising for businesses located
outside the adjacent development shall be allowed.
4770 S. 5600 W.
P.O. BOX 704.905
WEST VALLEY CITY, UTAH 84170
                                            ac*mtgakeZribune                      MEDI Agqz Deseret News
FED.TAX I.D.# 87-0217663
                                             PROOF OF PUBLICATION                                                             CUSTOMER'S COPY


                               CUSTOMER NAME AND ADDRESS                                       ACCol TNT NUMBER                                       DATE
                     MIDVALE CITY,                                                                     9001344979                               12/4/2012

                     655 W CENTER ST.

                     MIDVALE            UT 84047


                                                       ACCOUNT NAME

                                                       MIDVALE CITY,

                            TELEPHONE                                    ADORDER# / INVOICE NUMBER

                               8015677207                              0000842557       /
                                                          SCHEN ILE
                                                                                                                                     I
                                Start     12 04 2012                   I rid   12 04 2012

                                                        CUST, REF. NO.
                                                                                                                                     I
                                            Ord No 2012-17
                                                           CAPTION
                                                                                                                                     I
           MIDVALE CITY PUBLIC NOTICE Notice is hereby given that during a City Council meeting on
                                                               SIZE

                                            16         Lines                   1.00    COLUMN                                                   MIDVALE CRY
                                                                                                                                                PUBLIC NOME

                                TIMES                                                       RATE.                                        Notice is hereby given that
                                                                                                                                         during a City Council meeting
                                                                                                                                         on November 27, 2012 the
                                                                                                                                         Midvale City Council adopted
                                  4                                                                                                      Ordinance No. 2012-17 An
                                                                                                                                         Ordinance amending the Sign
                                                                                                                                         Requirements in Chapter 17-
                                                                                                                                         7-9 of the Midvale City Mu-
                          MISC. CHARGES                                               AD CIIARGES                                        nicipal Code.
                                                                                                                                         Published: December 4, 2012
                                                                                                                                          Rori 1. Andreason, MMC
                                                                                                                                          CitVtecorder
                                                                                                                                                               UPAX1P


                                                                                      TOTAL COST


                                                                                            31.88

                                                               AFFIDAVIT OF PUBLICATION

                                                                                                                                                            OF
    AS NEWSPAPER AGENCY COMPANY. LLC dba MEDIAONE OF UTAH LEGAL BOOKER, I CERTIFY THAT THE ATTACHED ADVERTISEMENT
                                                                                                                          City Council adopted
    MIDVALE CITY PUBLIC NOTICE Notice is hereby given that during a City Council meeting on November 27, 2012 the Midvale
    Ordinance No. 2012-1 FOR MIDVALE CITY, WAS PUBLISHED BY THE NEWSPAPER AGENCY COMPANY, LLC dba MEDIAONE OF UTAH, AGENT FOR
                                                                                                                          IN
    THE SALT LAKE TRIBUNE AND DESERET NEWS, DAILY NEWSPAPERS PRINTED IN THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE WITH GENERAL CIRCULATION
          AND PUBLISHED IN SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY IN THE STATE OF UTAH. NOTICE IS ALSO POSTED ON UTAHLEGALS.CO M ON THE
    UTAH,
    SAME DAY AS THE FIRST NEWSPAPER PUBLICATION DATE AND REMAINS ON UTAHLEGALS.COM INDEFINATELY.
                                                                                                    ••••••.'"--


    PUBLISHED ON           Start ,12/04/2012                           End 12/04/2012                                           VIRGINIA CRAFT
                                                                                                                          Notary F'ubliu, State of Utah
                                                                                                                            Commission
                                                                                                                           My Commission Exoiros
    SIGNATURE                                                                                                     7a.T.        Jautuv42,2014


    DATE
                   12/4/2012
                                        THIS IS NOT A STATEMENT BUT A "PROOF OF PUBLICATION"
                                                 PLEASE PAY FROM BILLING STATEMENT
