                                  ORDINANCE 2012-04


AN ORDINANCE ALLOWING SEASONAL FOOD STANDS AS AN ALLOWED
    USE IN THE CLEAN INDUSTRIAL ZONE, AND ADDING SPECIFIC
 ITINERANT MERCHANT CRITERIA FOR SEASONAL FOOD STANDS IN
 THE CLEAN INDUSTRIAL ZONE; ALSO PROVIDING A SAVING CLAUSE
          AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE FOR THE ORDINANCE.

        WHEREAS, pursuant to Sections 10-9-401 through 10-9-405 Utah Code
Annotated 1953 as amended, the City has the authority to make and amend a zoning plan
which divides the City into zoning districts and within those districts to regulate the
erection, construction, re-construction, alteration, and uses of buildings and structures and
the uses of land to promote the prosperity, improve the morals, peace and good order,
comfort, convenience, and aesthetics of the municipality; and

      WHEREAS, on January 2, 2002, the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance (Title 17)
became effective and may be subject to amendments from time to time; and

        WHEREAS, since this effective date, Midvale City has found a number of areas
that require amendments to the text of the ordinance in order to correct errors and
omissions, clarify the intent of the language, and/or include new provisions to further the
purpose and intent; and

        WHEREAS, it was found that the seasonal food stand type of itinerant merchant
is an appropriate use in the Clean Industrial Zone District provided the criteria for
seasonal food stands utilized in other zones in the City is required; and

        WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on March 28, 2012,
to review proposed text amendment language regarding this issue, with such meeting
being preceded by notice through publication in the Salt Lake Tribune and Deseret News
on March 14, 2012, and the Planning Commission has forwarded a recommendation on
such to the City Council on March 28, 2012; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on
April 17, 2012 which meeting was preceded by notice through publication in the Salt
Lake Tribune and Deseret News on April 3, 2012; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council has taken into consideration citizen testimony,
planning and building analysis, and the Planning Commission recommendations, and has
determined that this text amendment is appropriate and within the best interests of the
City as a whole in protecting and promoting the health, safety, welfare and aesthetic
quality of Midvale City.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale
City, Utah as follows:
       Section 1. The following chapters and sections of the Midvale City Zoning and
Subdivision Ordinance are hereby amended as included in ATTACHMENT A of this
document.

        Section 2. If any part of this ordinance or the applications thereof to any person
or circumstances shall, for any reason, be adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction
to be unconstitutional or invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair or invalidate the
remainder of this ordinance or the application thereof to other persons and circumstances,
but shall be confined to its operation to the section, subdivision, sentence or part of the
section and the persons and circumstances directly involved in the controversy in which
such judgment shall have been rendered. It is hereby declared to be the intent of the City
Council that this section would have been adopted if such invalid section, provisions,
subdivision, sentence or part of a section or application had not been included.

           Section 3. This ordinance shall be effective upon publication of a summary
thereof.


           PASSED AND APPROVED this         ir day of Ape,' I.,            ,   2012.




ATTEST:




City Recorder

Date of first publication:       *L Z' 2'r2-

Voting by City Council                  "Aye"         "Nay"
       Colleen Costello                   /
       Paul Glover
       Robert Hale
       Paul Hunt
       Wayne Sharp




                                                2
                                        ATTACHMENT A

                                                                         Proposed Text Additions: Text
                                                                         Proposed Text Deletions: Text



17-7-13.2Uses.

   If a use is not specifically designated, it is prohibited.


                                             Table 17-7-13.2
                                                    Uses


                                                                                              Business
                   Type                     Allowed        Administrative       Conditional   License

Hotel/Motel                                                                          X           X

Itinerant Merchants

  Seasonal Produce Stands                       X                                                X
  Seasonal Food Stands                          X                                                X

Kennel                                                           X                               X




17-7-13.11 Itinerant merchants.

    Specific Itinerant Merchant Criteria.
         ■•■
                                                    PX3FR-G          Re-1-0410MARG




         1.    Seasonal Produce Stand. Each business license application for a seasonal produce
         stand must comply with the following:
               4.a. One produce stand business shall be permitted on each parcel of private
               property.
               2.b. A minimum of three on-site parking stalls are required for the produce stand
               use. Two of these stalls shall be dedicated for the use of the itinerant merchant's
               patrons; the other for a business employee.
               3.c. The business shall sell fresh fruits and vegetables only; merchandise and
               nonperishable food items are not allowed.
               4.d. Produce shall be displayed under a tent, awning or canopy. This structure shall
               be an earthtone color and have a maximum size of one hundred square feet.
      5.e. Signage must be attached to the tent, awning or canopy and shall not exceed
      ten square feet on each side of the structure. One A-frame sign complying with the
      city's A-frame sign standards may be utilized. No flashing or animated lights or
      searchlights may be used. No off-site signage is allowed, including within the public
      right-of-way.
      6.1. The produce stand and all related business items shall be maintained in good
      condition and repair at all times.
      7.g. All aspects of the business shall be moved on and off the premises each day of
      operation. No overnight parking or outdoor storage is allowed.
      8.h. Produce stands can be operated between June 1st and October 31st each
      year.
      £4.i. The business shall not be conducted before ten a.m. and after ten p.m.


2. Seasonal Food Stand. Each business license application for a seasonal food stand
must comply with the following:

     a.   There shall be a minimum separation of six hundred sixty feet between all food
     stand locations. This separation shall be measured as a radius in all directions, with
     the food stand location being the center point.

     b.   A food stand shall not be located within two hundred feet of the primary public
     entrance of an existing restaurant use.

     c.   A minimum of two on-site parking stalls are required for the food stand use. One
     of these stalls shall be dedicated for the use of the itinerant merchant's patrons and
     the other for a business employee.

     d.   The food stand must be a temporary structure with all wheels, trailers and hitches
     removed.

     e.   The maximum size of a food stand structure shall be five feet by eight feet. The
     food stand must include four walls and a roof. It shall be constructed of surface
     materials that are smooth, easily cleanable, corrosion resistant, nontoxic, stable and
     constructed in accordance with the Salt Lake Valley health department regulations.

     f.   The vendor shall be limited to one outdoor storage bin (the bin shall not exceed
     fifteen square feet in size) and one trash receptacle external to the food stand. All
     other freestanding devices, i.e., signs, propane tanks, tables, racks, customer seating,
     overhead structures (i.e., tarps, awnings, umbrellas, enclosures, canopy extensions),
     etc., are prohibited.

     g.   Food stands are for walk-up traffic only; drive-up window service is prohibited.

     h. Signage shall be attached to the food stand and occupy no more than ten square
     feet. Signs shall not be internally illuminated or make use of flashing or intermittent
lighting or animation devices. Pennants, streamers, lawn banners and other
temporary signs are prohibited.

i.   A portable fire extinguisher, Type 2A-10 BC minimum, must be mounted within
easy reach on the food stand.

j.   The food stand and all related business items shall be maintained in good
condition and repair at all times.

k.   Seasonal food stands can be operated between May 1st and September 30th
each year. The temporary structure must be removed from the site by September
30th and cannot be put on the site before May 1st.

     The business shall not be conducted before six a.m. and after ten p.m.
