                             ORDINANCE NO. 2013-0-05


    AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING TEMPORARY REGULATIONS FOR
     SEASONAL FOOD STANDS WITHIN THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF
           MID VALE CITY THROUGH SEPTEMBER 30, 2013.


        WHEREAS, in 2009 the Midvale City Council adopted an ordinance clarifying
and revising Midvale City's itinerant merchant regulations and standards, including the
provisions for seasonal food stands; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council has heard some concerns regarding the ordinance
limitations on the size of seasonal food stands allowed; and

       WHEREAS, the time period allowed for seasonal food stands, i.e. May 1st
through September 30 th , does not allow for amendments to be made to the current
ordinance and still allow seasonal food stand businesses to operate in the 2013 season;
and

       WHEREAS, the City Council understands this issue and is willing to temporarily
modify the regulations for seasonal food stands until more time can be spent on
discussing the current regulations and appropriate amendments to the size of structures
and devices allowed for itinerant merchants within the City; and

        WHEREAS, Section 10-9a-504 U.C.A. grants the City Council the authority to
establish by ordinance temporary land use regulations regarding zoning amendments,
conditional use permits, building permits, sign permits and other land use matters.

        NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah
the following:

       (1)    This temporary ordinance shall apply to all requests for Seasonal Food
Stand uses within Midvale City from the adoption date of this ordinance until September
30, 2013.

       (2)     During the period of this temporary ordinance, all business license
applications for Seasonal Food Stand uses shall comply with the all of the existing zoning
and business license requirements for such a use with the following exceptions:
               • The maximum size of a food stand structure shall be eight feet by
                   sixteen feet.
               • The signage shall be attached to the food stand structure and shall
                   occupy not more than twenty square feet.

       (3)    This temporary zoning regulation is hereby adopted in all zones which
allow a Seasonal Food Stand itinerant merchant use.

       (4)     Effective Date. This ordinance shall become effective upon adoption and
signature and shall expire on September 30, 2013.



       PASSED AND APPROVED this /94-day of             \Jill-IL     , 2013.



                                                                  B. Seghini, Mayor

ATTEST:



Roti Andreason, ItIMC
Ciiy Recorder

Date of first publication:

Voting by City Council               "Aye"          "Nay"
       Colleen Costello
       Paul Glover
       Robert Hale                  Aeke&
       Paul Hunt
       Wayne Sharp




                                             2
