                                           MIDVALE CITY
                                       ORDINANCE No. 2013-0-12


                        AN ORDINANCE DEFINING THE CRITERIA TO EVALUATE THE
                               LOWEST RESPONSIVE RESPONSIBLE BIDDER

        WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. § 11-39-101, et seq., as amended, provides, in part. that if a City
intends to undertake a building improvement or public works project paid for by the City and the
estimated cost of building improvements or public works projects exceeds the bid limit (as defined in
Utah State Code) and the City determines to proceed with the building improvements or public works
project, then the City shall enter into a contract for the completion of the building improvements or public
works project with the lowest responsive responsible bidder, as determined by the following criteria; and


        WHEREAS, the City Council finds adoption of this Ordinance reasonably furthers the health,
safety, and general welfare of the citizens of Midvale.


        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED that the Municipal Council of Midvale City hereby
determines that the lowest responsive responsible bidder means, among other things, a prime contractor
who satisfies the City's criteria relating to financial strength, past performance, integrity, reliability, and
other factors that the local entity uses to assess the ability of the bidder to perform fully and in good faith
the contract's requirements.


        The Municipal Council of Midvale City further determines that the term "lowest responsive
responsible bidder" shall include evaluation of the following criteria:


        1.   That the contractor and subcontractor, if any, demonstrate to the City's satisfaction that the
             contractor has and will maintain a drug and alcohol testing policy during the period of the
             contract that applies to all covered individuals employed or hired by the contractor or
             subcontractor and subject the covered individuals to random testing under the drug and
             alcohol testing policy.


        2.   That the contractor and subcontractor, if any, demonstrate to the City's satisfaction that the
             contractor and subcontractor have and will maintain a program to actively recruit and/or
             employ veterans.


        3.   That the contractor and subcontractors, if any, demonstrate to the City's satisfaction that the
             contractor and subcontractor has and will maintain a job training program, such as by way of
             example and not limitation, a federal, state and/or city recognized job training program.


        4.   That the contractor and subcontractors, if any, demonstrate to the City's satisfaction that the
             contractor and subcontractor has, and will, maintain a safety program.


        As used herein:


        1. "Contractor" means a person or entity who is or may be awarded a construction contract for
             building improvements and public works projects.
        2. - Covered individual" means an individual who, on behalf of a contractor or subcontractor,
           provides services directly related to design or construction contract and is in a safety sensitive
           position, including a design position that has responsibilities that directly affect the safety of a
           building improvement or public works project.

        3. "Drug and alcohol testing policy" means a policy under which a contractor or subcontractor
           tests a covered individual to establish, maintain, or enforce a prohibition of (i) the
           manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of drugs or alcohol, except the
           medically prescribed possession and use of a drug, or (ii) the impairment of judgment or
           physical abilities due to the use of drugs or alcohol.

        4. "Random testing" means that a covered individual is subject to periodic testing for drugs and
           alcohol in accordance with the drug and alcohol testing policy and on the basis of random
           selection process.

        5. "Subcontractor" means any person or entity who may be awarded a contract with a contractor
           or another subcontractor to provide services or labor for the construction of building
           improvements and public works projects. Subcontractor includes a trade, contractor, or
           specialty contractor but does not include a supplier who provides only materials, equipment,
           or supplies to a contractor or subcontractor.

       6. "Veteran" means an individual who has served on active duty in the armed forces for more
          than 180 consecutive days, or was a member of a reserve component who served in a
          campaign or expedition for which a campaign medal has been authorized and who has been
          separated or retired under honorable conditions, or any individual incurring an actual service-
          related injury or disability in the line of duty, whether or not that person completed 180
          consecutive days of active duty.

       This Ordinance shall become effective upon passage, signature and notice of passage published in
a newspaper of general circulation.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 22nd day of October, 2013.


                                                       MIDVALE CITY


                                                       By:
                                                             Mftyor JoAnn B. Seg




                                                      2
[SEAL]                                          VOTING:

                                                Robert M. Hale     Yea j---- Nay
                                                Paul Glover        Yea 1.-■ Nay    .



                                                Paul Hunt          Yea 4---- Nay
                                                Wayne Sharp        Yea 6,-- Nay
                                                Colleen Costello   Yea ,---- Nay




    L. Andre
    Recorder

         PUBLISHED this   7441:tay of October, 2013.




                                               3
