                                           MIDVALE CIT1


                                    ORDINANCE NO. 2013-0-06


        AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING RESTRICTIONS ON THE USE OF FIREWORKS WITHIN
        CERTAIN AREAS OF MIDVALE CITY WITH CONDITIONS.

       WHEREAS,      in 2013 the Utah Legislature modified State regulations regarding the
authority of local governments to regulate the sale and discharge of Class fireworks; and

       WHEREAS, there currently is, and may be in the future, a high risk of fire during the times
when fireworks are allowed to be discharged; and

       WHEREAS, the amendments to the Utah Code in HB289 require additional scrutiny and
review by fire officials and legislative bodies regarding fireworks and fire restrictions; and

       WHEREAS,     the officials of Unified Fire Authority have recommended temporary
fireworks discharge restrictions as a result of their evaluation of fire risks and potential property
damage; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council finds it is in the best interest of the municipality and the
general health, safety and welfare of the public that this Ordinance should be passed.

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF MIDVALE CITY AS
FOLLOWS:

      1. Definition. All terms relating to fireworks used in this Ordinance shall have the same
meaning as they are defined in Utah Code Ann. § 53-7-202 of the Utah Fire Prevention Act.

        2. Sale, Discharge and Possession of Certain Fireworks Restricted.
        a. It is unlawful for any person to sell or offer for retail sale, or to discharge, or to have in
their possession any fireworks in Midvale City, other than Class C common Utah State approved
explosives used in accordance with, and only on the dates allowed, by Utah Code Ann. § 53-7-
220 through 225; the rules adopted pursuant thereto; and this Ordinance, except as otherwise
permitted by State law; or

       b. It is unlawful for any person to discharge any fireworks generally from 7800 South to
approximately 8600 South, east of the Jordan River, to the eastern boundary of the Jordan River
Parkway, as depicted on Exhibit - A; - or

        c. In areas as designated by the officials at the Unified Fire Authority;

        3. Public Displays. This Ordinance and restrictions contained herein do not apply to the
City's 4 th of July Civic Celebration because of adequate fire prevention preparations.
      4. Enforcement.
      a. Every officer charged with enforcement of State and municipal laws, including the Fire
Marshal, is hereby charged with the responsibility to enforce this Ordinance;

       b. Fireworks possessed, sold or offered for sale in violation of this Ordinance may be
seized and destroyed and the license of the person selling or offering fireworks for sale may be
revoked.

       5. Punishment. Violation of this Ordinance shall be a Class B misdemeanor punishable
by both fine and imprisonment as set forth in Utah law.

       6. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon passing and
publication and shall expire unless extended by an affirmative vote of the City Council at 1159
p.m. on August 31. 2013.

              PASSED AND APPROVED this l8 day of June, 2013.




                                                By:

!SEAL]

                                                VOTING:

                                                Robert M. Hale       Yea
                                                Paul Glover          Yea      Nay
                                                Paul Hunt            Yea vNay
                                                Wayne Sharp          Yea      Nay
                                                Colleen Costello     Yea 4----Nay




Roq L. Andreason, MMC
City Recorder


PUBLISHED this        day ofJune, 2013.




                                                2
        4     44•
Le,                 .
       " I
      14 I   kr*        Tr_   • 7-
