MIDVALE CITY, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2013-0-01 :
AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING A MUNICIPAL ETHICS COMMISSION FOR
MIDVALE CITY
WHEREAS, the Utah State Legislature 2012 General Session passed third Substitute
Senate Bill 180 providing for the establishment of municipal ethics commissions;
WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale desires to provide residents and business owners
a process to file ethics complaints against City Council members or against the Mayor;
WHEREAS, the City Council desires to establish a Municipal Ethics Commission for
the purpose of receiving, reviewing, and reporting ethics complaints;
WHEREAS, the City Council desires to receive from a Municipal Ethics Commission
recommendations regarding action against any elected official or city manager/chief
administrative officer where the Commission finds a violation of the Municipal Officers and |
Employees Ethics Act;
Now, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City that:
Chapter 2.16.340 Municipal Ethics be added to the Midvale municipal code as follows:
Chapter 2.16.340
Municipal Ethics
2.16.340.10.010 - Purpose.
The purpose of this chapter is to prevent improper influence, avoid the appearance of
impropriety, and prohibit elected officers or city managers/chief administrative officers from
receiving unjust financial gain from public service. It also seeks to increase public confidence by
assuring that governmental actions are taken ethically.
2.16.340.10.020 — Definitions.
A. For the purposes of this chapter, “Commission” means the Municipal Ethics
Commission formed pursuant to Section 2.16.10.050 of this chapter.
B. For the purposes of this chapter, “elected officer or city manager/chief administrative
officer” includes only the members of the Midvale City Council and the Mayor, and City
Manager/Chief Administrative Officer.

2.16.340.10.030 - Municipal Officers and Employees Ethics Act. :
A. Elected officers or city managers/chief administrative officers of Midvale City are
required to comply with the Municipal Officers and Employees Ethics Act (Utah Code |
10-3-1301 et seq.), as amended, which is incorporated herein by reference.
B. Included in the Municipal Officers and Employees Ethics Act is the obligation of
elected officers or city managers/chief administrative officers to:
1. Not disclose or improperly use private, controlled, or protected information
acquired by them by reason of their position, or in the course of their duties in
order to further substantially their personal economic interest or to secure special
privileges or exemptions for the elected officer or city manager/chief
administrative officer or others; and avoid the use of their office for personal
benefit;
2. Not use or attempt to use their position to further substantially their personal
economic interest or secure special privileges for the elected officer or city
manager/chief administrative officer, or for others;
3. Not knowingly receive, accept, take, seek, or solicit, directly or indirectly, for
the elected officer or city manager/chief administrative officer, or for another, a
gift of substantial value or a substantial economic benefit tantamount to a gift
that:
a. would tend improperly to influence a reasonable person in the elected
officer or city manager/chief administrative officer’s position to depart
from the faithful and impartial discharge of the person’s public duty; or
b. the elected officer or city manager/chief administrative officer knows or
that a reasonable person in that position should know under the
circumstances is primarily for the purpose of rewarding the elected officer
or city manager/chief administrative officer for official action taken.
C. The Municipal Officers and Employees Ethics Act also requires public disclosures and
filings in certain circumstances as described in the Act, including:
1. Where an elected officer or city manager/chief administrative officer receives
or agrees to receive compensation for assisting any person or business entity in
any transaction involving Midvale City;
2

2. Where an elected officer or city manager/chief administrative officer is an :
officer, director, agent, or employee, or the owner of a substantial interest in any :
business entity which is subject to regulation by Midvale City;
3. Where the elected officer or city manager/chief administrative officer is an
officer, director, agent, employee, or owner of a substantial interest in any
business entity which does, or anticipates doing, business with Midvale City; and
4. Where an elected officer or city manager/chief administrative officer has a
personal interest or investment which creates a conflict between the elected
officer or city manager/chief administrative officer's personal interests and the
elected officer or city manager/chief administrative officer's public duties.
2.16.340.10.040 - City Attorney Advisory Opinions.
A. Elected officers or city managers/chief administrative officers of Midvale City may
request of the City Attorney an advisory opinion concerning the application of the
Municipal Officers and Employees Ethics Act. The City Attorney shall accept and
process these advisory opinion requests. As soon as practicable, but not later than thirty
(30) days after the City Attorney receives a request for an advisory opinion, the City
Attorney shall render a written opinion to the Mayor and to the City Council. All
advisory opinions shall be available for public review, but may be in such form and with |
such deletions as may be necessary to prevent the disclosure of the identity of the
persons involved or to protect personal privacy interests.
B. An advisory opinion rendered by the City Attorney, until amended or revoked by the
City Attorney, shall be a defense in any action brought by the City against the elected
official and shall be binding on the City in any subsequent proceedings concerning the
person who requested the opinion and who acted in good faith upon it, unless material
facts were omitted or misstated by the person requesting the opinion.
2.16.340.10.050 - Municipal Ethics Commission.
A. Midvale City establishes a Municipal Ethics Commission pursuant to Utah Code § 10-
3-1311. The City's Commission shall be an individual or individuals previously approved
to serve as the Commission.
B. The Office of the City Attorney shall provide the Commission such administrative or
other support, as requested by the Commission.
3 '

2.16.340.10.060 - Filing of Ethics Complaints with Commission.

A. A complaint may only be filed with the Commission under the following conditions:
1. The complaint must be against an elected officer or city manager/chief |
administrative officer of Midvale City who is currently serving in their elected
position and allege a violation of the Municipal Officers and Employees Ethics
Act;

2. The complaint must be filed with the City Recorder of Midvale City on behalf
of the Commission;
3. The complaint must be made by either:
a. two or more registered voters who reside within the boundaries of
Midvale City; or
b. two or more registered voters who pay a fee or tax to Midvale City; or
c. one or more registered voters who reside within the boundaries of
Midvale City, plus one or more registered voters who pay a fee or tax to
Midvale City;
4. The complaint must be based upon direct evidence or sworn statements by one
or more people with actual knowledge of the facts and circumstances supporting
the alleged ethics violation;
5. The complaint may not be filed during the sixty (60) calendar days immediately
before a municipal primary election, if the accused elected officer or city
manager/chief administrative officer is a candidate in the primary election;
6. The complaint may not be filed during the sixty (60) calendar days immediately
before a municipal general election in which the accused elected officer or city
manager/chief administrative officer is a candidate, unless the accused elected
official or city manager/chief administrative officer is unopposed in the election;
7. The complaint must be in writing and contain:
a. the name and position of the elected officer or city manager/chief
administrative officer alleged to be in violation;
b. the name, address, and telephone number of each individual who is
filing the complaint;
4 ;

c. a description of each alleged violation of the Municipal Officers' and
Employees' Ethics Act, including a reference to the section of the Act
alleged to have been violated;
d. with reasonable specificity, evidence supporting each
allegation, which shall be provided by copies of official records,
documentary evidence, or affidavits that include the required
information;
e. a list of witnesses that a complainant wishes to have called or
interviewed, including for each witness: the name, address, and, if
available, one or more telephone numbers of the witness; a brief summary
of the testimony to be provided by the witness; a specific description of
any documents or evidence a complainant desires the witness to produce;
f. a statement that each complainant:
1) has reviewed the allegations contained in the complaint and the
sworn statements and documents attached to the complaint;
2) believes that the complaint is submitted in good faith and not for
any improper purpose such as harassing the named elected officer
or city manager/chief administrative officer, causing unwarranted
harm to the accused elected officer or city manager/chief
administrative officer's reputation, or causing unnecessary
expenditure of public funds; and
3) believes the allegations contained in the complaint to be true
and accurate.
g. a statement with the signature of each complainant.
B. Upon receipt of any ethics complaint, the City Recorder shall immediately refer the
complaint to the Commission. The City Recorder shall not notify or inform any other
person of the filing of the complaint.
C. A person filing a complaint under this chapter is not entitled to reimbursement for
attorney fees or costs incurred, regardless of the outcome of the proceedings.
2.16.340.10.070 - Privacy.
A. Once an ethics complaint has been filed with the City Recorder, neither the City
Recorder, the Commission, nor any City employee may disclose the existence of the
complaint, any response to the complaint, or any information concerning the alleged
5

ethics violation that is the subject of the complaint, unless otherwise provided in this

chapter.

B. Nothing in the restrictions above may be construed to hinder or prevent a person or the

City Attorney of Midvale from disclosing the facts or allegations about potential

criminal violations to a law enforcement authority.

C. Nothing in this section may be construed to hinder or prevent the named elected

officer or city manager/chief administrative officer from preparing a defense to a

complaint, including contacting witnesses or taking other actions in preparation for

review by the Commission.

D. Nothing in this section may be construed to hinder or prevent any person from

disclosing public records.

E. If any employee or officer of the City publicly discloses any private information,

appropriate disciplinary action may be taken against such individual.

F. If acomplainant publicly discloses any private records or information obtained from

private records, the Commission may summarily dismiss the complaint without prejudice.

G. All records received by or generated by or for the Commission are private and not

subject to disclosure or release, except for the Commission's summary findings and :

recommendation for the City Council or any document that is classified as public in

accordance with Title 11, Chapter 49 of the Utah Code (Utah Code 63G-1-302).

2.16.340.10.080 — Initial Review of Complaint.

A. Within ten (10) business days after receipt of an ethics complaint, the Commission

shall examine the complaint to determine if it is in compliance with the filing

requirements of this chapter.

B. If the Commission determines that the complaint does not comply with the filing :

requirements of this chapter, the Commission shall return the complaint to the first

complainant named on the complaint with a statement detailing the reason(s) for non-

compliance. At the same time, the Commission shall notify the Chair of the City Council

and the City Attorney that a complaint filed against an unidentified elected officer or city

manager/chief administrative officer has been returned for non-compliance with this

chapter and the fact that a complaint was filed and returned shall be kept confidential

until the Commission submits its annual summary report to the City Council and to the

Mayor. If a complaint is returned by the Commission, the complainants may file another

complaint if the new complaint independently meets the filing requirements of this

chapter.
6 |

C. If the Commission determines that the complaint complies with the filing requirements
of this chapter, the Commission shall:
1. Accept the complaint;
2. Promptly forward the complaint to the elected officer or city manager/chief
administrative officer who is named in the complaint, together with directions for
providing a response to the Commission;
3. If appropriate, request assistance from the Office of the City Attorney; and
4. Notify the complainants, the named elected official or city manager/chief
administrative officer, the City Recorder, and the employees in the Office of the
City Attorney of the privacy requirements of this chapter.
D. At its discretion, the Commission may determine whether the subject of the complaint
should be investigated by a law enforcement agency.
E. If the Commission learns that the subject of the complaint is under criminal
investigation, the Commission may suspend its review of the complaint pending the
resolution of the criminal investigation.
F. The named elected officer or city manager/chief administrative officer shall have the
right to present an answer to the complaint. The answer may contain statements,
arguments, and evidence. The answer must be filed within ten (10) business days from
the complaint was forwarded to and received by the elected officer or city manager/chief
administrative officer.
G. The Commission shall dismiss an ethics complaint if:
1. The named elected officer or city manager/chief administrative officer resigns
or is removed from office with Midvale City;
2. The named elected officer or city manager/chief administrative officer is
charged with a criminal violation of the Municipal Officers and Employees Ethics
Act where the facts and allegations presented in the ethics complaint assert
substantially similar facts and allegations as those asserted in the criminal
charges; or
3. The allegations in the complaint, if assumed to be true, do not state a violation
of the Municipal Officer’s and Employees’ Ethics Act.
7

2.16.340.10.090 — Consideration of Complaint after Acceptance.

A. After acceptance of a complaint, the Commission has the discretion to: |
1. Conduct a confidential, independent administrative investigation of the :
complaint;

2. Refer the matter to an independent non-criminal investigator for fact-finding

and investigation and consider the confidential report of the investigator;

3. Conduct a hearing in accordance with subsection B of this section; or

4. Any combination of the above. :

B. If the Commission uses a hearing to review the complaint, the Commission shall:

1. Assure that the hearing includes opening arguments, presentation of evidence,
witnesses and rebuttal, consideration of motions, and closing arguments;

2. Close the hearing to the public;

3. Allow the complainants and the named elected official or city manager/chief
administrative officer to retain legal representation, at their discretion; and

4. Provide administrative subpoenas pursuant to its subpoena powers, as provided
in Chapter 22 of Title 2 of this Code.

C. For any hearing the Commission must provide a notice to the first named complainant

and the named elected officer or city manager/chief administrative officer at least five (5)

business days prior to the hearing.

D. The Commission shall determine whether the subject matter of the complaint was

previously the subject of a filing, public disclosure, or a city attorney ethics advisory

opinion. The Commission shall take into consideration efforts by the named elected

official or city manager/chief administrative officer to seek legal direction regarding the

subject matter of the complaint and any good faith efforts by the named elected official or

city manager/chief administrative officer in response to legal advice received.

E. The Commission shall ensure that a record of any Commission meeting or hearing is

made, which shall include:

1. Audio recordings, if any;
2. Official summaries or minutes taken during the meeting or hearing;
8

3. Copies of all documents or other items admitted into evidence or considered by
the Commission;
4. Copies of a document or written order or ruling issued by the Commission; and :
5. Any other information the Commission deems relevant to the findings and
recommendation.
2.16.340.10.100 — Contempt Powers
A. The Commission may hold a person in contempt if the person:
1. Refuses to answer a question, without legal justification, after being directed by
the Commission to answer; or
2. Fails to comply with a subpoena issued by the Commission.
B. Upon finding a person in contempt, the Commission shall report the person to the
Third District Court and request a warrant of attachment or order to show cause, as
provided in Utah Code § 78B-6-313.
2.16.340.10.110 - Request by Elected Officer or City Manager/Chief Administrative Officer for
Legal Representation.
A. The named elected officer or city manager/chief administrative officer may request
that the City provide a legal defense if the complaint arises from an act or omission
during the performance of official duties, within the scope of employment, or under the
color of authority.
B. The City Attorney may arrange for such legal defense, where appropriate.
2.16.340.10.120 - Determination by Commission.
A. After review of the complaint, the Commission shall determine whether there is clear
and convincing evidence supporting a violation of the Municipal Officers and Employees
Act by the named elected officer or city manager/chief administrative officer. If there are
multiple alleged violations the Commission shall separately determine whether clear and
convincing evidence supports each violation.
B. If the Commission determines that no allegations in the complaint were proved, the
Commission shall:
1. Issue an order that the complaint is dismissed because no allegations in the
complaint were found to have been proven;
9

2. Provide notice of the determination of an unidentified elected officer or city
manager/chief administrative officer at a regular public meeting of the City
Council; and
3. Provide written notice of the determination to the named elected official or city
manager/chief administrative officer and the first named complainant on the
complaint.
C. If the Commission determines that one or more of the allegations in the complaint
were proved, the Commission shall:
1. Prepare written summary findings and a recommendation for the City Council:
a. Listing the name of each complainant and the name of the subject
elected officer or city manager/chief administrative officer;
b. For each allegation that was proven:
1) Provide the reference to the Municipal Officers’ and
Employee's Act;
2) Summarize the evidence supporting a violation by clear and
convincing evidence;
3) Make factual findings; and |
c. Recommend appropriate action to the City Council.
2. Notify the named elected officer or city manager/chief administrative officer
and the first complainant on the complaint of the written summary findings and
recommendation for the City Council; and
3. Orally report the summary findings and recommendation to the City Council in
a regular meeting of the City Council.
D. If the Commission finds a violation of the Municipal Officers' and Employee's Ethics
Act, the Commission may recommend to the City Council any appropriate action or
remedy, including but not limited to censor, reprimand, additional ethics training, or
removal from office. The Commission’s recommendation may depend on the severity of
the violation, the elected officer or city manager/chief administrative officer’s intent, any
history or pattern of abuse by the named elected officer or city manager/chief
administrative officer, and any economic or other benefit received by the named elected
officer or city manager/chief administrative officer.
10 |

2.16.340.10.130 — Action by City Council
A. Upon receipt of any finding and recommendation by the Commission, the City
Council shall review the recommendation and take action at its discretion.
B. The elected officer or city manager/chief administrative officer referred for a violation
may not participate in the Council’s deliberation or cast a vote as the Council decides
whether to take action and which action to take.
2.16.340.10.140 — Knowingly Filing False Complaint
A. Any person who files a complaint against an elected officer or city manager/chief
administrative officer pursuant to this chapter, knowing that such complaint is frivolous,
malicious, false, or otherwise without merit, shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor.
2.16.340.10.150 — Annual Commission Report |
A. The Commission shall prepare, on an annual basis, a summary report that contains:
1. A general description of the activities of the Commission during the past year;
2. The number of ethics complaints filed with the Commission;
3. The number of ethics complaints dismissed; and :
4. An executive summary of each complaint where the Commission found a
violation of the Municipal Officers and Employees Ethics Act.
B. The annual report of the Commission shall be filed with the City Council and with the
Mayor and shall be a public record.
This ordinance will take effect upon execution by the Mayor or after fifteen days from
transmission to the office of the Mayor if neither approved nor disapproved by the Mayor.
PASSED AND APPROVED this 2m day of January, 2013.
MIDVALE CITY
By:
Mayor JoAnn B. Seghi
11

[SEAL] VOTING: |
Robert M. Hale Yea Nay___
Paul Glover Yea - Nay
Paul Hunt Yea_-_ Nay
Wayne Sharp Yea_ Nay
Colleen Costello Yea_p— Nay
ATIEST: , |
é TY Sz,
XS % 4 {
Roti L. Andreason, MMC =f ew PP |
City Recorder *\ “err, 10 4
: e% , yt i
Published thisZ4 day of January, 2013. RATE
;
12
j
