                                        Midvale City


                                  Ordinance No. 2014-O-10


                      An Ordinance Amending Midvale City Municipal Code
                  Chapter 5.04 Denial, Suspension or Revocation of a License

       Whereas, the City Council desires to amend Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 5.04
Denial, Suspension or Revocation of a License; and

       Whereas, the City Council finds that a hearing officer can expeditiously schedule and
impartially hear appeals; and

       Whereas, the City Council finds it in the City's best interest to allow the City's
appointed hearing officer to hear business license denial, suspension, or revocation hearings; and

         Now, Therefore, Be It Ordained by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah as
follows:


       Section 1.     The City Council desires to amend Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 5.04
Denial, Suspension, or Revocation of a License as set forth in Exhibit A.

         Section 2.    This Ordinance is hereby adopted and retroactively enacted to September
1,2014.

         Passed and Approved this 18 day of November, 2014.




[seal]                                           Voting:
                                                 Stephen Brown       Yea \S Nay
                                                 Paul Glover         Yea \S Nay.
                                                 Paul Hunt           Yea \S Nay
                                                 Wayne Sharp         Yea il^ Nay




Attest




         mdreason,
Cityf Recorder

Published this jjL)_day ofNovember, 2014.
                                                      Chapter 5.04

                           denial, suspension or revocation of a license



Sections:
5.04.010    Denial of business license or alcoholic beverage license.
5.04.020    Reasons for suspension or revocation.
5.04.030    Enforcement.
5.04.040    License hearing board created.
5.04.050    Procedure for denial, suspension or revocation.
5.04.060    Hearing.
5.04.070    Decision of the hearing board.
5.04.080    Appeal of hearing board decision.
5.04.090    Licensing after revocation.
5.04.100    Validity of business license or alcoholic beverage license during appeal.
5.04.110    Business owner responsible for concessionaire.

5.04.010      Denial of business license or alcoholic beverage license.
After a person has made application to the city for a business license or alcoholic beverage license, the application
shall be denied if any of the following criteria apply:

A.   The applicant does not meet the qualifications for a licensee as provided under this title.

B. For a new application, nonpayment of a returned check for the required license fees, fines and/or penalties at
the time the application is made. For a business license renewal application, nonpayment of the required license
fees, fines and/or penalties if applicable under Section 5.02.100.

C. One of the reviewing departments or divisions of the city provided for in this title has disapproved the
application pursuant to any applicable provision of the city code.

D.   False or incomplete information given on the application.

E. The licensee is not complying with a requirement or condition set by the planning commission or planning and
zoning division, if applicable, under a conditional use permit or administrative conditional use permit; if applicable,
granting a variance; by the city council or board of adjustment; or by agreement.

F. Noncompliance with any city, state or federal statutes or any health department regulations governing the
applicant's proposed business.

G.   Any other reason expressly provided for in this title. (Ord. 10/28/20030-12 (part), 2003: Ord. 12-09-97G (part),
1997)

5.04.020      Reasons for suspension or revocation.
An existing business license or alcoholic beverage license shall be suspended or revoked if any of the following
criteria apply:

A. The licensee does not now meet the qualifications for a licensee as provided under this title;

B. False or incomplete information was given on an application;

C. The licensee has violated or is violating any provision of this title or provision of the city code, state or federal
statutes or regulations governing the licensee's business;

D. The licensee has obtained or aided another person to obtain a license by fraud or deceit;
E. The licensee has failed to file the appropriate documents with the State Tax Commission distributing the local
portion of sales tax to Midvale City;

F. The licensee has refused authorized representatives of the city to make an inspection or has interfered with such
representatives while in the performance of their duty in making such inspection;

G. The licensee is not complying with a requirement or condition set by the planning commission or planning and
zoning division, if applicable, under a conditional use permit or administrative conditional use permit; if applicable,
granting a variance or special exception; by the city council or board of adjustment; or by agreement;

H. Violation of this title by the agents or employees of a licensee and violations of any other laws by the agents or
employees committed while acting as an agent or employee of the licensee; or

I. Any other reason expressly provided for in this title. (Ord. 10/28/2003O-12 (part), 2003: Ord. 12-09-97G (part),
1997)

5.04.030        Enforcement.
A. The license administrator shall have the authority, without a hearing, to deny a license for the reasons provided
for in this chapter.

B. The license administrator shall have the authority to suspend or revoke a license without a hearing, for reasons
provided for in this chapter. However, the suspension or revocation shall not take effect until the time period for
appealing the decision as set forth in this chapter below has passed.

C The license administrator may, on his or her own initiative or in response to complaints from the general public
or any city department or division, investigate and gather evidence of violations of this title or other circumstances
which may give rise to a denial, suspension or revocation. (Ord. 10/28/20030-12 (part), 2003: Ord. 12-09-97G
(part), 1997)

5.04.040        License hearing board crcated.Hearing Examiner: Appointment and Powers.
There is created the license hearing board of Midvale City consisting of the members of the Midvale City council.A_
hearing officer shall be appointed by the city council. The license hearing boardhearing officer shall have authority
to hear evidence inand decide business license matters referred to the beard-officer and, after such hearing, shall
submit 4ts-theirrecommendations decision in writing to the office of the city administrator. (Ord. 10/28/20030-12
(part), 2003: Ord. 12-09-97G (part), 1997)

5.04.050        Procedure for denial, suspension or revocation.
A. In the event of a denial, suspension or revocation, the license administrator shall notify the applicant/licensee
by letter sent certified mail within two days of the decision to deny, suspend or revoke.

B.   The notification letter shall include the following information:

     1.    Name of applicant/licensee;

     2.    Reason for denial/suspension/revocation including indication of city, state or federal law violated;

     3. Explanation of right of applicant/licensee to appeal the decision of the license administrator;

     4.    Time frames and process for appeal;

     5. Indication that if the applicant/licensee chooses not to appeal within the specific time fame, the decision of
     the license administrator shall be considered final and the applicant licensee will be expected to comply
     immediately; and

     6.    Rights of applicant/licensee during pending appeal.

C    The applicant/licensee shall have the right to appeal the decision of the licenseadministrator to the license
hearing beardofficer.
D. Said appeal shall be in writing and submitted within fifteen days of the date of mailing of the certified letter
notifying the applicant/licensee of the denial/suspension/revocation.

E.   Said appeal shall contain the following information:

     1.    Name of applicant/licensee;

     2.    Set forth with specificity the reasons for which the appeal is taken;

     3.    Intent to be represented by legal counsel;

     4. Availability for a license beard-officer hearing within the next seven working days of the date of the letter
     of appeal. (Ord. 10/28/20030-12 (part), 2003: Ord. 12-09-97G (part), 1997)

5.04.060        Hearing.
A. The hearing shall be at a time, place and day set by the hearing beardofficer. but not later than seven working
days after receipt of the notice of appeal.

B. At the hearing, the hearing beard-officer or representative from the city attorney's office shall present the
reasons for the decision to deny, suspend or revoke the license.

C    The applicant or licensee, in person or through his or her attorney, may then present any evidence showing
reason why the decision was in error.

D.   All witnesses shall be sworn to testify truthfully. Either party is entitled to confront and cross-examine any
witnesses.

E. Any oral or documented evidence may be received, but the hearing beard-officer shall exclude all privileged,
irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence.

F. If the denial, suspension, or revocation appealed from is based on a finding by the building division, planning
and zoning division, fire department, health department or police department that the business was or would be in
violation of their applicable ordinances or regulations, and the division or department in question has fulfilled the
procedural requirements in all applicable ordinances, statutes and rules prior to making such finding, then that
finding shall be conclusive on the hearing beardofficer. and the board's officer's decision may be based only on
whether the license was properly denied, suspended, or revoked because of the building division's, planning and
zoning division's, fire department's, health department's or police department's finding.

G. If the appeal is based on a decision by the police department to deny, suspend, or revoke a police I.D. card
pursuantto failure of requirements as set forth in applicable city ordinances, the factual determinations of the police
department shall be conclusive, and the license hearing beafd-officer shall:

     1. Uphold the decision if the hearing beard-officer finds that the police department acted properly to deny,
     suspend or revoke the police I.D. card based on the factual determinations of the police department.

     2. Reverse the decision if the hearing beard-officer finds that the police department did not act properly to
     deny, suspend or revoke the police I.D. card based on the factual determinations of the police department, but
     hold the decision in abeyance for one year on the basis of mitigating circumstances. Such mitigating
     circumstances may include, but shall not be limited to, the following:

             a. The impact of the decision on a cardholder's employment possibilities or career, relative to the
             severity of the reason the I.D. card was denied; or

             b. The cardholder's completion, or willingness to complete, job skills training related to the cardholder's
             position, or approved counseling relative to the violation, not including court ordered counseling.

     3. If the decision of the police department is held in abeyance by the hearing beardofficer. an action by the
     applicantthat would cause the police departmentto deny, suspend or revoke the I.D. card pursuant to this
    sectionshall immediately reinstate the original decision of the police department and the applicant's I.D. card
    shall be automatically denied, suspended or revoked as the case may be.

    4. If the applicant appeals the decision of the police department regarding the I.D. card basedon a dispute of
    the department's factual findings, the applicant mustrequest a review of the decision by the police department.
    Therequest shall include a statement explaining which facts are disputed, and proofthat the police
    department's decision was in error. The police department shall respond to the applicant's request within thirty
    days. Theresponse shall uphold the decision and include proofsupporting the police department's findings, or
    modify the decision based on a review of the application.

H. Ifthe denial, suspension, or revocation appealed from is based on a determination by the license administrator
that grounds existed pursuant to this code, the hearing beard-officer may examine the factual nature of the grounds
and determine whether such grounds are sufficient to sustain the decision of the license administrator.

I. The license hearing beard-officerdoes not have the authority to waive compliance with applicable provisions of
the business license ordinances, nor can the hearing board extend deadlines set forth in the ordinances or change the
substance or form of the ordinances. (Ord. 10/28/20030-12 (part), 2003: Ord. 12-09-97G(part), 1997)

5.04.070     Decision of the hearing beardofficer.
The hearing beardofficer, after hearing all theevidence, shall announce itsdecision within seven days from the date
of hearing. The hearing beard-officer may affirm or reverse the decision of the license administrator. The decision
shall be in writing and shall be based only upon findings of fact. The hearing beard-officer maydesignate thatthe
prevailing party draft the findings of fact and order. Ifthe prevailing party drafts the findings of fact and order, the
opposing party shall have five days from the day the draft is submitted within which to file objections to the draft.
Upon resolution ofall objections to the draft, the hearing beard-officer shall release the findings of fact and order.
(Ord. 10/28/20030-12 (part), 2003: Ord. 12-09-97G (part), 1997)

5.04.080      Appeal of hearing bea<!d-offjcer_decision.
Any decision ofthe license hearing beafd-officer may be appealed by the applicant, licensee or city to the district
court within thirty days from when the written decision is made. (Ord. 10/28/20030-12 (part), 2003: Ord. 12-09-
97G (part), 1997)

5.04.090      Licensing after revocation.
Aperson whose license has been revoked may not be issued a license for a period oftwelve months after the
revocation. (Ord. 10/28/20030-12 (part), 2003: Ord. 12-09-97G (part), 1997)

5.04.100      Validity of business license or alcoholic beverage license during appeal.
Throughout the appeal process asoutlined above, a licensee holding a suspended or revoked business oralcoholic
beverage license may continue tooperate his orher business in accordance with federal, state and local laws pending
final decision on theappeal, or until thetime for appeal has passed, whichever occurs first. (Ord. 10/28/ 20030-12
(part), 2003: Ord. 12-09-97G (part), 1997)

5.04.110      Business owner responsible for concessionaire.
For the purposes ofbusiness orpremises owners who contract out the sale ofalcoholic beverages on the business
premises to an independent concessionaire, violation by such concessionaire ofany provision ofthis title shall
constitute grounds for suspension and/or revocation ofthe license ofbusiness or premises owner. (Ord.
10/28/20030-12 (part), 2003: Ord. 12-09-97G (part), 1997)
