                             ORDINANCE NO. 2014-O-09



   AN ORDINANCE MODIFYING THE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR
    PARKING IN THE FRONT SETBACK OF LARGE BUILDINGS IN THE
   JUNCTION AT MIDVALE OVERLAY (SECTIONS 17-7-9.12.2.6 AND 17-7-
  9.12.2.11 OF THE MIDVALE ZONING ORDINANCE); ALSO PROVIDING A
      SAVING CLAUSE AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE FOR THE ORDINANCE.

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Sections 10-9-401 through 10-9-405 Utah Code
Annotated 1953 as amended, the City has the authority to make and amend a zoning plan
which divides the City into zoning districts and within those districts to regulate the
erection, construction, re-construction, alteration, and uses of buildings and structures and
the uses of land jo promote the prosperity, improve the morals, peace and good order,
comfort, convenience, and aesthetics of the municipality; and

      WHERE AS, on January 2, 2002, the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance (Title 17)
became effective and may be subject to amendments from time to time; and

        WHEREAS, since this effective date, Midvale City has found a number of areas
thatrequire amendments to the text of the ordinance in order to correct errors and
omissions, clarifythe intent of the language, and/or include new provisions to further the
purpose and intent; and

        WHEREAS, it was determined that, in order to accommodate the parking needs
of larger office buildings that are anticipated in The Junction at Midvale Overlay, the
existing parking standards for large office buildings in this Overlay need to be modified;
and

        WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on August 13, 2014,
to review proposed text amendment language regarding this issue, with such meeting
being preceded by notice through publication in the Salt Lake Tribune and Deseret News
on July 30, 2014, and the Planning Commission forwarded a recommendation on such to
the City Council on August 13, 2014; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on
September 2, 2014, which meeting was preceded by notice through publication inthe Salt
Lake Tribune and Deseret News on August 19, 2014; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council has taken into consideration citizen testimony,
planning and bu lding analysis, and the Planning Commission recommendations, and has
determined that ihis text amendment is appropriate and within the best interests of the
City as a whole in protecting and promoting the health, safety, welfare and aesthetic
quality of Midvale City.

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale
City, Utah as fo lows:
       Section 1. The following chapters and sections of the Midvale City Zoning and
Subdivision Ord nance are hereby amended as included in ATTACHMENT A of this
document.


        Section 2. If any part of this ordinance or the applications thereof to any person
or circumstances shall, for any reason, be adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction
to be unconstitutional or invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair or invalidate the
remainder of this ordinance or the application thereof to other persons and circumstances,
but shall be conf ned to its operation to the section, subdivision, sentence or part of the
section and the persons and circumstances directly involved in the controversy in which
suchjudgment sliall have been rendered. It is hereby declared to be the intent of the City
Council that this section would have been adopted if such invalid section, provisions,
subdivision, senlence or part of a section or application had not been included.

           Section 3. This ordinance shall be effective upon publication of a summary
thereof.



           PASSEI AND APPROVED this$&day of v^7yfert//fl^, 2014.


                                                                         B. Seghini, Mayor


ATTEST:




Rpri Andreason, MMC
City Recorder

Date of first publications^        <VM4
Voting by City Council           •'Aye"        "Nay''
        Stephen Lrown
           Paul Glo\ er
           Robert Hide
           Paul Hun
           Wayne Sharp




                                                                 Ordinance No. 2014-O-09
                                   ATTACHMENT A

                                                                          Text Additions: Text
                                                                           Text Deletions: Text


17-7-9.12.2.6 Ret lil/office/flex and mixed-use lot and development standards.

The following stcindards apply to all new development in the retail/office/flex and mixed-
use land use areas:


  C.    Build-To ;_ine. The front setback line is the build-to line. All retail/office/flex and
mixed-use struclures located in Subareas 2, 3, and 5 shall address adjacent streets by
being constructed at the front yard setback, which is the build-to line. At least fifty
percent of the front elevation must be built at the build-to line on all interior lots and at
least thirty percent of the front elevation must be built at the build-to line on all corner
lots. Recessed plazas, courtyards and trellises are encouraged.


       1.   Exceptions.

            a. The applicant may increase the depth of the build-to line by up to fifteen
            feet if the variation is used to promote a pedestrian-oriented use, e.g., special
            landscaping, public plazas, outside seating for a restaurant, etc.

            b.   When a retail/office/flex or mixed-use structure is located within an area
            that il identified by the master plan as a predominately residential area, or
            when a structure is located adjacent to or on a street where residential
            structures are the dominant use, the build-to line shall be the same as that
            requiied for the dominant use on that block.

            &—V/hon ono ownor or lessee occupioo more than one hundred twenty
            thousand square feet of interior tenant spaco on one contiguous parcel or site,
            up4&fivo percent of tho total parking supplied, not to exceed twenty parking
            spae^is, may bo located botwoon the right of way and the front olovation so
            tef>g-iis thoy aro signed and usod exclusively as handicapped, visitor and/or
            visfor g executive parking. The remaining area in front ofthe building must be
            designed and constructod as a primarily podostrian spaco oven if limited
            vehiejlar access is allowed.

             c. When one owner or lessee occupies more than one hundred twenty
             thou: sand square feet of interior tenant space on one contiguous parcel or
             site, exclusive parking for handicapped, visitor and/or visiting executives may
             be p ovided for between the right-of-way and the front building elevation so
             long as they are signed accordingly. The maximum number of visitor and/or
             visiti ig executive parking stalls allowed inthis area will be calculated by
                                                 3                    Ordinance No. 2014-O-09
                   s,«
           multi| lying the square footage of the building by 0.0166 percent. Handicap
           stalls required in this area to meet building code are allowed in addition to this
           numter, and will not count against the number calculated above. In allowing
           parking within the front setback, the following must be provided to minimize
           the vi sual impact of the parking from the public way and continue to focus on
           the pedestrian nature of the area between the public way and the front
           entra ice of the building:

              i.         The parking area shall be constructed using specialty paving
                         (stamped and/or dyed concrete or pavers, etc.) and be designed to
                         provide a visual link between the pedestrian way and the building
                         entrance, identifying the area as primarily pedestrian in nature;
             ii.         Public plazas or building entry features shall be visually and physically
                         extended into the parking area to provide for further enhancement of
                         the pedestrian experience;
            iii.         The depth of the parking area shall be minimized to the greatest
                         extent possible!
            iv.          The parking area cannot encroach into any portion of required public
                         open space.




17-7-9.12.2.11 Parking standards.
In addition to these standards found in Section 17-7-9.6 of the Bingham Junction zone,
the following sta idards shall apply to the creation of surface and/or structured parking
lots and areas:


A.   Front Setbacks. No parking shall occur within the front setback of any building.

             1.          Exceptions. The following exceptions apply to the prohibition of parking
             within a front setback.


                         a.   When a single family attached or detached structure is located on
                         a local street and is set back at least eighteen feet from the property
                         line, a private driveway may be used for off-street parking.


                         &—When one owner or lessee occupies moro than ono hundred
                         twenty thousand square feet of interior tenant space on one
                          contiguous parcel or sito, up to fivo porcont of the total parking
                          supplied, not to exoood twenty parking spaces, may bo located
                          between the right-of way and the front elevation so long as they are
                          signed and used exclusively as handicapped, visitor and/or visiting
                          oxocutivo parking. The remaining area in front of the building must be

                                                   4                    Ordinance No. 2014-O-09
designed and constructed as a primarily pedestrian space even if
limited vehicular access is allowed.




b. When one owner or lessee occupies more than one hundred
twenty thousand square feet of interior tenant space on one
contiguous parcel or site, exclusive parking for handicapped, visitor
and/or visiting executives may be provided for between the right-of-
way and the front building elevation so long as they are signed
accordingly. The maximum number of visitor and/or visiting executive
parking stalls allowed in this area will be calculated by multiplying the
square footage of the building by 0.0166 percent. Handicap stalls
required in this area to meet building code are allowed in addition to
this number, and will not count against the number calculated above.
In allowing parking within the front setback, the following must be
provided to minimize the visual impact of the parking from the public
way and continue to focus on the pedestrian nature of the area
between the public way and the front entrance of the building:


     i.    The parking area shall be constructed using specialty paving
           (stamped and/or dyed concrete or pavers, etc.) and be
           designed to provide a visual link between the pedestrian way
           and the building entrance, identifying the area as primarily
           pedestrian in nature;
    ii.    Public plazas or building entry features shall be visually and
           physically extended into the parking area to provide for
           further enhancement of the pedestrian experience;
    iii.   The depth of the parking area shall be minimized to the
           greatest extent possible.
   iv.     The parking area cannot encroach into any portion of
           required public open space.




                                                Ordinance No. 2014-O-09
