                                 ORDINANCE NO. 2014-0-03

     AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 17-3-7 OF THE MID VALE CITY
MUNICIPAL CODE; ALSO PROVIDING A SAVING CLAUSE AND AN EFFECTIVE
DATE FOR THE ORDINANCE.

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 10-6-12 Utah Code Annotated 1953 as amended, the
City has authority to adopt the Midvale City Municipal Code; and

     WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah, held a public hearing regarding the
amendment of certain sections of Title 17 on March 18, 2014; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council found the proposed amendments appropriate in furthering
the goals and policies of the City of Midvale.

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah
as follows:

         Section 1.   The Municipal Code which sets forth the laws and policies within Midvale
City, is hereby amended as follows:

                                       See Attachment "A"

        Section 2. If any part of this ordinance or the applications thereof to any person or
circumstances shall, for any reason, be adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
unconstitutional or invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair or invalidate the remainder of
this ordinance or the application thereof to other persons and circumstances, but shall be
confined to its operation to the section, subdivision, sentence or part of the section and the
persons and circumstances directly involved in the controversy in which such judgment shall
have been rendered. It is hereby declared to be the intent of the City Council that this section
would have been adopted if such invalid section, provisions, subdivision, sentence or part of a
section or application had not been included.
           Section 3. This ordinance shall be effective upon date of first publication of a summary
thereof.




           PASSED AND APPROVED this / 5 day of                   C-i         , 2014.



                                                           Ca ul valk-
                                                 JoAnn 13. Seghini, Mayor

ATTEST:

    A      1 /
    Pk. ^ 4P                       ./
Rorit Andreason,
City'Recorder

Date of first publication: Ap2t*        7O 1L4


Voting by City Council                  "Aye"           "Nay"

                  Stephen Brown            ■/
                  Paul Glover              LZ

                  Robert Hale

                  Paul Hunt                               ■/-

                  Wayne Sharp
                                             Attachment "A"

                                        Ordinance No. 2014-0-03

    Midvale City Code 17-3-7, suggested amendments

    Purpose:
    The intent of this ordinance is to provide for appropriate off-premise electronic signage which
    uses clear, attractive graphics to highlight goods and services while: protecting the street views
    and vistas of pedestrians and motorists; protecting and shielding pedestrians and motorists from
    distractions of excessive motion, illumination and other safety hazards; protecting residents from
    glare and excessive illumination; provide clear standards for the design, installation and use of
    off-premise electronic display signs; and otherwise promoting and protecting the public health,
    safety, welfare and convenience by regulating the off-premise electronic display signs enabled
    by this section.


    Amend Section (D) so that the last sentence reads as follows:

    Alterations shall not be interpreted to include changing the text or copy of off-premise
    advertising signs, theater signs, outdoor bulletin or other similar signs which are designated to
    accommodate changeable copy, or modifying a sign to include an electronic display as described
    in Section 0 below.

    Add a new Section (0) as follows:

(0) Off-Premise Sign Upgrade. An existing off-premise sign may be modified, without affecting
     such sign's nonconforming use or non-complying structure status, to include an electronic
     display so long as the proposed modification complies with each of the following requirements:

1. The applicant must submit a complete application in accordance with Section 17-3- 7(F) and
   comply with the other requirements of the Midvale City Code.
2. The sign must be located along 1-15, 900 East/Husky Highway or State Street.
3. The electronic display may only use light emitting diode (LED) displays, or a similar technology
   approved by the planning and zoning department.
4. A changeable message sign face that utilizes lighting technologies (such as light emitting diodes)
   to create changeable messages shall be equipped with a light sensor that automatically adjusts the
   illuminance of the changeable message sign face as ambient lighting changes.
5. The interval between message changes on an electronic display shall not be more frequent than
   eight (8) seconds and the actual message rotation process must be accomplished in one quarter
   (1/4) second or less.
6. Electronic display sign faces which contain, include, or are illuminated by any flashing,
   intermittent, full motion video, scrolling, strobing, racing, blinking, changes in color, fade in or
   fade out or any other imitation of movement or motion, or any other means not providing
   constant illumination are prohibited.
7. Off-premise signs, that are within 600 linear feet along State Street or 900 East, and 500 linear
    feet along 1-15, as measured along the same side of the right-of-way as an off-premise sign that
    has been upgraded to include an electronic display, do not qualify to be upgraded.
8. Only one sign face of the same "layered" off-premise sign(s) (i.e.-two or more off-premise signs
    mounted in vertical tiers on the same support structure, so that such sign faces are effectively
    visible at the same time from any vantage point, as reasonably determined by the city) may be
    upgraded to include an electronic display.
9. Only one sign face of the same "side-by-side" off-premise sign(s) (i.e.-two or more off-premise
    signs mounted horizontally on the same support structure, so that such sign faces are effectively
    visible at the same time from any vantage point, as reasonably determined by the city) may be
    upgraded to include an electronic display.
10. Both faces of a double-sided off premise sign, facing opposite directions (i.e. mounted back to
    back on the same support structure, so that such sign faces are not visible at the same time from
    any vantage point), qualify to be upgraded to electronic displays.
11. The text, images and graphics of the sign shall be static and complete within themselves, without
    continuation in content to the next image or message or to any other sign.
12. In no event shall an electronic display sign face increase the nighttime ambient illumination
    when replacing an existing illuminated billboard face and in no event shall an electronic display
    sign face, replacing a non-illuminated billboard face, increase nighttime ambient illumination by
    more than 03 foot-candles. In both instances, this measurement will be determined when
    measured perpendicular to the electronic display sign face at a distance based on the sign face
    size in accordance with the following formula:

            Changeable message sign face size (in sq, ft)        Measurement Distance (in ft)
            0-100                                                100
            101-350                                              150
            651-1000                                             250

13. The applicant shall certify its compliance with the above illuminance within a week of operating
    the electronic display and shall produce a copy of the certification upon request.

14. Any off-premise sign face upgraded under this Section 0, to a sign located within three hundred
    fifty feet (350') and oriented toward a legally occupied residential dwelling, measured from the
    electronic display face to the residential dwelling, shall be required to adhere to a curfew as
    described below:

       (i) If an off-premise sign with an electronic display face is within three hundred fifty (350)
            feet of a legally occupied dwelling that is within a forty five (45) degree radius area
            measured from the center point of the electronic display face, then this electronic display
            face shall display only one (1) static illuminated message nightly from eleven (11) pm
            until 6:00 am; or
       (ii) If an off-premise sign with an electronic display face is within one hundred fifty (150)
            feet of a legally occupied dwelling that is within a ninety (90) degree radius area
            measured from the center point of the electronic display face then this electronic display
            face shall be shut off nightly from eleven (11) pm until 6:00 am.
   The curfew conditions in subsections 14(i) and 14(ii) above, are not applicable to the extent that
   the message displayed is and emergency public safety warning or alert, such as an "AMBER
   Alert".

15. No off premise sign located within a residential (SF-1, SF-2, RM-12, RM-25) or historic zoning
    (HC) district shall be upgraded to include an electronic display.
16. An upgrade may not increase the height or the size of the display area of the sign.
17. This Section 0 does not authorize the location of a new off-premise sign in a location not
    permitted or allowed under the existing and applicable ordinances.
