                                     MIDVALE CITY, UTAH


                                  ORDINANCE No. 2014 - 0-02

               AN ORDINANCE ENACTING MIDVALE MUNICIPAL CODE SECTION
               10.28 PROHIBITING THE UNSAFE TRANSFER OF MONEY OR
               OTHER PERSONAL PROPERTY IN A ROADWAY.


        WHEREAS, there have been increasing incidents of individuals and groups entering the
travel portion of a roadway and the entrances and exits of public parking lots to seek money
and/or personal property from motorists; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council finds that such incidents have the potential of distracting
drivers and causing (0 accidents and injuries to pedestrians and motorists, and (ii) damage to
property; and

         WHEREAS, these incidents also have the potential to slow and interrupt the safe and
orderly flow of traffic thereby causing (i) increased delay, (ii) vehicle idling and air pollution,
and (iii) motorist frustration, annoyance, anxiety and aggressive behavior; and

       WHEREAS, the City of Midvale desires to create a public atmosphere conducive to the
cautious, efficient, and less disconcerting flow of both pedestrian and vehicular traffic in and
near roadways, and desires to promote the public's health, safety and general welfare; and

         WHEREAS, the City Council finds that the transfer of money or other personal property to
and/or from a person in a motor vehicle while that vehicle is in the travel portion of a roadway
and at the entrances and exits of public parking lots impedes the flow of pedestrian and vehicular
traffic, delays travel, and contributes to increased vehicle idling and air pollution;

       WHEREAS, the City Council finds that the transfer of money or other personal property
between persons while a vehicle is not legally parked puts the health, safety, and general welfare
of driver and pedestrian at greater risk; and

       WHEREAS, on March 4, 2014, the City Council held a duly noticed public meeting to
consider this matter; and

        WHEREAS, after considering the facts and comments presented to the City Council, the
Council finds: (I) the provisions prohibiting the transfer of money and personal property in the
roadway as set forth below should be adopted for the reasons set forth above-including
promoting the orderly flow of traffic and reducing delay, vehicle idling and air pollution, and
motorist frustration, annoyance and hostility; and (ii) such action reasonably furthers the health,
safety and general welfare of the citizens of Midvale City.

       Now, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED             by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah as
follows:

SECTION I: Section 10.28 of the Midvale Municipal Code is hereby enacted as follows:
Section 10.28.010      Unlawful Transfer on a Roadway.

       (1) It is the intent of this Section to enhance the safety of pedestrians and motor vehicle
           occupants on public roadways and public parking lots within Midvale City limits; to
           assure the free, orderly, and undisrupted movement of motor vehicles on public
           roadways within Midvale City municipal limits; and to ensure that transactions
           between pedestrians and motorists within Midvale City limits are undertaken in an
           orderly manner and do not create motorist frustration, annoyance or hostility. This
           Section is intended to apply evenhandedly to all persons who engage in the activities
           proscribed regardless of their intent or any message they may be attempting to
           communicate incidental to the proscribed activity.

       (2) For purposes of this Section, the following definitions shall apply:

              a. "Roadway" means the travel portion of: (i) highways owned and maintained
                 by the State of Utah or Salt Lake County, and (ii) Midvale City streets
                 designated as collector or arterial streets.

              b. "Legally Parked" means a vehicle that is standing, stopped, or otherwise
                 appropriately parked in an area designed or legally authorized for parking.

       (3) It shall be unlawful for a person:

              a. while a pedestrian, to accept, take or otherwise obtain possession or control of
                 any money or personal property from a person within a motor vehicle while
                 that motor vehicle is within a Roadway or on publicly owned property used as
                 an entrance or exit to a Roadway;

              b. while a driver or passenger in a motor vehicle in a Roadway or on publicly
                 owned property used as an entrance or exit to a Roadway, to give, hand over,
                 or relinquish possession or control of any money or personal property to a
                 pedestrian.

       (4) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section, the activities proscribed by
           this Section shall not be unlawful if: (i) such actions are required as the result of a
           traffic accident, medical emergency, or similar exigent circumstances; (ii) such
           actions are directed by a peace officer or authorized traffic control officer in the
           course of their official duties, or (iii) the transaction is undertaken after the motor
           vehicle has been Legally Parked.

       (5) Any person violating this subsection shall be guilty of a Class C Misdemeanor.

SECTION II.           If a provision of this Ordinance conflicts with a provision of a previously
adopted ordinance, this Ordinance shall prevail.

SECTION III            This Ordinance and its various sections, clauses and paragraphs are hereby
declared to be severable. If any part, sentence, clause or phrase is adjudged to be
unconstitutional or invalid, the remainder of the Ordinance shall not be affected thereby.

                                                 2
SECTION IV.          The Municipal Council hereby directs that the official copy of the Midvale
City Code be updated to reflect the provisions enacted by this Ordinance.

SECTION V.             This Ordinance shall take effect immediately after being posted or
published as required by law.

       ADOPTED by the City Council of Midvale, Utah, this 4 th day of March, 2014.




                                                VOTING BY THE CITY COUNCIL:
Published this THI-day of March, 2014.          Stephen Brown       Yea V Nay
                                                Paul Glover         Yea V Nay
                                                Robert Hale         Yea v Nay
                                                Paul Hunt           Yea 1,/ Nay
                                                Wayne Sharp         Yea     Nay




                                                3
