                             ORDINANCE NO. 2015-0-08


AN ORDINANCE MODIFYING THE GARAGE SETBACK EXCEPTION TO
THE SIDE YARD SETBACK FOR ATTACHED GARAGES IN THE SINGLE
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (SF-1) ZONE DISTRICT (SECTION 17-7-1.4 A OF
THE MID VALE MUNICIPAL CODE); ALSO PROVIDING A SAVING CLAUSE
AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE FOR THE ORDINANCE.

        WHEREAS, pursuant to Sections 10-9a-501 through 10-9a-504 Utah State Code,
the City has the authority to make and amend a zoning plan which divides the City into
zoning districts and within those districts to regulate the erection, construction, re-
construction, alteration, and uses of buildings and structures and the uses of land to
promote the prosperity, improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, convenience,
and aesthetics of the municipality; and

        WHEREAS, on January 2, 2002, the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance (Title 17 of
the Midvale Municipal Code) became effective and may be subject to amendments from
time to time; and

        WHEREAS, since this effective date, Midvale City has found a number of areas
that require amendments to the text of the ordinance in order to correct errors and
omissions, clarify the intent of the language, and/or include new provisions to further the
purpose and intent; and

        WHEREAS, on April 7, 2015, the Midvale City Council adopted Ordinance No.
2015-0-03, creating an exception to the required side yard setback for existing attached
garages to allow the owners of older, single-family residential housing stock to expand
single-car garages into more usable space; and

       WHEREAS, following the adoption of the garage setback exception, an issue
was discovered with the specific language regarding garage depth that required further
modification to the original ordinance; and

        WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on August 12, 2015
to review proposed modifying text amendment language regarding this issue, with such
meeting being preceded by notice through publication in the Salt Lake Tribune and
Deseret News on July 29, 2015, and the Planning Commission forwarded a
recommendation on such to the City Council on August 26, 2015; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on
September 15, 2015, which meeting was preceded by notice through publication in the
Salt Lake Tribune and Deseret News on September 1, 2015; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council has taken into consideration citizen testimony,
planning and building analysis, and the Planning Commission recommendation, and has
determined that this text amendment to modify the existing ordinance language is
appropriate and within the best interests of the City as a whole in protecting and
promoting the health, safety, welfare and aesthetic quality of Midvale City.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale
City, Utah as follows:

       Section 1. The following chapter and section of the Midvale Municipal Code are
hereby amended as included in ATTACHMENT A of this document.

        Section 2. If any part of this ordinance or the applications thereof to any person
or circumstances shall, for any reason, be adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction
to be unconstitutional or invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair or invalidate the
remainder of this ordinance or the application thereof to other persons and circumstances,
but shall be confined to its operation to the section, subdivision, sentence or part of the
section and the persons and circumstances directly involved in the controversy in which
such judgment shall have been rendered. It is hereby declared to be the intent of the City
Council that this section would have been adopted if such invalid section, provisions,
subdivision, sentence or part of a section or application had not been included.

           Section 3. This ordinance shall be effective upon publication of a summary
thereof.

           PASSED AND APPROVED this I9Aday of 3t/OkAlea_ , 2015.




Rot i Andreas'on, MMC
City Recorder

Date of first publication:S4A

Voting by City Council           "Aye"          "Nay"
       Stephen Brown
       Paul Glover                  tr"
       Paul Hunt
       Wayne Sharp                  Jr"
       Quinn Sperry




                                               2                  Ordinance No. 2015-0-08
                                           ATTACHMENT A
         SF-1 Zone District — Garage Side Yard Setback Exception Amended

                                                                                       Text Additions
                                                                                       Text Deletions


17-7-1.4 Development standards.

The following development standards apply to all new development in the zone:


A. Setbacks. The minimum setbacks in the zone are as follows:



      2. Side. The minimum side yard setback is eight feet, subject to the following exceptions:

           a.    Projection. Sills, cornices, chimneys, flues, eaves and ornamental features may
            project into the side yard up to two and one-half feet.

            b.   Stairs and Landings. Outside stairways and landings required by building code
           for exterior doorways may project into the side yard up to three feet.

           c.    Single Family Attached Structure. In the case of a preexisting single family
           attached structure, the structure shall be exempt from the interior side yard setback.

            d.   Attached Single-Car Garages and Carports. In the case where an existing single
           family residence has an attached garage or carport that accommodates less than two
            cars because of its width, the garage or carport may be extended to four feet from the
            side property line provided the following items are satisfied. (For purposes of this
            provision, "existing" is defined as structures built before the adoption of this provision.)

                  i.     The extended structure area is for a garage use only; the encroachment into
                  the side yard setback cannot be used as habitable space.

                  ii.    The extended structure shall not exceed one story, and shall not extend
                  above the roofline of the existing residential structure.

                  iii.    The width of the garage or carport shall not exceed twenty-four feet;.

                  iv. theThe depth of the garage or carport shall not exceed twenty-four feet or
                  the depth of the existing garage or carport, whichever is greater. The existing
                  depth of the garage shall not include storage areas or additions that are outside
                  the existing roofline of the garage.

                  v.     Eaves may extend an additional one foot beyond the outside wall of the
                  garage or carport; no other projections, including stairs and landings, shall be
                  allowed within the four-foot setback.

                  vi.     All building codes shall be addressed.



                                                     3                     Ordinance No. 2015-0-08
vii.    This exception is intended to provide a property owner of an older home
with an attached single-car garage or carport the ability to have a standard
attached two-car garage or carport where it otherwise would not be allowed
because of the eight-foot side yard setback.

viii.   All new home construction shall comply with the eight-foot side yard
setback This includes situations where the existing house is demolished and
replaced with a new structure.




                                  4                    Ordinance No. 2015-0-08
