                             ORDINANCE NO. 2015-O-01



AN   ORDINANCE         CREATING        NEW     DEVELOPMENT           STANDARDS         FOR
SPORTS/ATHLETIC FACILITY FENCING AND LIGHTING FOR RETAIL/
OFFICE/FLEX/MIXED USE PROJECTS IN THE BINGHAM JUNCTION ZONE
AND RIVERWALK OVERLAY, AND ADDING A NEW SIGN TYPE AND
STANDARDS FOR COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS IN SUBAREAS 2, 3 AND 5 OF
THE BINGHAM JUNCTION ZONE (SECTIONS 17-7-9.12.1.8 C, 17-7-9.6 F, 17-2-
1, 17-2-19, 17-7-9.4 D, 17-7-9.4.2 D, 17-7-9.4.3 D AND 17-7-9.4.5 D OF THE
MIDVALE MUNICIPAL CODE); ALSO PROVIDING A SAVING CLAUSE AND
AN EFFECTIVE DATE FOR THE ORDINANCE.


        WHEREAS, pursuant to Sections 10-9-401 through 10-9-405 Utah Code
Annotated 1953 as amended, the City has the authority to make and amend a zoning plan
which divides the City into zoning districts and within those districts to regulate the
erection, construction, re-construction, alteration, and uses of buildings and structures and
the uses of land to promote the prosperity, improve the morals, peace and good order,
comfort, convenience, and aesthetics of the municipality; and

       WHEREAS, on January 2,2002, the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance (Title 17 of
the Midvale Municipal Code) became effective and may be subject to amendments from
time to time; and

        WHEREAS, since this effective date, Midvale City has found a number of areas
that require amendments to the text of the ordinance in order to correct errors and
omissions, clarify the intent of the language, and/or include new provisions to further the
purpose and intent; and

       WHEREAS, it was determined that, in order to accommodate larger commercial
outdoor recreation/entertainment type uses that are anticipated in the Bingham Junction
Zone, new development standards needed to be created; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on December 17,
2014, to review proposed text amendment language regarding this issue, with such
meeting being preceded by notice through publication in the Salt Lake Tribune and
Deseret News on December 3, 2014, and the Planning Commission forwarded a
recommendation on such to the City Council on December 17, 2014; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on
January 20, 2015, which meeting was preceded by notice through publication in the Salt
Lake Tribune and Deseret News on January 6, 2015; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council has taken into consideration citizen testimony,
planning and building analysis, and the Planning Commission recommendations, and has
determined that this text amendment is appropriate and within the best interests of the
City as a whole in protectingand promoting the health, safety, welfare and aesthetic
quality of Midvale City.
       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale
City, Utah as follows:

        Section 1. The following chapters and sections of the Midvale Municipal Code
are hereby amended as included in ATTACHMENTS A, B and C of this document.

        Section 2. If any part of this ordinance or the applications thereof to any person
or circumstances shall, for any reason, be adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction
to be unconstitutional or invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair or invalidate the
remainder of this ordinance or the application thereof to other persons and circumstances,
but shall be confined to its operation to the section, subdivision, sentence or part of the
section and the persons and circumstances directly involved in the controversy in which
such judgment shall have been rendered. It is hereby declared to be the intent of the City
Council that this section would have been adopted if such invalid section, provisions,
subdivision, sentence or part of a section or application had not been included.

           Section 3. This ordinance shall be effective upon publication of a summary
thereof.



           PASSED AND APPROVED this^^Bay of ^4/Ul&faX ,2015


                                                                  JoAnn B. Seghini, Mayor


ATTEST:




                                    (TV
   ri Andreason, MMC
City Recorder

Date offirst publication: ^j(fa ^5, ^01*3
Voting by City Council          "Aye;           'Nay"
       Stephen Brown
           Paul Glover
           Paul Hunt               z
           Wayne Sharp             S
           Quinn Sperry            t/




                                                                 Ordinance No. 2015-O-01
                                           ATTACHMENT A

                     RIVERWALK OVERLAY - FENCING AMENDMENT


                                                                                          Text Additions
                                                                                          Text Deletions


17-7-9.12.1.8 Retail/office/flex and mixed-use architectural standards.


All new development must present an attractive, coordinated streetscape, incorporate architectural and

site design elements appropriate to a pedestrian scale and provide for the safety and convenience of

pedestrians. All new development shall comply with the following architectural standards:


A.   Walls. No more than three materials shall be used for primary wall surfaces. Exterior finishes shall

be of traditional, time- and weather-tested techniques. Retaining and screening walls shall be of

materials complementary to the building's materials. Buildings shall use a cohesive palette of colors

which complement nearby buildings. Without limiting the use of color, large areas of wall shall be

subdued in color and not reflective. Intense colors should be used as accent only.


B.   Roofs. All the roofs and dormer roofs of a building shall be constructed of the same material.

Slopes of roofs shall be of equal pitch if a gable or hip roof is employed. All metal roofs must be of a

subdued color. Painted roof shingles are prohibited.


C.   Fences, Hedges, and Walls. The following standards apply to new development of fences,

hedges and walls:


               1.   Required Setbacks. A fence, hedge, wall, column, pier, post, or any similar

               structure or any combination of such structures is permitted in the required setback of a

               zone district if it meets the following conditions:


                     a.   All fences and walls meet the requirements of Title 15 of this code, Buildings

                     and Construction;


                     b.   No fence, hedge, or wall extends beyond or across a property line without a

                     recorded agreement with the abutting property owner;


                     c.   No fence, hedge, or wall may be placed nearer than six inches to any public

                     sidewalk;




                                                                            Ordinance No. 2015-O-01
      d.         Only one fence or wall shall be allowed per property line. Double fences,

      walls or combination thereof are prohibited; and


      e.         No barbed wire or other sharp, pointed, or electrically charged fence may be

      erected or maintained, except a temporary fence on a construction site to protect

      the property during the period of construction may be topped with barbed wire

      where the barbed wire is not less than eight feet above the ground and does not

      extend more than two feet above the temporary fence.


2.   Height. No fence structures may exceed six feet in height, four feet in height from
the front of the primary structure forward, or three feet in the sight distance triangle,

measured as follows:



      a.         In a required yard abutting a street, the total effective height above the

      finished grade measured on the side nearest the street;


      b.         In any other required yard, the total effective height above the finished grade
      measured on the side nearest the abutting property;


      c.         On a property line, measured from the finished grade of either side when the
      abutting property owners are in agreement; and


      d.         A temporary fence on a construction site may be as high as required to

      protect the property during the period of construction.


3.   Athletic Facilities. Fencing around athletic facilities, including, without limitation,

tennis courts, may be fourteen feet in height so long as all portions above six feet are
constructed with at least fifty percent non-opaque materials. Fencing around golf
courses and driving ranges may be constructed to a height such that 99% of all errant
objects are contained as demonstrated by the applicant through submittal of
appropriate data/studies and approved by the Planning Commission. This fencing shall
comply with the following requirements:

          ...




     a.         All golf course and driving range netting shall be constructed of

                and be at least 90% transparent; ^_^^^^^^^__^^^^^^
     b.         The minimum setbacks shall be the same as for structures in the zone.

                Setbacks may be increased by the Planning Commission if it is found


                                            4                      Ordinance No. 2015-O-01
          necessary to provide appropriate buffering from roadways and adjacent

          properties; ____m_^^^^_m___^^^^^_^^___^^^^^^___
     c.   Landscape buffering shall be provided to visually soften the fencing from the
          vantage point of the motorist and pedestrian. Buffering may include plant
          materials, berming, or a combination thereof;
     d.   Poles for fencing shall be painted black, bronze or blue/grey to blend with the
          sky. The Planning Commission, based upon a color study submitted by the
          applicant, shall approve the final color scheme for the poles; and

     e.   Any other conditions deemed necessary by the Planning Commission pursuant
          to the General Review Criteria noted in Section 17-7-9.9 of the Municipal Code
          to mitigate the impacts of the fencing on the surrounding area.


4.   Conformance with This Section. No person shall construct, alter, or maintain a

fence, hedge, wall, column, pier, post, or any similar structure or any combination of

such structures except in conformance with all of the requirements of this section.




                                                            Ordinance No. 2015-O-01
                                               ATTACHMENT B

                                      BINGHAM JUNCTION ZONE

                LIGHTINGi FOROUTDOOR.ATHLETIC^FACILITIES AMENDMENT

                                                                                                Text Additions
                                                                                                Text Deletions
17-7-9.6 Parking.                    ^^^^^^^
F.    Outdoor Lighting Standards. LED, induction, high-pressure sodium, or metal halide light sources

are the only allowed light sources for outdoor lighting. Light levels should be designed with minimum
light trespass off-site by using a cut-off luminaire that is fully or partially shielded with little or no light
distributed above the horizontal plane of the Luminaire or other best practices that are available.


           1.   Maximum Light Distribution. For uniformity in lighting and prevention of shadows, a four to
           one uniformity ratio shall occur over the site, excluding canopy areas and main building
           entrances. The maximum allowed average horizontal luminance level and light source shall

           be as noted in the following table.



Use                 Maximum Average Foot candle                     Light Source

Building            5f.c.                                           LED, induction, metal halide or high-

entrance                                                            pressure sodium

Canopies            20 f.c.                                         LED, induction, metal halide or high-

                                                                    pressure sodium

Retail car lots     Front row 10 f.c. or less                       LED, induction, metal halide or high-

                                                                    pressure sodium

                    2 f.c. average over site



                    50% reduction in light levels between

                    midnight and sunrise

Commercial          2 f.c.                                          LED, induction, metal halide or high-

uses                                                                pressure sodium

Residential         1 f.c.                                          150 watt high-pressure sodium or wattage
                                                                    equivalent LED or induction on 15' poles

                                                                    @ 250' spacing

T.O.D. and          2 f.c.                                          LED, induction or metal halide in parking


                                                                                  Ordinance No. 2015-O-01
mixed-use                                                           areas; LED, induction or high-pressure

                                                                    sodium for all other areas


Outdoor                 As determined by Planning Commission         As determined by Planning Commission

Athletic                based on documentation and light studies based on documentation and light studies

Facilities              submitted by the applicant.                  submitted by the applicant.




           2.     Pole Height/Design/Height. Luminaire mounting height is measured from the parking lot

           or driveway surface, and may range from twenty feet to thirty-five feet, based on:


                  a.     Review of the site plan;


                  b.     Proposed land uses;


                  c.     Surrounding land uses;


                  d.     Parking area size;


                  e.     Building mass;


                  f.    Location of the site with respect to other lighting sources;


                   g.    Impacts on the adjacent properties;


                   h.    Topography of site; and


                   i.   Other site features.



             3.   Large Parking Areas. Poles higher than twenty feet are appropriate only for parking areas
             exceeding two hundred stalls and not in close proximity to residential areas.


             4.   Design Standard.


                   a.    If metal fixtures or poles are used they should be black or dark brown;


                   b.    The base of the pole shall be treated with paint, stain, stucco or another form of
                   decorative cover. All attempts shall be made to place the base of light poles within

                   landscape areas;



                                                                                  Ordinance No. 2015-O-01
     c.       Wall-mounted lighting fixtures may not exceed eighteen feet in height; and


     d.           Lighting located along pedestrian pathways or in areas primarily dedicated to human

     activity may not exceed twelve feet in height.


     e. Lighting for outdoor athletic facilities may be mounted on a roof or wall at a height

     above the typical eighteen foot maximum provided it is demonstrated by the applicant

     through submittal of appropriate documentation and light studies showing that the facility
     cannot otherwise be properly lighted. This lighting shall comply with the following

     requirements:


             i.       Light fixtures and necessary supports shall not extend more than four feet

                      above the roof line;

           ii.        Light fixtures shall include appropriate shields to ensure no light trespass off the



           iii.       Light fixtures shall include appropriate shields and louvers to minimize, to the
                      greatest extent possible, any point source light pollution;
           iv.        Light fixtures and supports shall be painted to blend with the color scheme of
                      the structure to which they are mounted;
           v.         Light fixtures shall be dimmable to address any possible unforeseen light
                      impacts once they are constructed and operable; and

           vi.        The Planning Commission shall review the hours of light usage, and shall

                      approve an appropriate usage schedule depending on the specific situation and

                      impacts on the surrounding area.


5.   Submission Requirements. An application for development with outdoor lighting must

contain the following:


     a.           Plans indicating the location on the premises and the type of illumination devices,
     fixtures, lamps, supports, reflectors, installation and electrical details;


      b.          Description of illuminating devices, fixtures, lamps, supports, reflectors, and other

      devices that may include, but is not limited to, manufacturer catalog cuts and drawings,

      including section where required; and




                                                                           Ordinance No. 2015-O-01
c.   Photometric data, such as that furnished by manufacturers or similar showing the
angle of the cut-offor light emission. A point-by-point light plan may be required to
determine the adequacy of the lighting over the site.




                                                             Ordinance No. 2015-O-01
                                           ATTACHMENT C

                                    BINGHAM JUNCTION ZONE

                        COMMERCIAL BUILDING SIGN AMENDMENT

                                                                                        Text Additions
                                                                                        Text Deletions




17-2-1 "A" definitions.



Abandoned sign" means a sign structure which no longer identifies or advertises a bona fide business,
lessor, service, owner, product, or activity, or for which no legal owner can be found. Within one year
after vacation of a tenant or change of ownership in an existing business, all on-site nonconforming
signs must be removed or brought into compliance by the property owner. Nonconforming off-premises
signs lacking advertising for a period of one year shall also be considered abandoned. If removal does
not occur voluntarily, Midvale City may remove the entire nonconforming sign, both face and structure,
and all costs incurred shall be the responsibility of the property owner. Once determined abandoned

and nonconforming, such signs shall not regain any legal nonconforming status later, even ifthe
original business re-occupies the property.


"Abovecanopy sign" means a sign which is mounted entirely above the front fascia of a canopy and
oriented parallel to the building wall surface.




                                                                  Above Canopy Sign




"Access" means vehicular and/or pedestrian ingress and egress to structures, facilities or property.
                                                   10                      Ordinance No. 2015-O-01
17-2-19 "S" definitions.



"Sign" means any words, letters, parts of letters, figures, numerals, phrases, sentences, emblems,
devices, trade names or trademarks, by which anything is made known, such as are used to designate
an individual, a firm, an association, a corporation, a profession, a business, a commodity, or product,
which are visiblefrom any publicway. "Sign" also includes the sign structure supports, lighting system
and any attachments, ornaments or other features intended to draw the attention of observers.

Sign, abandoned. See "Abandoned sign."


5ign, above canopy. See "Above canopy sign.


Sign, A-frame. See "A-frame sign."


Sign, animated. See "Animated sign."




17-7-9.4 D.      Sign Standards Common to All or Multiple Subareas.


                 14.       Above Canopy Signs. Above canopy signs are permitted as follows:


                           a.   The canopy shall be a horizontal element on the building and shall not
                           include a sloped roof. The canopy design and color shall relate to the
                           building entrance, shall not extend more than five (5) feet over the sidewalk,
                           and shall be at least eight (8) feet above the sidewalk;
                           b. The sign height shall not exceed one and one half (1%) times the fascia
                           height or four (4) feet, whicheveris less. In no instances shall the sign
                           project above the building roofline.
                           c.   The sign width shall not exceed 80% of the canopy width;
                           d. The sign shall only be located above the front fascia of the canopy;
                           e. The sign shall project no farther from the building than the associated
                           canopy;    ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^_
                           f.   The sign shall be constructed of individual letters only and shall include
                           only one line oflettering;        ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
                           g. The sign may be externally or internally illuminated; and

                                                        11                  Ordinance No. 2015-O-01
                          h. The sign area used for the above canopy sign shall be included in any
                          calculation of wall sign area.


17-7-9.4.2 DSign Standards Specific to Subarea 2; and 17-7-9.4.3 DSign Standards Specific to
Subarea 3; and 17-7-9.4.5 D Sign Standards Specific to Subarea 5.


C = Commercial



R = Residential



MF = Apartments and Condos


Sign Type         Sign Area Max.         Height Max.          General Restrictions




A-Frame (C, MF)   6s.f.                  4'                   One per ground level tenant. Must not
                                                              impede pedestrian movement.



Above Canopy      80% of width; part      1 !4 times fascia   Constructed of individual letters one line of

Sign (C)          of allowed wall sign height or 4',          copy. Canopy cannot have sloped roof.

                  percentage             whichever is less




Awning/Canopy     5% of wall surface;     80% of vertical     Constructed of canvas-like materials or

(C, MF)           80% of width            drip                architectural metal. Design and color to

                                                              relate to storefront. May extend 5' from

                                                              facade at least 8' above sidewalk.



Campaign (C, R, 32 s.f.                   6'                  Removed within 15 days from final voting

MF)                                                           day. 3' max. height in clear view triangle.




                                                     12                     Ordinance No. 2015-O-01
