                             ORDINANCE NO. 2015-O-04



AN     ORDINANCE           MODIFYING          THE       REVIEW         PROCESS        AND
REQUIREMENTS FOR APIARIES IN THE SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
(SF-1) ZONE DISTRICT (CHAPTER 17-7-1 OF THE MIDVALE MUNICIPAL
CODE) AND THE SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (SF-2) ZONE DISTRICT
(CHAPTER 17-7-2 OF THE MIDVALE MUNICIPAL CODE); ALSO
PROVIDING A SAVING CLAUSE AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE FOR THE
ORDINANCE.


       WHEREAS, pursuant to Sections 10-9a-501 through 10-9a-503 Utah State Code,
the City has the authority to make and amend a zoning plan which divides the City into
zoning districts and within those districts to regulate the erection, construction, re
construction, alteration, and uses of buildings and structures and the uses of land to
promote the prosperity, improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, convenience,
and aesthetics of the municipality; and

       WHEREAS, on January 2, 2002, the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance (Title 17 of
the Midvale Municipal Code) became effective and may be subject to amendments from
time to time; and

        WHEREAS, since this effective date, Midvale City has found a number of areas
that require amendments to the text of the ordinance in order to correct errors and
omissions, clarify the intent of the language, and/or include new provisions to further the
purpose and intent; and

       WHEREAS, it has been determined that the current review process and
requirements for apiaries in the single-family residential zones of the City discourages
beekeeping in the City; and

        WHEREAS, it has been determined that bees are needed to allow flora to flourish
within the City; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on February 11,
2015 to review proposed text amendment language regarding this issue, with such
meeting being preceded by notice through publication in the Salt Lake Tribune and
Deseret News on January 28, 2015, and the Planning Commission forwarded a
recommendation on such to the City Council on March 25, 2015; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on
April 21, 2015, which meeting was preceded by notice through publication in the Salt
Lake Tribune and Deseret News on April 7, 2015; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council has taken into consideration citizen testimony,
planning and building analysis, and the Planning Commission recommendations, and has
determined that this text amendment is appropriate and within the best interests of the
City as a whole in protectingand promotingthe health, safety, welfare and aesthetic
quality of Midvale City.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale
City, Utah as follows:

           Section 1. The following chapters and sections of the Midvale Municipal Code
are hereby amended as included in the attachment to this document.

        Section 2. If any part of this ordinance or the applications thereofto any person
or circumstances shall, for any reason, be adjudged by a court of competentjurisdiction
to be unconstitutional or invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair or invalidate the
remainder of this ordinance or the application thereof to other persons and circumstances,
but shall be confined to its operation to the section, subdivision, sentence or part of the
section and the persons and circumstances directly involved in the controversy in which
suchjudgment shall have been rendered. It is hereby declared to be the intent of the City
Council that this section would have been adopted if such invalid section, provisions,
subdivision, sentence or part of a section or application had not been included.

           Section 3. This ordinance shall be effective upon publication of a summary
thereof.


           PASSED AND APPROVED this^/^dayof




ATTEST:




                         4mffiT}
Rori Andreason, MMC
City Recorder

                                              s

    ing by City Council         "Aye"          "Nay"
        Stephen Brown
       Paul Glover
       Paul Hunt
       Wayne Sharp
       Quinn Sperry                 iX




                                                                 Ordinance No. 2015-O-04
                                              ATTACHMENT

                            SF-1 and SF-2 Zone Districts - Beekeeping

                                                                                             Text Additions
                                                                                             Text Dolotiono



17-7-1.2 Use table.

Ifa use is not specifically designated, then it is prohibited.



                                            Table 17-7-1.2 Uses



Type                              Allowed            Administrative        Conditional       Business

                                                                                             License


Agricultural Uses (AO zone
                                                     X
only)

Apiary                                               X                     X


Assisted Living Facility,
                                                                           X                 X
Group Home




17-7-2.2 Use table.

If a use is not specifically designated, then it is prohibited.



                                            Table 17-7-2.2 Uses



                                                                                                 Business

              Type                      Allowed           Administrative       Conditional       License


Accessory Structure,
                                    X
Unoccupied

Apiary                                                X                    X


Assisted Living Facility, Group
                                                                           X                 X
Home




                                                                                Ordinance No. 2015-O-04
Eliminate Sections 17-7-1.11 (B) (1) (h) and 17-7-2.11 (B) (1) (h) in the ordinance
and add the following language to new Sections 17-7-1.11 (B) (2) (i) and 17-7-2.11
(B)(2)(i):
             Apiary. The purpose of this subsection is to establish certain requirements of sound
             beekeeping practices, which are intended to avoid problems that may otherwise be
             associated with the keeping of bees in populated areas.

             i. No more than the following number of colonies may be kept on any tract within the
             city, based upon the size of the tract upon which the apiary is situated:


                          (A)   One third aoro to Less than or equal to one-half acre in size: ono colony
                          two colonies;


                          (B)   More than one-half acre in size: twe five colonies.

                  ii.    A site plan shall be submitted for review by the planning commission
                  community development department addressing the following:


                          (A)   Any colony situated within twenty-five feet of a public or private property
                          line shall require the establishment of a flyway barrier at least six feet in height
                          consisting of a solid wall, fence, dense vegetation or combination thereof as
                          approved by the planning commission community development department.

                          Said barrier shall be parallel to the property line extending ten feet beyond the
                          colony in each direction, forcing a flight pattern elevation of at least six feet

                          above grade.


                          (B)   A water source shall be provided on the property and no nearer than
                          twenty feet to the hive to avoid bees congregating on nearby properties in a
                          search for water.



                          (C)   A sign conspicuously posted setting forth the name and phone number or
                          other identifying marks, such as a registration number, of the responsible
                          beekeeper.


                  iii.   In addition to the aforementioned conditions, the applicant shall ensure
                  compliance at all times with the following conditions:


                          (A)   All honey bee colonies shall be kept in Langstroth-type hives with

                          removable frames, which shall be kept in sound and usable condition.


                                                       4                       Ordinance No. 2015-O-04
           (B)   All honey bee colonies shall be registered with the Utah Department of

           Agriculture and Consumer Services.


           (C)      Maintenance shall be such that no bee comb or other materials are left

           upon the grounds of the apiary site. Upon removal from the hive, all such

           materials shall promptly be disposed of in a sealed container or placed within a
           building or other bee-proof enclosure.


           (D)   All colonies shall be maintained with marked queens. The colony shall be
           promptly re-queened if it exhibits unusual aggressive characteristics by

           stinging or attempting to sting without due provocation or swarming.

           Regardless of colony behavior, each colony shall be re-queened on a yearly
           basis.



           (E)   Each Utah apiary shall meet all requirements and inspection schedules

           deemed necessary by the Utah Department of Agriculture and Consumer

           Services.



           (F)   Notwithstanding compliance with the various requirements of this

           subsection, it shall be unlawful for any beekeepers to keep any colony or

           colonies in such a manner or of such disposition as to cause any unhealthy

           condition, interfere with the normal use and enjoyment of human or animal life

           of others or interfere with the normal use and enjoyment of any public property

           or property of others.


Upon receipt of information that any colony situated within the city is not being kept in
compliance with the conditions set forth by the planning commission pursuant to the
approved conditional use permit, may result in an investigation and subsequent
hearing before the city's hearing officer per Chapter 8.05 and the planning
commission appeal authority per Chapter 17-3 of the Midvale Municipal Code may
result and may result in the revocation of the conditional use permit.




                                                               Ordinance No. 2015-O-04
