                                      ORDINANCE NO. 2015-0-12

AN ORDINANCE CREATING A NEW DEFINITION AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
FOR ELECTRIFIED SECURITY FENCING FOR NON-RESIDENTIAL OUTDOOR STORAGE
AREAS IN THE CLEAN INDUSTRIAL ZONE DISTRICTS (SECTIONS 17-2-5, 17-2-6, 17-7-13.2,
AND 17-7-13.9 B.l.f OF THE MIDVALE MUNICIPAL CODE); ALSO PROVIDING A SAVING
CLAUSE AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE FOR THE ORDINANCE.


         WHEREAS, pursuant to Sections 10-9-401 through 10-9-405 Utah Code Annotated 1953 as
amended, the City has the authority to make and amend a zoning plan which divides the City into zoning
districts and within those districts to regulate the erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, and
uses of buildings and structures and the uses of land to promote the prosperity, improve the morals, peace
and good order, comfort, convenience, and aesthetics of the municipality; and

        WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 10-6-12 Utah Code Annotated 1953 as amended, the City has
the authority to adopt and amend the Midvale City Municipal Code;

       WHEREAS, Midvale City was made aware of additional uses not contemplated when the Zoning
Ordinance was originally adopted with regard to fencing types; and

        WHEREAS, Midvale City recognized these additional fencing types could further provide safety
and security of individual properties and their uses; and

        WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on May 13, 2015 and June 10,
2015, to review proposed amendments regarding fencing types and standards and has forwarded a
recommendation on such to the City Council; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on August 11, 2015,
which meeting was preceded by notice through publication in the Salt Lake Tribune and Deseret News on
July 28, 2015; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah followed the public hearing with another
meeting to obtain additional information with regard to issues raised during the public hearing; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council has taken into consideration testimony citizen testimony, planning
and building analysis, and the Planning Commission's recommendation, and has determined that this text
amendment is appropriate and within the best interests of the City as a whole in protecting and promoting
the health, safety, welfare and aesthetic quality of Midvale City.

           NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah as
follows:

      Section 1. The following chapter and section of the Midvale Municipal Code are hereby
amended as included in the attachment to this document.

         Section 2. If any part of this ordinance or the applications thereof to any person or circumstances
shall, for any reason, be adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or invalid,
such judgement shall not affect, impair or invalidate the remainder of this ordinance or the application
thereof to other persons and circumstances, but shall be confined to its operation to this section,
subdivision, sentence or part of the section and the persons and circumstances directly involved in the
controversy in which such judgment shall have been rendered. It is hereby declared to be the intent of the
City Council that this section would have been adopted if such invalid section, provisions, subdivision,
sentence or part of a section or application had not been included.

        Section 3. This ordinance shall be effective upon publication of a summary thereof.


                                    PASSED AND APPROVED this           0/Y—day of A                   2015.




ATTEST:




   V1.1-1--CK--14d-102C5
Rolri Andreason,
CitV Recorder


Date of first publication:   02eXba42. caS t .No(C-

Voting by City Council            "Nay"           "Aye"

        Quinn Sperry               t,"
        Stephen Brown
        Paul Glover
        Paul Hunt
        Wayne Sharp




                                                                                 Ordinance No. 2015-0-12
                                            ATTACHMENT A
                                       Electrified Security Fencing

                                                                                                  Text Additions
                                                                                                  Text Deletions




17-2-5 "E" definitions.
"Elderly person" means a person who is sixty years old or older, who desires or needs to live with other elderly
persons in a group setting, who may or may not be capable of living independently.

"Electrified security fence" means a fence designed to protect a property or properties from intrusion by means
of conducting an electric current along one or more wires thereof so that a person or animal contacting any
such wire or wires will receive an electric shock.

"Elevation" means the outer surface of a building.


17-2-6 "F" definitions.

 "Fence" means a structure made of various materials that separates, encloses, screens or divides outdoor
areas, including property perimeters. The term "fence" includes, but is not limited to, net screening for
recreational activities, masonry walls, hedges, bollards with chains, posts with rails, and barriers.

"Fence, electrified security. See "Electrified security fence".

"Filtered light fixture" means any outdoor light fixture that has a refractive light source.




Revise Use Table Cl (17-7-13.2)


                                                         Uses


                Type                       Allowed        Administrative          Conditional   Business License

Fences

  6'                                          X

>6'                                                               X

W/barbed or razor wire                                                                  X

Electrified security                                                                    X
Add new section and language as follows: Cl (17-7-13.9 13.1.0

B. Specific Review Criteria for Certain Conditional Uses. In addition to the foregoing, the community and
economic development department and planning commission must review each of the following criteria when
considering approving or denying an application for each of the following conditional uses:

f. Electrified Security Fence. Each application for an electrified security fence must comply with the following:

        i. Evidence must be presented showing that a higher degree of security is required that cannot be
        provided by a standard fence.

         ii. Electric fences shall be constructed and installed in conformance with the specifications set forth in
         International Electro Technical Commission (IEC) Standard No. 60335-2-76.

        iii. The energizer for electric fences must be driven by a commercial storage battery not to exceed 12
        volts DC. The storage battery may be charged by a solar panel, augmented by a commercial trickle
        charger.

        v. No electric fence shall be installed or used unless it is completely surrounded by a non-electrical
        fence or wall that is not less than six feet (6') in height. The electric fence shall be located a
        maximum distance of twelve-inches (12") inside the perimeter fence or wall. It shall be the
        responsibility of the property owner to ensure weeds and debris do not accumulate between the non-
        electrical fence or wall and electrical fence. Where the perimeter fence is constructed of concrete or a
        masonry product, the electric fence may be attached to the top of the fence or wall with brackets,
        provided the overall height of the fence does not exceed ten-feet (10'), the electrical fence does not
        extend beyond the outside perimeter fence or wall, and no portion of the electric fence is greater than
        twelve-inches (12") from the non-electrical fence or wall.

         vi. Electric fences shall have a maximum height of ten-feet (10') and shall not be located within a
         front yard setback. Any fence greater than six-feet (6') in height shall require a building permit for the
         fence structure.

         vii. Electric fences shall be clearly identified with warning signs not to exceed 0.075 sq. ft. (12"x9") in
         size stating: "Warning — Electric Fence". Signs shall be located on each side of the electrical fenced
         area at intervals of sixty-feet (60') on each side. The business name and/or advertising copy shall not
         be allowed on these warning signs.

         viii. If the applicant's proposal has the capability, electric fences shall be governed and regulated under
         burglar alarm regulations and shall receive approval, beforehand, from the applicable regulatory
         agency-(ices); i.e. jurisdictional police and fire.
ot tlectric Guarg °mg                                 The #1 Theft Deterrent Service in the U.S.

                                                      121 Executive Center Drive • Suite 230

                                                      Columbia, SC 29210

                                                      Phone: (803) 404-6189 I Fax: (803) 404-5378




Statement of Need - Text Amendment

  We are requesting a text amendment for the installation 10-foot high electric fence security system
  (Electric Guard Dog aka EGD) approximately 4"-12" inside an existing perimeter fence.

  The EGD Security system is a 10' high, electrically charged fence powered by 12 Volt marine battery which
  is charged by a solar panel. An energizer retains the voltage for 1.3 seconds and thus when released it is
  boosted to 7,000 volts of a totally safe, pulsed electrical charge. Signage posted a minimum of every 60'
  warns of the electric fence. However, the safety of the 'shock' is not advertised and therefore, due to our
  inherent fear of electricity, most criminals will not take a chance in breeching the perimeter. With this,
  the EGD proactively deters crime unlike cameras, beams and alarms that react to a crime in commission.

  The amendment would help provide secure locations for businesses to operate and store equipment and
  merchandise outdoors. Businesses containing highly desirable, easily lenceable' inventory are most
  susceptible to an even higher increase in would-be criminal activity.

  Many businesses in various industries (industrial, commercial, manufacturing, trucking) use 'electric fence'
  security systems to effectively protect their property where other systems have failed. In addition,
  Homeland Security has recommended Electric Guard Dog, LLC to many businesses of this nature to protect
  their business and employees.



  Essential safety facts regarding Electric Guard Dog fence
  • Totally independent of city electrical grid — does not plug in to the county's grid.

  •   Powered by 12v marine battery and solar panel

  •   Totally enclosed inside perimeter solid fence of 6 minimum height

  •   Pulsed current, shock delivered every 1.3 seconds for one-ten thousandth of a second

  •   Shortness of duration makes it very safe.

  •   Fully tested and approved by:

          •   MetLabs, a Nationally Recognized Testing Lab with equal authority as UL

          •   Dr. Webster, University of Wisconsin, the leading expert in pulsed electricity

  •   Adheres to International Standard IEC 60336.2.76 of which the United States is a supporting member.
      , A,Gar
00,1011
      :                  fat                       The #1 Theft Deterrent Service in the U.S.
                kA                                 121 Executive Center Drive • Suite 230
                                                   Columbia, SC 29210
                                                    Phone: (803) 404-61891 Fax: (803) 404-5378



       Summary of Electric Guard Dog Security System

Our Electric Guard Dog security system is a primary low voltage (12V), battery powered (DC),
independent of the electrical grid, self-contained system that has a variety of functions to it which
make for a 100% medically safe and extremely effective crime deterrent. This system is 10' high and
is placed approximately 4 -42'. inside of the existing perimeter fence. It is comprised of 20, 12.5
gauge, galvanized steel wires which are run horizontally to the height of 10'. In our system the first
layer of protection (visual deterrent) is our signage (located every 50') which advertises that it is an
electric fence. This deters most would-be criminals.

The second layer of protection (audible deterrent) of our system is sirens. These sirens sound when an
illegal criminal trespasser cuts the wires or places objects on them to insulate them so as to bypass the
system. The sirens will automatically shut off after a set amount of time. This audible deterrent
usually drives away most of the would-be criminals that are bold enough to proceed in spite of the
aforementioned visual deterrent (signage). Included in this second layer of protection is that we
monitor our systems. In the event of an alarm, a signal will be sent to our monitoring station, who in
turn, contacts our clients to let them know they had an alarm event. Our system does not directly
connect to emergency services.

The final layer of protection is our voltage. We have a burst of voltage (from the 12V battery) that has
a duration of four-ten-thousandths of one second (.00004). If a criminal was bold enough to actually
grab or touch our system, they will receive this temporary pulse of voltage which is akin to a slap on
the hand from a ruler. This final layer of protection stops the remaining number of criminals that are
not deterred by the other layers of protection.

Safety of these devices is unparalleled as no deaths or serious injuries have occurred since the
inception of UL69 in 1939 with installations consistent with the UL69 Standard. This can be
confirmed through Joel Hawk, Principal Engineer of UL69, Underwriters Laboratories. Bill Fulcher of
OSHA, Leader of Enforcement Programs, maintains a data base of accidental death from all causes
and no incidents have occurred directly related to the proper installation and operation of an electric
fence consistent with the UL69 standards. With the inclusion of a perimeter buffer fence, for all
electric security fences as specified in IEC 60335-2-76, the risk of accidental contact is substantially
lowered.

Please also take a moment to look at our website, 1.vww.electricguarddog.com , you will find it helpful
as well.
i;giWZMIM
