                             ORDINANCE NO. 2015-O-03



AN ORDINANCE CREATING AN EXCEPTION TO THE REQUIRED SIDE
YARD SETBACK FOR EXISTING ATTACHED GARAGES AND CLARIFYING
THE     EXISTING       SETBACK        LANGUAGE         IN    THE     SINGLE      FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL (SF-1) ZONE DISTRICT (SECTION 17-7-1.4 A OF THE
MIDVALE MUNICIPAL CODE); ALSO PROVIDING A SAVING CLAUSE AND
AN EFFECTIVE DATE FOR THE ORDINANCE.


        WHEREAS, pursuant to Sections 10-9a-501 through 10-9a-504 Utah State Code,
the City has the authority to make and amend a zoning plan which divides the City into
zoning districts and within those districts to regulate the erection, construction, re
construction, alteration, and uses of buildings and structures and the uses of land to
promote the prosperity, improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, convenience,
and aesthetics of the municipality; and

       WHEREAS, on January 2, 2002, the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance (Title 17 of
the Midvale Municipal Code) became effective and may be subject to amendments from
time to time; and

        WHEREAS, since this effective date, Midvale City has found a number of areas
that require amendments to the text of the ordinance in order to correct errors and
omissions, clarify the intent of the language, and/or include new provisions to further the
purpose and intent; and

       WHEREAS, it has been determined that some of the older, single-family
residential housing stock in Midvale was built with single car garages with no way to
expand the garage area because of the required side yard setback; and

        WHEREAS, it has been determined that the inability to create a more usable and
practical garage space for today's lifestyles is forcing some homeowners to consider
moving from neighborhoods they would otherwise live; and

        WHEREAS, Midvale City desired to provide opportunities for these homeowners
to continue living in these older neighborhoods by providing mechanisms for appropriate
home remodeling to occur to accommodate today's lifestyles and needs; and

        WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on March 11, 2015
to review proposed text amendment language regarding this issue, with such meeting
being preceded by notice through publication in the Salt Lake Tribune and Deseret News
on February 25, 2015, and the Planning Commission forwarded a recommendation on
such to the City Council on March 11, 2015; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on
April 7, 2015, which meeting was preceded by notice through publication in the Salt
Lake Tribune and Deseret News on March 24, 2015; and
        WHEREAS, the City Council has taken into consideration citizen testimony,
planning and building analysis, and the Planning Commission recommendations, and has
determined that this text amendment is appropriate and within the best interests of the
City as a whole in protecting and promoting the health, safety, welfare and aesthetic
quality of Midvale City.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale
City, Utah as follows:

           Section 1. The following chapter and sections of the Midvale Municipal Code are
hereby amended as included in ATTACHMENT A of this document.

        Section 2. If any part of this ordinance or the applications thereof to any person
or circumstances shall, for any reason, be adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction
to be unconstitutional or invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair or invalidate the
remainder of this ordinance or the application thereof to other persons and circumstances,
but shall be confined to its operation to the section, subdivision, sentence or part of the
section and the persons and circumstances directly involved in the controversy in which
such judgment shall have been rendered. It is hereby declared to be the intent of the City
Council that this section would have been adopted if such invalid section, provisions,
subdivision, sentence or part of a section or application had not been included.

           Section 3. This ordinance shall be effective upon publication of a summary
thereof.


           PASSED AND APPROVED this2*_ day of flrQOS L-                      2015.

                                                                  Jo Ann B. Seghini, Mayor


ATTEST:




Rxp Andreason,
                          <JaiM
City Recorder

Date offirst publication^lpfc' Ljj ?£/S
Voting by City Council          "Aye"          "Nay"
       Stephen Brown
           Paul Glover
           Paul Hunt
           Wayne Sharp
           Quinn Sperry             \s*



                                                                 Ordinance No. 2015-O-03
                                               ATTACHMENT A

               SF-1 Zone District- Garage Side Yard Setback Exception

                                                                                               Text Additions
                                                                                               Text Deletions



17-7-1.4 Development standards.

The following development standards apply to all new development in the zone:


A.   Setbacks. The minimum setbacks in the zone are as follows:


               1.   Front. The minimum front yard setback is thirty feet. Iffifty percent or more of the
               lots on the block are developed with a front yard setback of twenty-five feet or less, the
              front yard setback shall be twenty feet.


                     a.   Corner Lot Rule. Corner lots have two front yards.


                     b.   Exceptions. The following exceptions apply to all front yard setbacks in the

                     zone:




                             i.     Front Porch. An open, front entry porch may encroach eight feet into the

                             front yard setback.


                             ii.     Projections. Skylights, sillsSills, cornices, chimneys, flues, eaves and

                             ornamental features may project into the front yard up to two and one-half

                             feet.



                             iii.    Impervious Surfaces. A driveway with a width of twenty feet or forty

                             percent of the lot frontage, whichever is greater, and a sidewalk of up to five

                             feet in width from the driveway or street to the front door. The driveway may

                             extend an additional ten feet in width behind the sidewalk.



              2.    Side. The minimum side yard setback is eight feet, subject to the following

              exceptions:


                     a.   Projection. Skylights, sillsSills, cornices, chimneys, flues, eaves and

                     ornamental features may project into the side yard up to two and one-half feet.




                                                         3                       Ordinance No. 2015-O-03
      b.     Stairs and Balconies Landings. Outside stairways and balconies landings
      required by Building code for exterior doorways may project into the side yard up

      to three feet.



      c.     Single Family Attached Structure. In the case of a pre-existing single family
      attached structure, the structure shall be exempt from the interior side yard
      setback.


      —
      i.     Attached Single Car Garages and Carports. In the case where an existing
      single family residence has an attached garage or carport that accommodates

      less than two cars because of its width, the garage or carport may be extended to

      four feet from the side property line provided the following items are satisfied:


            i. The extended structure area is for a garage use only; the encroachment into
               the side yard setback cannot be used as habitable space,

           ii. The extended structure shall not exceed one story, and shall not extend

                above the roofline of the existing residential structure,

           iii. The width of the garage shall not exceed twenty-four feet; the depth of the

                garage shall not exceed twenty-four feet,

           iv. Eaves may extend an additional one foot beyond the outside wall of the

                garage or carport; no other projections, including stairs and landings shall

                be allowed within the four foot setback,

           v. All Building codes shall be addressed,

           vi. This exception is intended to provide a property owner of an older

               with an attached single car garage or carport the ability to have a standard

                attached two car garage or carport where it otherwise would not be

                allowed because of the eight foot side yard setback,

           vii. All new home construction shall comply with the eight foot side yard

               setback.



3.   Rear. The minimum rear yard setback is twenty-five feet, subject to the following

exceptions:


      a.     Corner Lot Rule. On corner lots, there is no rear yard.




                                                                Ordinance No. 2015-O-03
b.   Projection. Skylights, sillsSills, cornices, chimneys, flues, eaves and

ornamental features may project into the rear yard up to two and one-half feet.


c.   Stairs and Balconies Landings. Outside stairways and baloonios landings

required by Building code for exterior doorways may project into the rear yard up

to three feet.




                                                       Ordinance No. 2015-O-03
