                             ORDINANCE NO. 2015-O-05



AN     ORDINANCE           MODIFYING          THE       REVIEW         PROCESS        AND
REQUIREMENTS IN THE CLEAN INDUSTRIAL (CI), STATE STREET
COMMERCIAL (SSC) AND REGIONAL COMMERCIAL (RC) ZONE
DISTRICTS BY ADDING A MINOR VEHICLE SALES CATEGORY TO
VEHICLE RELATED USES AS AN ADMINISTRATIVE CONDITIONAL USE
WITH SPECIFIC STANDARDS; ALSO PROVIDING A SAVING CLAUSE AND
AN EFFECTIVE DATE FOR THE ORDINANCE.


        WHEREAS, pursuant to Sections 10-9a-501 through 10-9a-503 Utah State Code,
the City has the authority to make and amend a zoning plan which divides the City into
zoning districts and within those districts to regulate the erection, construction, re
construction, alteration, and uses of buildings and structures and the uses of land to
promote the prosperity, improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, convenience,
and aesthetics of the municipality; and

       WHEREAS, on January 2, 2002, the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance (Title 17 of
the Midvale Municipal Code) became effective and may be subject to amendments from
time to time; and

       WHEREAS, since this effective date, Midvale City has found a number of areas
that require amendments to the text of the ordinance in order to correct errors and
omissions, clarify the intent of the language, and/or include new provisions to further the
purpose and intent; and

       WHEREAS, it has been determined that the current review process and
requirements for minor vehicle sales uses with minimal inventory and outside display is
burdensome for the Planning Commission, Staff and the applicant; and

       WHEREAS, it has been determined that Minor Vehicle Sales uses would be better
reviewed as an Administrative Conditional Use; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on March 25, 2015
to review proposed text amendment language regarding this issue, with such meeting
beingpreceded by notice through publication in the Salt Lake Tribune and Deseret
News on March 11, 2015, and the Planning Commission forwarded a recommendation
on such to the City Council on March 25, 2015; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on
May 5, 2015, which meeting was preceded by notice through publication in the Salt
Lake Tribune and Deseret News on April 21, 2015; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council has taken into consideration citizen testimony,
planning and building analysis, and the Planning Commission recommendations, and has
determined that this text amendment is appropriate and within the best interests of the
City as a whole in protecting and promoting the health, safety, welfare and aesthetic
quality of Midvale City.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale
City, Utah as follows:

      Section 1. The following chapters and sections of the Midvale Municipal
Code are hereby amended as included in the attachment to this document.

        Section 2. If any part of this ordinance or the applications thereof to any person
or circumstances shall, for any reason, be adjudged by a court of competentjurisdiction
to be unconstitutional or invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair or invalidate
the remainder of this ordinance or the application thereof to other persons and
circumstances, but shall be confined to its operation to the section, subdivision,
sentence or part of the section andthe persons and circumstances directly involved in
the controversy in which such judgment shall have been rendered. It is hereby declared
to be the intent of the City Councilthat this sectionwould have been adopted if such
invalid section, provisions, subdivision, sentence or part of a section or application
had not been included.

           Section 3. This ordinance shall be effective upon publication of a summary
thereof.

           PASSED AND APPROVED thisffi day of jllffl,!                       2015

                                                                JoAhri B. Seghini, Mayor


ATTEST




                iftjkm±==i
 Rori Andreason, MMC
 City Recorder

 Date of first publication:

Voting by City Council        "XT«.r"
                                             "Aye"
           Stephen Brown
           Paul Glover
           Paul Hunt
           Wayne Sharp
           Quinn Sperry

                                                                 Ordinance No. 2015-O-05
                                             ATTACHMENT A
                         CI, SSC, RC Zone Districts - Minor Vehicle Sales
                                                                                                  Text Additions
                                                                                                  Toxt Dolotions

17-2-22 "V" definitions.

"Vehicle repair" means a business engaged in the servicing of passenger vehicles, lightand medium trucks
and other consumer motor vehicles such as motorcycles, boats and recreational vehicles. "Vehicle repair"
includes businesses where minor auto repair services performed may include lubrication and service of
vehicles, tune ups, transmission or muffler repair, alignment services, auto upholstery shops, auto detailing,
tire sales, repair and/or mounting, and other similar repairs. "Vehicle repair" also includes major auto repair
such as the removal of engines, rebuilding of engines, repair of the internal components, repair or removal
of differentials or axles, and body work. "Vehicle repair" may also include uses that are often accessory to
businesses engaged in the repair of vehicles such as offices, part sales, storage of merchandise, and
vehicle storage when such vehicle storage is fully and adequately screened. "Vehicle repair" does not
include repair and service of industrial vehicles and equipment or other heavy vehicles in excess of 12,000
GVW, "vehicleassembly," "manufacturing use," auto dismantling or wrecking, salvage, "junkyards," or
similar uses. For the purposes of each zoning district, any other uses specifically listed within the particular
zoning district shall not be construed as falling within this generic definition.

"Vehicle Sales (minor)" means a business engaged in onlythe sale of operable vehicles and that display no
more than three vehicles outside and ten vehicles inside.


"Vehicle Sales and Service (major)" means a business primarily engaged in the sale of operable vehicles
and vohicio parts and aooossorios with minor ropair and installation of parts and aooossories. with more than
three vehicles displayed outside and more than ten vehicles inside. Vehicle parts and accessories may be
sold, and minor repairand installation of parts and accessories may be performed onsite as part of this use.

"Vehicle sign" means a sign or advertising device attached to or located on a vehicle or trailer parked on a
public right-of-way, public property or parking area with access by the general public so as to be visible from
a public right-of-way for the basic purpose of directing people to a business or activity.


Revise Use Tables CI (17-7-13.2), SSC (17-7-7.2), RC (17-7-12.2)
                                                            Uses

                  Type                  Allowed          Administrative             Conditional      Business License

Vehicle-Related Use

Rental                                                                                   X                  X

Sales (Minor)                                                    X                                          X

Sales and Service (Major)                                                                X                  X

Filling Station                                                                          X                  X

 Repair                                                                                  X                  X
Revise Parking Requirements Tables CI (17-7-13.7C), SSC (17-7-7.8), RC (17-7-12.7C)
C. Parking Ratio Requirements for Specific Land Use Categories. All new development shall provide
parking according to the following standards. If a project incorporates two uses, the use requiring higher
number ofparking spaces shall govern. Whenever thecalculation results in a fractional number, the number
of spaces required must be rounded up to the next whole number.

Revise Table 17-7- [13.7C and 7.8 and 12.7C]

                                   Nonresidential Parking Ratio Requirements

Uses                                   Parking Ratio Requirement (Number of Spaces)

Auto Repair                            1 per employee per shift plus 4 per service bay

Vehicle Sales (Minor)                  3 spaces, plus 1 per employee per shift and a minimum of 2 for
                                       customers.


Automobile Vehicle Sales/Rental        1 per vehicle for sale or rentplus one space per 400 square feet of net
(Major)                                leasable floor area

Child Care Facility/ Center            1 per on-duty staff per shift and 1 per 6 children




Add new sections and language as follows: CI (17-7-13.9.B.2.f), SSC (17-7-7.13.B.2.d), RC
(17-7-12.9.B.2.e)
B. Specific Review Criteria for Certain Conditional Uses. In addition to the foregoing, the community
and economic development department and planning commission must review each ofthefollowing
criteria when considering approving ordenying an application for each ofthefollowing conditional
 uses:



          2.   Administrative Conditional Use.


                        Vehicle Sales (Minor). Each application considered as a minor vehicle sales shall
                        comply with the following:

                              i.    A maximum of three vehicles may be displayed outside. All vehicles must be
                                    parked within an improved parking area in designated parking stalls. Up to
                                    ten additional for sale vehicles may be stored indoors,
                           ii.      Vehicles displayed outside shall be located in a manner as to notobstruct
                                    drive aisles, doors or pedestrian pathways.
                           iii.     The business shall provide three spaces for displayed vehicles, plus a
                                    minimum ofone parking space per employee pershift and a minimum of2
                                    for customers. Depending on the business operation plan, additional spaces
                                    may be required for customers.
                           iv.      With the exception of three displayed vehicles, no other outdoorstorage
                                    shall be permitted on site.
                           v.       Any vehicle repair is prohibited onsite.
