                             ORDINANCE NO. 2015-0-13

AN ORDINANCE MODIFYING THE REQUIREMENTS IN THE CLEAN
INDUSTRIAL (CI), STATE STREET COMMERCIAL (SSC), REGIONAL
COMMERCIAL (RC), MULTIFAMILY (RM-12, RM-25), 7200 S OVERLAY,
TRANSIT ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT (TOD), BINGHAM JUNCTION (BJ),
AND HISTORIC COMMERCIAL (HC) ZONE DISTRICTS BY ADDING A
CATEGORY TO SIGN REGULATIONS THAT WOULD ALLOW FEATHER
FLAGS AS AN ALLOWED TYPE OF TEMPORARY SIGNAGE; ALSO
PROVIDING A SAVING CLAUSE AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE FOR THE
ORDINANCE.

        WHEREAS, pursuant to Sections 10-9a-501 through 10-9a-503 Utah State Code,
the City has the authority to make and amend a zoning plan which divides the City into
zoning districts and within those districts to regulate the erection, construction, re-
construction, alteration, and uses of buildings and structures and the uses of land to
promote the prosperity, improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, convenience,
and aesthetics of the municipality; and

        WHEREAS, on January 2, 2002, the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance (Title 17 of
the Midvale Municipal Code) became effective and may be subject to amendments from
time to time; and

        WHEREAS, since this effective date, Midvale City has found a number of areas
that require amendments to the text of the ordinance in order to correct errors and
omissions, clarify the intent of the language, and/or include new provisions to further the
purpose and intent; and

       WHEREAS, it has been determined that the current temporary sign regulations
and requirements need to be updated to include recently invented sign types; and

        WHEREAS, it has been determined that Feather Flags would be a useful addition
as an allowed type of temporary signage; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on October 14,
2015 to review proposed text amendment language regarding this issue, with such
meeting being preceded by notice through publication in the Salt Lake Tribune and
Deseret News on September 30, 2015, and the Planning Commission forwarded a
recommendation on such to the City Council on October 14, 2015; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on
November 10, 2015 which meeting was preceded by notice through publication in the
Salt Lake Tribune and Deseret News on November 3, 2015; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council has taken into consideration citizen testimony,
planning and building analysis, and the Planning Commission recommendations, and has
determined that this text amendment is appropriate and within the best interests of the
City as a whole in protecting and promoting the health, safety, welfare and aesthetic
quality of Midvale City.

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale
 City, Utah as follows:

        Section 1. The following chapters and sections of the Midvale Municipal
 Code are hereby amended as included in Attachment A of this document.

         Section 2. If any part of this ordinance or the applications thereof to any person
 or circumstances shall, for any reason, be adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction
 to be unconstitutional or invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair or invalidate
 the remainder of this ordinance or the application thereof to other persons and
 circumstances, but shall be confined to its operation to the section, subdivision,
 sentence or part of the section and the persons and circumstances directly involved in
 the controversy in which such judgment shall have been rendered. It is hereby declared
 to be the intent of the City Council that this section would have been adopted if such
 invalid section, provisions, subdivision, sentence or part of a section or application
 had not been included.

            Section 3. This ordinance shall be effective upon publication of a summary
 thereof.

            PASSED AND APPROVED this rilkday of kiNtAki?-jA2- ,2015.




 ATTEST:




 Date of first publication:N QV cI.). ,DDIC--

 Voting by City Council        "Nay"          "Aye"
 Stephen Brown                      tr-
 Paul Glover                        I/
 Paul Hunt                          t.../
 Wayne Sharp                        t...-
 Quinn Sperry                       1/-

                                                                  Ordinance No. 2015-0-13


                                               4
                                          ATTACHMENT A
   RM-12, RM-25, 7200 S Overlay, SSC, RC, TOD, BJ, HC, CI, SSOZ Zone Districts — Feather Flags

                                                                                         Text Additions
                                                                                         Text Delctiono
17-2 definitions.
"Fence" means a structure made of various materials that separates, encloses, screens or divides
outdoor areas, including property perimeters. The term "fence" includes, but is not limited to, net
screening for recreational activities, masonry walls, hedges, bollards with chains, posts with rails,
and barriers.


"Feather Flag" means a vertical portable temporary sign that contains a harpoon-style pole or
staff driven into the ground for support or supported by means of an individual stand and has a
  aximum height of 12 feet. (See Figure 2.)




                                                Figure 2



"Filtered light fixture" means any outdoor light fixture that has a refractive light source.

********


"Temporary retail sales" is defined as the sale of new merchandise and/or services from a
temporary location.

"Temporary sign" means any sign, banner, feather flag, pennant, valance or advertising display
constructed of paper, cloth, canvas, light fabric, cardboard, wallboard or other light materials, with
or without frames, intended to be displayed out-of-doors for a short period of time.

"Territorial enforcement" means physical design which allows users of property to develop a
sense of ownership over it, developing space with an easily discernible purpose, using symbolic
barriers such as low lying fences/walls, landscaping and signage, eliminating ambiguous spaces,
encouraging easy maintenance, and discouraging crime.




                                                    5
Revise Sign Tables RM-12 (17-7-3.12), RM-25 (17-7-4.12)

                                                         Signs
                                                                      Max.
         Sign Type           Allowed Conditional         Max. Area   Height           General Restrictions
Construction                 X                        32 s.f.        12'      Removed after the first of 3 months
                                                                              from completion or upon C.O.
Feather Flags (Temporary) X                                                   See text.
Flat or Wall                           X              10% of        n/a       Internally illuminated signs are
(Neighborhood                                         facade                  prohibited. Signs are allowed on
Commercial only)                                      facing street           facades with street frontage.




Add new sections and language as follows: RM-12 (17-7-3.12.G), RM-25 (17-7-4.12.G)
F. Flag Banners. Apartment or condominium complexes may utilize flag banners as follows:
    1. Flag banner poles shall not exceed twelve feet in height;
    2. Flag banners shall only be permitted as part of an organized front entry feature that includes a
        project identification sign and landscaping;
    3. Flag banners must be located a minimum of three feet from a public sidewalk or a property
         line and must be located outside of the clear view triangle; and
    4. Flag banners shall contain no advertising copy. For the purposes of this subsection the project
         name is not considered to be advertising copy.

G. Feather Flags. One (1) feather flag per 50 feet of frontage or a maximum of five (5) are allowed for
multifamily projects over thirty five (35) units. Feather flags may be displayed on private property for a
period of fourteen consecutive days per calendar quarter up to four times per calendar year. A
temporary sign permit shall be required for each display period.

Add new sections and language as follows: 7200 S Overlay (17-7-6.8.1.4), SSC (17-7-
7.10.K.7), TOD (17-7-8.10.J.3), BJ (17-7-9.4.D.11.0, HC (17-7-11.9.1.4), RC (17-7-12.10.K.7),
CI (17-7-13.10.1.7), SSOZ (17-7-15.15.1.4)
Signs.
Only two sign types are permitted per building unless specifically approved by the planning
commission through the conditional use review process. In mixed-use developments, signage for each
application must comply with an approved theme, which is uniform throughout the proposed
development, and which complements the approved signage of near or adjacent pedestrian-oriented
development. If a regulated sign type is not specifically designated, it is prohibited.

K. Temporary Signs. The following provisions regulate the use of temporary signs. If a temporary
sign type is not specifically designated, it is prohibited.

    5. Grand Opening Events Signs. Promotional signage, such as pennants, streamers, banners,
        balloon signs, and inflated sign displays, may be used for grand opening events for new
        businesses. Such promotional signage must be initiated within the first three months of a new
        business receiving a certificate of occupancy, and may be used for a maximum of thirty
        consecutive days. Said signs shall be used in such a manner so as not to constitute a safety
        hazard. A temporary sign permit shall be required. Promotional signage shall not include
        illuminated signs or devices.




                                                     6
6. Feather Flags. A maximum of one (1) feather flag is allowed per business in a multi-tenant
    building. One (1) feather flag per 50 feet of frontage or a maximum of five (5) are allowed for
    stand-alone businesses. Feather flags may be displayed on private property for a period of
    fourteen consecutive days per calendar quarter up to four times per calendar year, with a
    maximum height of twelve (12) feet. A temporary sign permit shall be required for each
    display period.




                                                7
