                             ORDINANCE NO. 2015-O-06


AN ORDINANCE INCREASING THE OVERALL RESIDENTIAL DENSITY TO
19.3 UNITS PER ACRE IN THE SILVER REFINERY OVERLAY (SECTION 17-
7-9.12.3.3 C OF THE MIDVALE MUNICIPAL CODE) AND CREATING A
DEFINITION       AND     PARKING      STANDARD        FOR "SENIOR AFFORDABLE
HOUSING" IN ALL ZONES THAT ALLOW MULTI-FAMILY USES (SECTION
17-2-19 "S" AND CHAPTERS 17-7-3, 17-7-4, 17-7-5, 17-7-7, 17-7-8, 17-7-9, 17-7-
9.12.3, 17-7-15 OF THE MIDVALE MUNICIPAL CODE); ALSO PROVIDING A
SAVING CLAUSE AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE FOR THE ORDINANCE.


        WHEREAS, pursuant to Sections 10-9a-501 through 10-9a-504 Utah State Code,
the City has the authority to make and amend a zoning plan which divides the City into
zoning districts and within those districts to regulate the erection, construction, re
construction, alteration, and uses of buildings and structures and the uses of land to
promote the prosperity, improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, convenience,
and aesthetics of the municipality; and

       WHEREAS, on January 2, 2002, the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance (Title 17 of
the Midvale Municipal Code) became effective and may be subject to amendments from
time to time; and

        WHEREAS, since this effective date, Midvale City has found a number of areas
that require amendments to the text of the ordinance in order to correct errors and
omissions, clarify the intent of the language, and/or include new provisions to further the
purpose and intent; and

       WHEREAS, it has been determined that it is important to provide senior
affordable housing in Midvale; and

        WHEREAS, it has been determined that by increasing the density from 16 u/a to
19.3 u/a in the Silver Refinery Overlay, it will allow for the development of a much
needed affordable senior housing project; and

       WHEREAS, it has been determined that a senior affordable housing use does not
require the same amount of parking as a typical multi-family residential development,
and a parking standard requiring less parking is appropriate for the development and the
overall community; and

        WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on April 22, 2015 to
review proposed text amendment language regarding these issues, with such meeting
being preceded by notice through publication in the Salt Lake Tribune and Deseret News
on April 8, 2015, and the Planning Commission forwarded a recommendation on such to
the City Council on April 22, 2015; and

      WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on
May 19, 2015, which meeting was preceded by notice through publication in the Salt
Lake Tribune and Deseret News on May 5, 2015; and
        WHEREAS, the City Council has taken into consideration citizen testimony,
planning and building analysis, and the Planning Commission recommendations, and has
determined that this text amendment is appropriate and within the best interests of the
City as a whole in protecting and promoting the health, safety, welfare and aesthetic
quality of Midvale City.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale
City, Utah as follows:

        Section 1. The following chapters and sections of the Midvale Municipal Code
are hereby amended as included in ATTACHMENT A and ATTACHMENT B of this
document.


        Section 2. If any part of this ordinance or the applications thereof to any person
or circumstances shall, for any reason, be adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction
to be unconstitutional or invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair or invalidate the
remainder of this ordinance or the application thereof to other persons and circumstances,
but shall be confined to its operation to the section, subdivision, sentence or part of the
section and the persons and circumstances directly involved in the controversy in which
such judgment shall have been rendered. It is hereby declared to be the intent of the City
Council that this section would have been adopted if such invalid section, provisions,
subdivision, sentence or part of a section or application had not been included.

           Section 3. This ordinance shall be effective upon publication of a summary
thereof.


           PASSED AND APPROVED this         /i^day of Q/hjJ                  2015.




                         4it.aj&(\
Rdri Andreason, MMC
City Recorder

Date of first publication: fl \(]M Ql Qp
Voting by City Council           "Aye"          'Nay"
       Stephen Brown
           Paul Glover
           Paul Hunt
           Wayne Sharp             t/

           Quinn Sperry            \/_


                                                                  Ordinance No. 2015-O-06
                                          ATTACHMENT A
                         SILVER REFINERY OVERLAY DENSITY


                                                                                         Text Additions
                                                                                         Text Deletions


17-7-9.12.3.3 Large scale master plan requirement
The property is required to be master planned as a whole under the large scale master plan provision

prior to any specific development applications, i.e., small scale master plans, subdivision plats,

conditional use permits, site plans, being accepted by the city for review and approval. Each

development application must be consistent with the large scale master plan. The large scale master

plan must include the following elements:

A.   At a minimum, the plan shall show the general layout of future development including general

uses, public open space, roads, circulation, and main vehicular and pedestrian accesses.

B.   A dedication of at least nine percent of the real property to be improved, at no cost to the city, as

accessible and useable public open space. It is expected that the historical cemetery be made a part

of this public open space area. The dedication is based on the clustering and increased densities

allowed within the overlay.

C.   The maximum residential density within a designated residential use parcel shall be sixteen 19.3

units per acre for all residential areas combined.

D.   Vehicular accesses shall comply with the city's typical access management standards.

E.   For vertical mixed-use development, the maximum FAR is 3.0.

F.   In conjunction with the large scale master plan, a development agreement, in a form satisfactory

to the city attorney and city council, shall be recorded with the property wherein the property owner,

and its successors and assigns, agree to comply with the provisions of the conditional use permit for

the master planned development. This agreement shall also provide security, to the satisfaction of the

city attorney and city council, for all on- and off-site public improvements associated with the

development.

G.   The large scale master plan, and all subsequent development applications, will demonstrate that

it is in conformance with applicable institutional controls.

H.   Subdivisions, small scale master plans, site and project plans, conditional use permits and

building permits within the silver refinery overlay shall be in accordance with the current building code,

this chapter, and Section 17-7-3 and Title 16 of the Midvale City Code.
                                                      3                     Ordinance No. 2015-O-06
                                  ATTACHMENT B
                           SENIOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING


                                                                         Text Additions
                                                                         Text Deletions

17-2-19 "S" definitions.

"Senior Affordable Housing" means a residential development/use restricted to
persons 55 and older, where a minimum of 80% of the units are affordable to a
household making 50% of the area median income (AMI) or less. Project must be
guaranteed to remain affordable, as defined above, for a minimum of 50 years.
With the exception of the parking space requirement that is called out separately,
all senior affordable housing developments shall be considered under the
applicable multi-family residential or medium and high density residential
development standards.




Create a parking requirement for "senior affordable housing" in the RM-12, RM-25,
Mixed Use, State Street Commercial, Transit Oriented Development, Bingham Junction,
Silver Refinery Overlay, and State Street Overlay zone districts by adding the language
below to the following tables and sections:

*Tables 17-7-3.7,17-7-4.7,17-7-5.7,17-7-7.8,17-7-8.8,17-7-15.8

*Sections 17-7-9.6 (A)(2), 17-7-9.12.3.13 (D)(3)

                                     Table/Section *
                                         Par king



                   Uses                                 Parking Requirement




Senior Affordable Housing                     Not less than 1 space per dwelling unit;
                                              plus not less than 0.3 spaces per dwelling
                                              unit for guest parking




                                                                Ordinance No. 2015-O-06
