ORDINANCE NO. 2016-0-08

AN ORDINANCE CREATING STANDARDS FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS
FACILITIES IN THE PUBLIC FACILITIES OVERLAY; ALSO PROVIDING A
SAVING CLAUSE AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE FOR THE ORDINANCE.

WHEREAS, pursuant to Sections 10-9a-501 through 10-9a-504 Utah State Code,
the City has the authority to make and amend a zoning plan which divides the City into
zoning districts and within those districts to regulate the erection, construction, re-
construction, alteration, and uses of buildings and structures and the uses of land to
promote the prosperity, improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, convenience,
and aesthetics of the municipality; and

WHEREAS, on January 2, 2002, the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance (Title 17 of
the Midvale Municipal Code) became effective and may be subject to amendments from
time to time; and

WHEREAS, since this effective date, Midvale City has found a number of areas
that require amendments to the text of the ordinance in order to correct errors and
omissions, clarify the intent of the language, and/or include new provisions to further the
vision of the City; and

WHEREAS, the City determined a need to provide telecommunications facilities
within the Public Facilities Overlay and prepared review criteria for this use within this
Overlay; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission discussed this need and review criteria on
May 25, 2016 as part of its regular meeting; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on June 8, 2016 to
review proposed text amendment language regarding this issue, with such meeting being
preceded by notice through publication in the Salt Lake Tribune and Deseret News on
May 25, and the Planning Commission forwarded a recommendation with specific
language to create a telecommunications facilities provision in the Public Facilities
Overlay to the City Council on June 8, 2016; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on
July 12, 2016, which meeting was preceded by notice through publication in the Salt
Lake Tribune and Deseret News on June 28, 2016; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah, after taking into
consideration citizen testimony, planning analysis, and the Planning Commission
recommendation, finds it is appropriate and within the best interests of the City to include
such a provision in the Midvale Municipal Code.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale
City, Utah as follows:

Section 1. The following chapter and sections of the Midvale Municipal Code are
hereby amended as included in ATTACHMENT A of this document.

Section 2. If any part of this ordinance or the applications thereof to any person
or circumstances shall, for any reason, be adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction
to be unconstitutional or invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair or invalidate the
remainder of this ordinance or the application thereof to other persons and circumstances,
but shall be confined to its operation to the section, subdivision, sentence or part of the
section and the persons and circumstances directly involved in the controversy in which
such judgment shall have been rendered. It is hereby declared to be the intent of the City
Council that this section would have been adopted if such invalid section, provisions,
subdivision, sentence or part of a section or application had not been included.

Section 3. This ordinance shall be effective upon publication of a summary
thereof.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 2 “day of , 2016.

JoAnn B. Seghini, Mayor
ATTEST:
TY S7,
: ¢ Ve
~ a °
byr— ei WNCORPORAD, | ae
Roti Andreason, MMC = § ~~.
City Recorder * A Ar. 1909 z
O° _
Date of first publicationg>, 1 Ly | | 20! (@ SP oene ot,
Voting by City Council “Aye” “Nay”

Stephen Brown a

Paul Glover x

Paul Hunt i

Wayne Sharp va

Quinn Sperry x a

2 Ordinance No. 2016-O-08

ATTACHMENT A
Text Additions
Text Delehors
Chapter 17-7-16
PUBLIC FACILITIES OVERLAY ZONE
Sections:
17-7-16.1 Purpose.
17-7-16.2 Uses.
17-7-16.3 Review process.
17-7-16.4 Criteria—Required findings.
17-7-16.5 Development agreement.
17-7-16.6 Specific review criteria for certain public facility uses.
17-7-16.7 Modification to use or plan.
17-7-16.8 Related provisions.
F727 A16.1 PUP POS Oe smu
The purpose of the public facilities overlay zone is to provide for locations and appropriate standards
for a range of public uses conducted by governmental and specified agencies. These uses are
operated for the benefit of the community, and provide basic services and essential support services
for the community. Because of the nature of these uses, they are generally not identified with any
specific zone district, having the need to locate in areas that best serve the community. The overlay
zone allows the city council, through its legislative discretion, to provide for areas in which to locate
public facilities to best support the community in a cost effective and efficient manner. It is the intent of
this overlay to protect neighboring private uses from incompatible public uses and ensure the impacts
associated with the public uses are appropriately mitigated.
The following uses are defined as public facilities, and may be allowed in a public facilities overlay
zone. These uses public facilities must be cerducted operated bya ea Md or specified agency.
If a use facility is not specifically designated, it is-prohibited cannot be considered under th is overlay.
A. Government buildings.
B. Fire station.
3 Ordinance No. 2016-O-08

C. Police station.
D. Park/playground.
E. Recreation and community center.
F. Library.
G. Educational institution.
H. Cemetery.
17-7-16.3 REVIEW PFOCESS. omni
The review process for all applications intended to utilize the public facilities overlay zone shall follow
the process outlined in Section 17-3-1, Amendments to the zoning code or map. The application shall
include a binding site plan, which shall be reviewed in conjunction with the proposed use. The public
facilities overlay rezone is contingent upon approval of the site plan. The site plan shall include the
information required in Section 17-3-3(E), Site Plan Review.
17-7-16.4 Criteria—Required FIMGINQS. css
The planning commission may recommend and the city council may grant approval of a public facilities
overlay zoning designation only if it determines, in written findings, the application has demonstrated
the following:
A. There is a demonstrated need for the public facility within the community at large and it is not
contrary to the public interest.
B. The public facility is consistent with the goals and policies of the general plan, and applicable
ordinances of the city where feasible.
C. The public facility is located, planned and developed in such a manner that it is not inconsistent
with the health, safety or general welfare of persons residing or working in the city. This includes, but is
not limited to, the following:
1. The generation of noise, noxious or offensive emissions, or other nuisances which
may be injurious or detrimental to the surrounding area.
+ Ordinance No. 2016-O-08

2. The availability of public services to support the public facility, including utilities;
vehicular, pedestrian and public transit systems; police; fire; education; and social and
health services.
3. The adequacy of landscaping, screening and buffering, building setbacks, parking,
open space, or other development characteristics necessary to mitigate the impact of
the public facility on neighboring properties. ;
4. Proposed public facilities which exceed the bulk, height, density, or other use
standards in the underlying zone must demonstrate such variances are essential to the
function or operation of such facility. The development standards of the underlying zone
and adjacent development shall be utilized where feasible.
D. The public facility complies with the specific review criteria for the use contained herein.
17-7-16.5 Development agreement. me
The city council may find that a proposed public facility requires a development agreement to ensure
the use and facility continue to operate in the manner consistent with the development approval. In this
instance, a development agreement, in a form satisfactory to the city attorney and city council, wherein
the property owner and service provider agree to comply with the provisions of the development
approval, including any required on-site and off-site public improvements associated with the |
development, shall be made part of the development approval process.
17-7-16.6 Specific review criteria for certain public facility uses...
In addition to the foregoing, the following criteria must be satisfied in order to approve an application
for each of the following uses: .
3 Ordinance No. 2016-O-08

17-7-16.7 Modification to Use OF Pla. ccm
Modifications to a public facility shall be reviewed by the community and economic development
department. If the community and economic development department determines the proposed
modification is major, the major modification will require reapplication and reconsideration consistent
with the process and requirements of this chapter.

6 Ordinance No. 2016-O-08
