                             ORDINANCE NO. 2016-0-04


AN ORDINANCE ELIMINATING THE MIXED-USE REQUIREMENT FOR
BUILDINGS OVER FIVE STORIES IN THE STATE STREET COMMERCIAL
AND TRANSIT ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT ZONES (SECTIONS 17-7-7, 17-7-8
OF THE MIDVALE MUNICIPAL CODE); ALSO PROVIDING A SAVING
CLAUSE AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE FOR THE ORDINANCE.

        WHEREAS, pursuant to Sections 10-9a-501 through 10-9a-504 Utah State Code,
the City has the authority to make and amend a zoning plan which divides the City into
zoning districts and within those districts to regulate the erection, construction, re-
construction, alteration, and uses of buildings and structures and the uses of land to
promote the prosperity, improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, convenience,
and aesthetics of the municipality; and

        WHEREAS, on January 2, 2002, the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance (Title 17 of
the Midvale Municipal Code) became effective and may be subject to amendments from
time to time; and

        WHEREAS, since this effective date, Midvale City has found a number of areas
that require amendments to the text of the ordinance in order to correct errors and
omissions, clarify the intent of the language, and/or include new provisions to further the
purpose and intent; and

        WHEREAS, on September 15, 2015, the Midvale City Council adopted a
temporary land use regulation, Ordinance No. 2015-0-09, creating an opportunity to
address the challenges associated with implementing the existing zoning ordinances with
respect to building height, setbacks and landscape buffers for higher density/intensity
projects adjacent to single family residential neighborhoods; and

        WHEREAS, during the six-month period of this temporary land use regulation,
the City, through workshop meetings with the City Council and Planning Commission,
discussed ways to amend the development standards in the RM-12, RM-25, SSC and
TOD zones to address these transition areas; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on March 9, 2016 to
formally consider proposed text amendment language regarding this issue, with such
meeting being preceded by notice through publication in the Salt Lake Tribune and
Deseret News on February 24, 2016, and the Planning Commission forwarded a
recommendation on such to the City Council on March 23, 2016; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on
April 19, 2016, which meeting was preceded by notice through publication in the Salt
Lake Tribune and Deseret News on April 5, 2016; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council took into consideration citizen testimony, planning
analysis, and the Planning Commission's recommendation, and determined that no
changes be made to the ordinance, with the exception of removing the mixed use
requirement for buildings over five stories, until a more comprehensive review of all of
the issues can be done that is based on the considerations and goals of the General Plan
Update.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale
City, Utah as follows:

        Section 1. The following chapters and sections of the Midvale Municipal Code
are hereby amended as included in the ATTACHMENT A to this document.

        Section 2. If any part of this ordinance or the applications thereof to any person
or circumstances shall, for any reason, be adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction
to be unconstitutional or invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair or invalidate the
remainder of this ordinance or the application thereof to other persons and circumstances,
but shall be confined to its operation to the section, subdivision, sentence or part of the
section and the persons and circumstances directly involved in the controversy in which
such judgment shall have been rendered. It is hereby declared to be the intent of the City
Council that this section would have been adopted if such invalid section, provisions,
subdivision, sentence or part of a section or application had not been included.

           Section 3. This ordinance shall be effective upon publication of a summary
thereof.

           PASSED AND APPROVED this ,3S day of            )14 C/A/          , 2016.



                                                                      nn B. Seghini, Mayor




Date of first publication:                    62_
Voting by City Council           "Aye"         "Nay"
       Stephen Brown
       Paul Glover                 Lr-
       Paul Hunt                   tr"
       Wayne Sharp
       Quinn Sperry




                                                                  Ordinance No. 2016-0-04
                                        ATTACHMENT A

                                                                                          Text Additions
                                                                                          Text Deletions

TOO Zone — Chapter 17-7-8

1. Amend Section 17-7-8.4, medium and high density residential development
    standards, as follows:

      A. Setbacks. New development shall comply with the following setbacks:

               4. Single Family Setback. The minimum setback from the property line, when
               adjacent to a single family residential zone, is fifteen feet, subject to the following
               exceptions:

                   a.   Three-story structures must be set back thirty-seven feet; four-story
                   structures must be set back sixty-six feet; and five-story structures must be set
                   back eighty-three feet; six-story structures must be setback one hundred feet; and
                   seven-story structures must be setback one hundred sixteen feet.

                   b.   Projections. Sills, cornices, chimneys, flues, eaves, and ornamental features
                   may project into the rear yard up to two and one-half feet.

                   c.   Stairs and Balconies. Outside stairways and balconies may project into the
                   rear yard up to three feet.


      C. Height. The maximum height for a residential structure is five seven stories. Buildings of
      six and seven stories are limited to State Street and 7200 South frontages. When a residential
      structure is located within sixty-five feet of a single family structure, the maximum height of the
      structure or portion of the structure is three stories.


      E. Floor Area Ratio. For development of medium and high density residential uses, the
      maximum FAR is 1‘5 3.0.


      G. Stories. All building types must be from one to fivc seven stories. Six and seven story
      buildings are limited to State Street and 7200 South frontages.




                                                                           Ordinance No. 2016-0-04
2. Amend Section 17-7-8.5; retail, office and mixed-use development standards; as
    follows:


       D.   Height.

                1. Mixed Use. The maximum height for a mixed use structure is seven stories.
                Buildings of six and seven stories are limited to State Street and 7200 South
                frontages. When a mixed use structure or portion of a structure is located within sixty-
                five feet of a single family residential structure outside the project/development
                boundary, the maximum height of the structure or portion of the structure is three
                stories.




       E.   Floor Area Ratio. For new mixed usc development, the minimum FAR is 0.80 and the
       maximum FAR is 3.0. For development commercial uses, the FAR is 0.80.


SSC Zone — Chapter 17-7-7

1. Amend Section 17-7-7.4 Lot and development standards as follows:

   C. Height.

                1. Mixed Use. The maximum height for a mixed use structure is fifty-five feet for a
                sloped roof or fifty-two feet for a flat roof, and may extend up to seventy-five feet for a
                sloped roof or seventy-two feet for a flat roof for portions of the structure more than
                fifty feet from a single family residential zoning district.




                EAGge.GI-FG8T-9.1-4-1-A                       E1-98.144,948-0T-IF




                                                                                Ordinance No. 2016-0-04
