ORDINANCE NO. 11/15/2016 O-16

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 5.10.030 OF THE MIDVALE CITY
MUNICIPAL CODE; ALSO PROVIDING A SAVING CLAUSE AND AN EFFECTIVE
DATE FOR THE ORDINANCE.

WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 10-6-12 Utah Code Annotated 1953 as amended, the
City has authority to adopt the Midvale City Municipal Code; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah, held a public meeting regarding the
amendment of certain sections of Title 5 on November 15, 2016; and

WHEREAS, the City Council found the proposed amendments appropriate in furthering
the goals and policies of the City of Midvale.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah
as follows:

Section 1. The Municipal Code which sets forth the laws and policies within Midvale
City, is hereby amended as follows:

See Attachment “A”

Section 2. If any part of this ordinance or the applications thereof to any person or
circumstances shall, for any reason, be adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
unconstitutional or invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair or invalidate the remainder of
this ordinance or the application thereof to other persons and circumstances, but shall be
confined to its operation to the section, subdivision, sentence or part of the section and the
persons and circumstances directly involved in the controversy in which such judgment shall
have been rendered. It is hereby declared to be the intent of the City Council that this section
would have been adopted if such invalid section, provisions, subdivision, sentence or part of a
section or application had not been included.

Section 3. This ordinance shall be effective upon date of first publication.

Signatures begin on next page

PASSED AND APPROVED this |O'ay of Novem Ao , 2016.
O B. Seghini, Mayor : |

ATTEST:
. e* pol ¥> ‘

A gp ite L

A sO "5

P Of Pod y * E
Rori L. Andreason, MMC wh & ¢ 2 i
City Recorder 2s 4 ww fu
Date of first publication: NOV. 220,20! Le hy ape

5.10.030 Licenses requiring local consent and licensing. mn
A. It is unlawful for any person, partnership or corporation to engage in the business of the sale, manufacture,
wholesaling or warehousing of alcoholic beverages without first having obtained a license authorizing such
activity. It is unlawful for any person, partnership or corporation to operate a business or conduct any activity,
association or club which allows members, guests, visitors or other persons to purchase, possess or consume
alcoholic beverages on the premises of a nonresidential facility without first having obtained a license
authorizing such business or activity.
B. All licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall comply with the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act of Utah
(Section 32A-1-101 et seq. of the Utah Code), the regulations of the Utah Department of Alcoholic Beverage
Control, and with the provisions of this chapter.
C. All licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall be reviewed by and receive a positive recommendation
from the planning division, fire department, police department, building division, and the Salt Lake Valley health
department.
D. All licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall comply with the distance requirements set forth by the
Alcoholic Beverage Control Act of Utah (Section 32A-1-101 et seq. of the Utah Code). Due to the city’s fourth
class city status as set forth by state law, the Utah Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission may, after full
investigation and determination that the distance requirements would result in peculiar and exceptional
practical difficulties or exceptional and undue hardships in granting a license, following a public hearing,
authorize a variance from the distance requirements to relieve the difficulties or hardships.
E. All licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall at all times be conspicuously displayed to the public in the
place to which it shall refer and for which it shall be issued.
F. The following retail licenses require local consent of Midvale City prior to submittal of an application to the
Utah Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission:
1. Package agency.
2. Restaurant liquor. Restaurant liquor licenses grant the right to make available liquor, beer and wine
to patrons of the restaurant. Sale of meals and food is the primary business purpose of the restaurant in
accordance with Utah Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission rules and regulations.

3. Limited restaurant. Limited restaurant licenses grant the right to make available beer and wine to
patrons of the restaurant. Sale of meals and food is the primary business purpose of the restaurant in
accordance with Utah Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission rules and regulations.

4. On-premises banquet. On-premises banquet licenses grant the right of banquet facilities to make
available alcoholic beverages to users of banqueting facilities. Sale of meals and food is the primary
business purpose of the banqueting facility in accordance with Utah Alcoholic Beverage Control
Commission rules and regulations.

5. Private club classes A, B, C, and D. Private club licenses of all classes grant the right to make
available alcoholic beverages to patrons.

6. Special use permit. Special use permit licenses grant the right to purchase, store, sale, use,
consume, or manufacture alcoholic products for limited purposes in accordance with the rules stated in
the permit issued by the Utah Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission. The following persons or
organizations are eligible for a special use permit: sacramental wine permit to a church or religious
organization, industrial or manufacturing use permit to a person or organization engaged in an industrial
or manufacturing pursuit; scientific or educational use permit to a person or organization engaged in a
scientific or educational pursuit; health care facility use permit to a hospital or health care facility; and
public service permit to an operator of an airline, railroad, or other public conveyance.

7. Single event permit. Single event permits are available to a bona fide corporation, church, political
organization, or incorporated association or to a recognized subordinate lodge, chapter or other local
unit thereof that is conducting a convention, civic, or community enterprise. The single event permit shall
authorize local consent for the issuance of a single event permit by the Commission for a period not to
exceed seventy-two hours. The same organization, corporation, church, or political organization, or
subordinate lodge, chapter, or other local unit thereof may be issued local consent for a single event no
more than we times in a calendar year. The proximity limitations identified in this section do not apply
to single event permits.

8. On-premises beer retailer. On-premises beer retailer licenses grant the right to make available beer
to patrons of the restaurant. Sale of meals and food is the primary business purpose of the restaurant in
accordance with Utah Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission rules and regulations.

9. On-premises beer retailer—tavern. On-premises beer retailer—tavern licenses grant the right to
make available beer to patrons.
