ORDINANCE NO. 2016-O0-07
AN ORDINANCE CREATING A NEW OVERLAY WITHIN THE REGIONAL
COMMERCIAL ZONE DISTRICT WHICH ALLOWS MEDIUM AND HIGH
DENSITY RESIDENTIAL AND MIXED-USE DEVELOPMENTS AND
PROVIDES DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR SUCH USES; ALSO
PROVIDING A SAVING CLAUSE AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE FOR THE
ORDINANCE.

WHEREAS, pursuant to Sections 10-9a-501 through 10-9a-504 Utah State Code,
the City has the authority to make and amend a zoning plan which divides the City into
zoning districts and within those districts to regulate the erection, construction, re-
construction, alteration, and uses of buildings and structures and the uses of land to
promote the prosperity, improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, convenience,
and aesthetics of the municipality; and

WHEREAS, on January 2, 2002, the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance (Title 17 of
the Midvale Municipal Code) became effective and may be subject to amendments from
time to time; and

WHEREAS, since this effective date, Midvale City has found a number of areas
that require amendments to the text of the ordinance in order to correct errors and
omissions, clarify the intent of the language, and/or include new provisions to further the
vision of the City; and

WHEREAS, the City has determined it is important to create a critical mass to
help support and increase the vitality of existing and future commercial uses and better
utilize the existing properties in the Regional Commercial Zone District; and

WHEREAS, the City has determined a way to do this is to allow medium and
high density residential and mixed-use development under certain parameters in areas
zoned Regional Commercial; and

a yr

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission discussed this concept on May 25, 2016
as part of its regular meeting; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on June 8, 2016 to
review proposed text amendment language regarding this concept, with such meeting
being preceded by notice through publication in the Salt Lake Tribune and Deseret News
on May 25, and the Planning Commission forwarded a recommendation with specific
language to the City Council on June 8, 2016; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on
July 12, 2016, which meeting was preceded by notice through publication in the Salt
Lake Tribune and Deseret News on June 28, 2016; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah, after taking into
consideration citizen testimony, planning analysis, and the Planning Commission
recommendation, finds the creation of a new overlay within the Regional Commercial
Zone District to allow medium and high density residential and mixed-use development
is appropriate and within the best interests of the City.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale
City, Utah as follows:

Section 1. The Midvale Municipal Code, which sets forth the laws and policies
within Midvale City, is hereby amended to include “ATTACHMENT A” of this
document.

Section 2. If any part of this ordinance or the applications thereof to any person
or circumstances shall, for any reason, be adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction
to be unconstitutional or invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair or invalidate the
remainder of this ordinance or the application thereof to other persons and circumstances,
but shall be confined to its operation to the section, subdivision, sentence or part of the
section and the persons and circumstances directly involved in the controversy in which
such judgment shall have been rendered. It is hereby declared to be the intent of the City
Council that this section would have been adopted if such invalid section, provisions,
subdivision, sentence or part of a section or application had not been included.

Section 3. This ordinance shall be effective upon publication of a summary
thereof.

PASSED AND APPROVED this | day of C | ls 7 4 , 2016.

| : A B. Seghini, Mayor
ATTEST:
€ . i
: veg fe)
u_ 2c Qf MCPORAr Ne
Rofi Andreason, MMC = F = 3
City Recorder re, ed Ps
Oe ~
Date of first pubiation AaOy TL do CRATE S
Voting by City Council “Aye” “Nay”

Stephen Brown —

Paul Glover a ee

Paul Hunt —

Wayne Sharp a

Quinn Sperry —

2 Ordinance No. 2016-O-07

ATTACHMENT A
3 Ordinance No. 2016-O-07

Chapter 17-7-12.1
Regional Commercial Residential Overlay

Sections:
17-7-12.1.1 Purpose.
17-7-12.1.2 Use Table.
17-7-12.1.3 Medium and High Density Residential and Mixed-Use Standards.
17-7-12.1.4 Site Design Requirements.
17-7-12.1.5 Parking and Access.
17-7-12.1.6 Architectural Standards.
17-7-12.1.7 Utilities.
17-7-12.1.8 Development Agreement Required
17-7-12.1.9 Signage.
17-7-12.1.1 Purpose.
The Midvale City General Plan identifies the Fort Union Area and 7200 South corridor between I-15
and State Street as “Opportunity Areas” of the City. Opportunity Areas are defined as those where
changes in the types and/or intensities of current land uses are anticipated. Encouraging a mix of
residential and commercial uses is important to provide the critical mass necessary to support the
existing commercial, attract new, viable businesses to the area and support the growth of the region.
This overlay zone implements the goal of supporting and enhancing existing commercial areas by
providing standards for the development of medium and high density residential and mixed use
developments within the Regional Commercial zone. This chapter informs the owners of the standards
that will be applied in approving or disapproving proposed developments. A development plan
including site layout, parking, landscaping, architecture and relationship to the surrounding commercial
development shall be submitted along with a request to apply the Residential Overlay zone to any
parcel within the Regional Commercial Zone.
To utilize the Regional Commercial Residential Overlay, it must be demonstrated the proposed
development fulfills the FOMOWING Goad! i ccsssusnnnuinnnnnnniinanninnnnnnannnnnene

4 Ordinance No. 2016-O-07

A. Provides critical mass necessary to help facilitate the transition of regional commercial shopping
centers into vibrant mixed-use developments;
B. Creates a consistently high quality urban environment;
C. Enhances the investment of those locating within the Regional Commercial zone;
D. Promotes economic development by increasing the utilization of existing parcels within current
developments;
E. Eliminates large underutilized surface parking areas by utilizing alternate parking methods,
including but not limited to structured parking and shared parking;
F. Provides compatibility between residential and commercial uses to create a comfortable
environment for both shoppers and residents; and
G. Provides pedestrian connections within and among developments to support pedestrian activity in
existing auto-oriented developments and encourages pedestrian movement.
17-7-12.1.2 Use table.
If a use is not specifically designated, then it is prohibited.
Table 17-7-12.1.2
Uses
Type Allowed Administrative Conditional Business
License
Multi-Family FT a
*Allowed commercial uses within a mixed use building shall be subject to the use list in Table 17-7-
12.2 and conditional use standards in Section 17-7-12.9 where Applicable. i cacssssmsnnan
5 Ordinance No. 2016-O-07

17-7-12.1.3 Medium and high density residential and mixed-use development standards.
The following development standards apply to all new development:
A. Lot Size. No minimum lot size, but must be sufficient to accomplish the goals of the Residential
Overlay.
B. Setbacks. New development shall comply with the following setbacks:
1. Front. When adjacent to a public road, the minimum front yard landscaped setback is fifteen
feet, subject to the exceptions noted below. Corner lots have two front yards. The front yard
setback is measured from the property line. The front yard setback is a build-to line. At least fifty
percent of the front elevation must be built within three feet of the build-to line. The structure
may be set back an additional fifteen feet to allow for the inclusion of a courtyard. The Planning
Commission may also modify this requirement for changes in wall plane due to architectural
features or if the site is encumbered by curvilinear roads and/or property lines.
Exceptions:
a. Canopies at least eight feet above ground level may project up to five feet.
b. Balconies on second stories and above may project up to five feet.
c. Projections such as sills, cornices, eaves, and ornamental features may project up to
two and one-half feet.
2. Rear. There is no rear yard setback except as required by the International Building Code
and landscape buffers.
3. Side. There is no side yard setback except as required by the International Building Code
and landscape buffers.
4. Single Family Setback. The minimum setback from the property line, when adjacent to a
single family residential zone, is fifteen feet, subject to the following exceptions:
a. Three-story structures must be set back thirty-seven feet; four-story structures must
be set back sixty-six feet; and five-story structures must be set back eighty-three feet; six-
story structures must be setback one hundred feet; and seven-story structures and higher
must be setback one hundred sixteen feet. Structures can have stepped building heights
to accommodate setbacks.
6 Ordinance No. 2016-O-07

b. Residential Buffer. New development shall provide a minimum fifteen-foot
landscaped buffer consisting of large trees, shrubs, and a six-foot screening wall as
approved by the planning commission. The screening wall shall be constructed of wood,
metal, brick, masonry or other permanent materials along all property boundaries adjacent
to single family residential zones.
Residential Buffering
Standard
5 A
th
Lt, 2 ie~
a yy
. ot Aah See
woh Y ake ~ee et. Ft B
Cc
VY °
intmum 15" Landscape Buller Zone esidential Development
Transit-Oriented Development
A — Large (Class 3) trees 30' on center (alternate with &' tall evergreens)
B — Low shrub buffer
C — Tall shrub zone (8’ — 10' mature height)
D — Six-foot-tall screening wall as approved by commission
C. Density. The maximum density for residential development is 85 units per acre.
D. Snow Removal. A plan for snow removal and/or storage shall be submitted for review by the
planning staff.
17-7-12.1.4 Site Design Requirements
The following standards apply to all new development and to the expansion by more than twenty-five
percent of an existing building mass or site size in the zone:
7 Ordinance No. 2016-O-07

A. Landscaping. The applicant shall professionally landscape the lot, according to an approved
landscape plan, as a condition precedent to receiving a certificate of occupancy for all uses. The
community development director shall evaluate landscape plans for all permitted uses. The planning
commission shall evaluate landscape plans for conditional uses. Landscape plan approval is a
condition precedent to issuance of a building permit for the parcel. All landscaping shall be in place
prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy, unless seasonal conditions make installation unfeasible,
in which case the applicant shall provide cash security or its approved alternative for all landscaping,
which landscaping shall be installed by the following May 31st.
1. Minimum Landscaped Area. The applicant must landscape a minimum of ten feet
between the side yard or rear yard and the abutting property line when the side or rear yards
are in public view.
2. Building Foundation Landscaping. The ground adjacent to the building foundation must
be landscaped if it is visible from public vantage points.
3. Street Frontage Tree Requirements. An applicant shall provide at least one street tree for
each thirty lineal feet of frontage. Street frontage trees may be clustered or spaced linearly in
the park strip as provided in an approved landscape plan.
4. Minimum Number of Trees. A minimum of one tree for every four hundred square feet of
landscaping is required for all landscaped areas. Street trees may be included in calculations
in order to meet this requirement.
5. Landscaped setback from edge of public right-of-way. The landscaped setback from the
edge of a public right-of-way shall be fifteen feet.
6. Plant Materials. Areas requiring landscaping shall be planted with substantial live plant
material including: plants, shrubs, trees, sod, etc., for the purpose of buffering, screening, and
improving the visual quality of the site.
a. Types of Vegetation. At least twenty-five percent of the landscaping must be
evergreen. Up to twenty-five percent of the landscape area can include specialty
paving, street furniture, and outdoor seating areas. Trees that are planted in the park
strip shall meet the specifications described in the standard construction
specifications of Midvale City.
8 Ordinance No. 2016-O-07

b. Size of Trees. The following standards apply to the use of plant and tree
material.

i. Deciduous Trees. All deciduous trees shall have a minimum caliper size

of two inches. :

ii. Ornamental Trees. All ornamental trees shall have a minimum caliper

size of one and one-half inches.

iii. Evergreen Trees. All evergreen trees shall have a minimum height of six

feet.
7. Standards of Title 17-7-12.6 (5) — Irrigation/Planting Plan.
8. Vegetation Protection. The property owner must protect existing significant vegetation
during any development activity. Development plans must show all significant vegetation
within twenty feet of a proposed development. Prior to certificate of occupancy, the property
owner must demonstrate the health and viability of all large trees through a certified arborist.
9. Removal. No landscaping may be removed without replacement of equal or better quality.
This shall include the installation of healthy plant materials as well as a tree for tree
replacement as governed by this section.
10. Upgrading Pre-Existing Landscaping. The applicant must bring pre-existing landscaping
into compliance with this code.
11. Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design (CPTED). The plan must demonstrate
how CPTED principles will be used in the design and layout of buildings, streets, accesses
and open space areas. Design shall promote natural surveillance, access control, territorial
reinforcement, sense of ownership, and maintenance. CPTED landscaping guidelines shall be
used, including planting shrubs with a maximum height of three feet and trees with a proper
ground clearance of six feet above walkways and sidewalks and eight feet above vehicular
travel and parking lanes. To encourage public safety through natural surveillance, natural
access control, and territorial reinforcement, blank walls are not permitted adjacent to streets,
pedestrian areas, and open space amenities. Symbolic barriers, such as low lying
fences/walls, landscaping and signage shall be used to discourage crime and to promote

9 Ordinance No. 2016-O-07

safety. Ground floor parking garages shall not be permitted immediately adjacent to streets.

Developments shall have street side building elevations with extensive windows, and with

balconies, decks or landscape terraces encouraged.
B. Fencing. Unless the applicant can demonstrate a need for fencing for the protection of recreational
amenities or the screening of necessary ground level equipment and service areas, fencing is
prohibited. Fencing around recreational amenities shall be designed to be visually open as with
wrought iron or similar material.
C. Open Space, Landscaping and Outdoor Recreational Amenities. The applicant shall improve a
minimum of thirty percent (30%) of the interior of the proposed development area as open space,
landscaping and outdoor recreational amenity areas. These areas include such improvements as
landscaped areas not less than five feet wide, landscaped setbacks, elevated plazas, walkways, paths,
and outdoor recreation spaces such as pools, playgrounds, etc. Improved, common recreational
amenities shall be concentrated into larger, more functional areas as much as possible.
D. Common Recreational Amenities. The applicant shall provide appropriate recreational amenities
for the project. This shall be demonstrated to the Planning Commission as part of its review and
approval of the project. These amenities can be indoor and/or outdoor facilities.
E. Pedestrian Connections. Walkways of at least five feet in width shall be incorporated within and
between developments where possible. Where walkways cross roads or driveways, stamped concrete
or asphalt, or other distinguishable material, shall be used to construct crosswalks.
17-7-12.1.5 Parking and Access
An applicant for new development must provide off-street parking with adequate provisions for
independent ingress and egress by automobiles and other motorized vehicles. If any land, structure, or
use is changed to create more off-street parking demand, the owner must provide additional off-street
parking for the new use as required by this chapter. Off-street parking and development access shall
meet the following standards:
A. Parking Ratio Requirements. Required parking must be on-site unless the Planning Commission
allows such parking on adjacent or nearby deed-restricted lots. Off-street parking shall meet the
following standards; however, the Planning Commission may grant a reduction of up to twenty-five
percent of the required parking upon an applicant’s demonstration of opportunities for shared parking
within a mixed-use area or appropriate on-street parking.

10 Ordinance No. 2016-O-07

Table 17-7-12.1.5
Parking
Studio and 1 Bedroom units 1.0 stalls per unit
2 Bedroom units 2.0 stalls per unit
3+ Bedroom units 2.5 stalls per unit
Guest parking 1.0 stalls per 4 units, unless Planning
Commission determines fewer stalls are needed
based on available shared parking with an office
use
B. Driveway Widths and Parking Lot Standards. The following driveway width dimensions and
parking lot standards apply to all new development and to the expansion by more than twenty-five
percent of an existing building mass or site size. The city engineer may approve minor variations
(equal to or less than ten percent) in driveway width and spacing.
1. Parking. No parking is allowed within the required front yard setbacks.
a. If a parking lot or driveway to a parking lot is proposed to abut a residential use,
the applicant must screen the lot or drive and provide adequate sight distance
triangle.
b. Required Landscaping. The following landscaping standards apply to new
development:
11 Ordinance No. 2016-O-07

i. Parking areas with more than four stalls must have perimeter
landscaping of at least five feet in width;
iii. Parking areas with over fifteen spaces shall provide landscaped islands
at the end of each parking row, an island for every fifteen spaces, and
perimeter landscaping of at least five feet in width.
2. Driveway Standards. For all new development, driveways shall comply with the following
standards:
a. No driveway shall be less than fifty feet from intersecting rights-of-way.
b. Driveways that exceed fifteen feet in width at the lot frontage must be separated
by a landscaped area of at least twelve feet in width and ten feet in depth.
c. Development Requiring Five or More Parking Spaces. The minimum two-way
drive width is twenty-four feet. The maximum two-way drive width is thirty-six feet.
d. Development Requiring Four or Fewer Parking Spaces. The minimum two-way
drive width is twenty feet. The maximum two-way drive width is thirty feet.
3. Spacing. New development shall provide the following:
a. Aminimum of seventy-five feet spacing between major driveways is
recommended. Shared use of drives is strongly recommended.
b. Centerline. The centerline of intersections of the driveways of major traffic
generators entering from opposite sides of roadway must be either perfectly aligned
or offset by a minimum of one hundred fifty feet.
c. Deviations. The city engineer may approve minor spacing deviations (equal to or
less than ten percent).
IZ Ordinance No. 2016-O-07

Table 17-7-12.1.5
Spacing
Minimum Minimum
Spacing Spacing From
Street Between Intersection
Classification | Driveways (feet) | (feet)
ow fe fo
4. Surfacing. Parking areas and driveways must be hard-surfaced, maintained in good
condition, and clear of obstructions at all times.
5. Parking Space Dimensions. All new development shall provide parking spaces of the
following minimum dimensions. The city engineer may approve minor (equal to or less than
ten percent) variations in parking space dimensions.
a. Parking spaces must be nine feet wide by eighteen feet long;
b. ADA parking space width requirements vary and shall be consistent with current
Building Code standards; and
c. Compact spaces with dimensions of nine feet wide by sixteen feet long may be
provided. These spaces are not code spaces for the purpose of satisfying parking
requirements.
6. Grading and Drainage. Parking shall be graded and constructed as follows:
13 Ordinance No. 2016-O-07

a. Parking areas must be graded for proper drainage with surface water diverted to
keep the parking area free of accumulated water and ice;
b. Adequate control curbs must be installed to control drainage and direct vehicle
movement;
c. Parking area drainage must be detained on-site, treated (if required by NPDES), and
channeled to a storm drain or gutter as approved by the city engineer;
d. Driveways may not exceed a ten percent slope.
7. Street Access and Circulation. New development shall provide the following:

a. Off-Street Parking. Off-street parking areas must have unobstructed access to a
street or alley. The parking area design for five or more vehicles must not encourage cars
to back onto adjoining public sidewalks, parking strips, or roadways. With the exception of
permitted tandem parking, parking spaces shall be independently accessible and
unobstructed.
b. Corner Lots. No landscape obstruction is allowed in excess of two feet in height
above street grade within the sight distance triangle. A reasonable number of trees with
lower branches pruned to six feet to permit automobile drivers and pedestrians an
unobstructed view of the intersection may be allowed by administrative permit.
c. Driveway Access. For corner lots, the triangular area is defined by the intersection of
the road right-of-way, the line extending from the point-of-curve at the top-back-of-curb,
and a line connecting them at points twenty-five feet from their intersection.
d. Drive-Through Developments. Applicants for all drive-up or drive-through service
windows or facilities must provide sufficient stacking space for vehicles waiting for
service, to prevent vehicles from waiting in the right-of-way.
e. Common Driveways. To encourage the location of parking in the rear yard and/or
below grade, the city allows common driveways along shared side yards to provide
access to parking if the owner restricts the deeds to both properties to preserve the
shared drive in perpetuity.

14 Ordinance No. 2016-O-07

f. Off-Street Loading Spaces. Every structure that is to be used for any purpose which
involves the receipt or distribution of materials or merchandise by vehicle must provide
and maintain adequate space for standing, loading, or unloading services off-street.
i. All such loading areas or berths shall be located so that no vehicle loading or
unloading merchandise or other material shall be parked in any front yard or in any
street or right-of-way.
ii. Loading docks and loading areas must be screened from adjoining property and
public rights-of-way.
C. Parking Garages and Structures. Parking garages and structures shall meet the following
standards:
1. Parking structures shall include pedestrian walkways and connections to the sidewalk
system. These shall be clearly marked and continuous in design.
2. This zoning ordinance is intended, among others, to encourage the use of parking
structures and discourage the use of surface parking. Therefore, the Planning Commission may
waive one or all of the following requirements if an architect can demonstrate that the
requirement in question is not feasible and when the architect has utilized other architectural
methods to blend the structure with neighboring structures and screen the visual impacts of the
structure.
a. Parking structures shall contain ground level retail, office or display windows along all
street-fronting facades of the parking structure. Parking structures with street frontage in
primarily residential areas may utilize residential units or residential architecture that
reflects surrounding residential units to mask the visual impact of the parking structure.
b. Parking structures that are not located adjacent to or within clear sight of a public
street or other major transportation thoroughfare shall utilize plant material as screening to
minimize the visual impact of the parking structure.
c. Parking structures shall be designed with an architectural theme similar to the
adjoining structures. Openings that face and can be seen from major vehicular and
pedestrian thoroughfares shall be of similar size and, whenever possible, shape to those
found on adjacent buildings.
15 Ordinance No. 2016-O-07
