ORDINANCE NO. 2017-O-17

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING REGULATIONS TO CHAPTER 17-7-10.11

“JORDAN BLUFFS SUBAREA 4 RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT” IN THE

MIDVALE CITY ZONING ORDINANCE; ALSO PROVIDING A SAVING :

CLAUSE AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE FOR THE ORDINANCE.

WHEREAS, pursuant to Sections 10-9a-501 through 10-9a-505 Utah Code Annotated
1953 as amended the City has authority to make and amend a zoning plan which divides the City
into zoning districts and within those districts to regulate the erection, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, and uses of buildings and structures and the uses of land; and

WHEREAS, Pursuant to Section 17-1-1 A. of the Midvale City Municipal Code the City
desires to “Promote coordinated development, redevelopment, effective use of land, and site
planning; and

WHEREAS, Pursuant to Section 17-1-1 1. of the Midvale City Municipal Code the City
desires to “Foster convenient, compatible and efficient relationships among land uses; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale finds it fair and equitable to divide the City
into zoning districts that provides for the orderly development and thoughtful designation of
locations of certain uses throughout the City; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on September 27, 2017 to
review the request and has made recommendations thereon to the City Council; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on October
17, 2017, which meeting was preceded by notice by publication in the Salt Lake Tribune, on
October 03, 2017, and has taken into consideration citizen testimony, and planning and
demographic data;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah
as follows:

Section 1. The zoning ordinance which sets forth the zone districts and the uses allowed
in those districts within Midvale City and the following sections of said zoning ordinance are
hereby amended as follows:

Attachment “A”

Section 2. If any part of this ordinance or the applications thereof to any person or
circumstances shall, for any reason, be adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
unconstitutional or invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair or invalidate the remainder of
this ordinance or the application thereof to other persons and circumstances, but shall be
confined to its operation to the section, subdivision, sentence or part of the section and the
persons and circumstances directly involved in the controversy in which such judgment shall
have been rendered. It is hereby declared to be the intent of the City Council that this section
would have been adopted if such invalid section, provisions, subdivision, sentence or part of a
section or application had not been included.

Section 3. This ordinance shall be effective on this date. :
PASSED AND APPROVED this [Weday of \ (OViMPLE , 2017.
Cor UTaD Oo B. Seghini, aes
ATTEST: aS & % “\ Voting by the Council: “Aye” “Nay”
> f & & \ ¥ Steve Brown Va
oh Sf FE Paul Glover x |
w Fs  & eS Paul Hunt ue

IW & CO Quinn Sperry Wai
¢ Andreason, du
City Recorder

: Attachment A
Ordinance No. 2017-O-17 [
Chapter 17-7-10.11
Jordan Bluffs Subarea 4 Residential Development :
Sections:
17-7-10.11.1 Purpose. :
17-7-10.11.2 Uses.
17-7-10.11.3 Review Process.
17-7-10.11.4 Residential Development Standards.
17-7-10.11.5 Landscaping Standards.
17-7-10.11.6 Architectural Standards. :
17-7-10.11.7 | Parking and Access.
17-7-10.11.8 Utilities.
17-7-10.11.9 Signage. :
17-7-10.11.10 | Home Occupation Standards.
17-7-10-11.11 Institutional Controls.
17-7-10.11.1 Purpose.
The purpose of this Chapter is to create the zoning plan required in Chapter 17-7-10 and the specific
development review process for residential development in Subarea 4 of the Jordan Bluffs Zone. This
chapter applies to all residential development in the area depicted as Subarea 4 in the Jordan Bluffs
Zone and described as Lot 1 in the Jordan Bluffs Subdivision. Provisions of Title 17 of the Midvale
Municipal Code shall apply to residential development in Subarea 4 except to the extent that a
provision conflicts or is inconsistent with the provisions set forth in this Chapter, in which case the
provision of this Chapter shall apply. Figure 1 represents the divisions of Subarea 4 created for the
purpose of identifying areas for specific development standards contained herein. The boundaries of
these areas may be adjusted based on final interior road location.
4835-2006-3052

Attachment A ’
Ordinance No. 2017-O-17
Figure 1
Subarea 4 Divisions
poten MAIN $I
7
~~azt
ad :
Area B
|
4 v
< o
os R
be PAGES A r @ a C
Area A
“2
Ghia iy aco"
17-7-10.11.2 Uses.
A. Use Table. The following uses are allowed with the applicable development permit(s) in
Jordan Bluffs Subarea 4. If a use is not specifically designated, then it is prohibited.
. Table 17-7-10.11.2
Uses
Type Allowed Administrative Conditional Business
License
4835-2006-3052

Child Care, In-Home:
Center: < 6 children xX Xx :
Facility: 7 to 12 children X X
Dwellings:
Multi-Family X
Single Family, Attached X :
Religious/Educational X
Institution
Residential Facility for X
Elderly Persons
Residential Facility for 4
Persons with a ;
Disability
B. Conditional use standards of review. The city shall not issue a conditional use permit unless
the community development department, in the case of an administrative conditional use, or
the planning commission, for all other conditional uses, concludes that the application
mitigates adverse impacts and complies with the following general standards applicable to all |
conditional uses, as well as the specific standards for the use.
1. General Review Criteria. An applicant for a conditional use in Subarea 4 must
demonstrate: :
a. The application complies with all applicable provisions of this title, state and
federal law;
b. The structures associated with the use are compatible with surrounding
structures in terms of use, scale, mass and circulation; |
c. The use is not detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare;
d. The use is consistent with the Midvale City General Plan, as amended;
3
Ordinance No. 2017-O-17 {

e. Traffic conditions are not adversely affected by the proposed use including
4 the existence of or need for dedicated turn lanes, pedestrian access, and
d capacity of the existing streets;

f. Sufficient utility capacity;

g. Sufficient emergency vehicle access;

h. Location and design of off-street parking as well as compliance with off-
street parking standards provided for in Section 17-7-10.11.7;

i. Fencing, screening, and landscaping to separate the use from adjoining uses

and mitigate the potential for conflict in uses;

j. Compatibility of the proposed mass, bulk, design, orientation, and location of
the structures on the site, including compatibility with buildings on adjoining
lots and to the street;

k. Exterior lighting that complies with the lighting standards of the zone and is
designed to minimize conflict and light trespass with surrounding uses; and

|. Within and adjoining the site, impacts on the aquifer, slope retention, flood

potential and appropriateness of the proposed structure to the topography of
the site.

2. Specific Review Criteria for Certain Conditional Uses. In addition to the foregoing, the
community development department or planning commission must review each of the
following criteria when considering approving or denying an application for each of
the following conditional uses:

a. Child Care. Each application for a child care facility or center must include:

i. Proof of a state child care license;
ii. Compliance with state, federal and local law; and
iii. A delivery, traffic and parking plan which adequately mitigates the
adverse impacts of increased traffic generation.
b. Assisted Living. Each application for an assisted living use must comply with
the following:
i. The maximum number of residents shall be:
(A) Eight for structures fronting on public streets smaller than
collector streets; and
(B) Sixteen for structures fronting on public streets considered
collector streets or larger.
4
Ordinance No. 2017-O-17

ii. A complete application shall include: |

(A) Proof of state license for assisted living or its equivalent;

(B) A design, residential in character and architecturally
compatible with the neighborhood, which adequately :
screens the use from neighboring lots; complies with Utah |
Department of Health standards;

(C) An outdoor lighting plan which adequately screens lighting
to mitigate its impact on surrounding uses;

(D) A sign plan which includes no more than two square feet of
signage for facilities on public streets smaller than collector
streets, and monument signs not to exceed thirty-two
square feet for facilities on public streets considered
collector streets or larger; and

(E) A delivery, traffic and parking plan which adequately
mitigates the adverse impacts of increased traffic
generation on the neighborhood in which it is located. The
parking plan should propose parking appropriate to the
proposed use of the facility.

17-7-10.11.3 Development review process.
The following development review process applies to all new development in Jordan Bluffs Subarea 4. |
A. Large Scale Master Plan. A large scale master planned development application is required
for Subarea 4 as a whole prior to any specific development applications, i.e. subdivision plats,
site plans, conditional use permits, building permits. Subdivision plats creating development
parcels are exempt from this requirement. The large scale master plan shall address the :
following development standards:
1. Environmental Constraints. Due to the limitations of the capped portions of the
Jordan Bluffs site all wet utilities and landscaped areas shall be installed as regulated
by this title, the Institutional Controls, Site Management Plan (2017) and Site |
Modification Plan (2004). The capped portion of Subarea 4 is identified as “Area C’” in :
Figure 1 of this Chapter.
3
Ordinance No. 2017-O-17

2. Residential Density. The maximum residential density is thirty (30) units per acre
averaged over Subarea 4.

3. Recreational Amenities. The applicant shall improve a minimum of fifteen (15)
percent averaged over the entire Subarea 4 as functional outdoor and indoor

, recreational amenity areas for residents of the development. These amenities include
such improvements as elevated plazas designed for recreation purposes; outdoor

recreation spaces such as pools, playgrounds, informal playing fields; and the square
footage of buildings and interior spaces devoted to amenity and recreational use.
Improved, common recreational amenities shall be located within close proximity or

easily accessible to all residential projects within the Subarea 4.

4. Open Space, Landscaping and Recreational Amenities. The applicant shall improve a
minimum of twenty-five (25) percent averaged over the entire Subarea 4 as open
space, landscaping and recreational amenity areas. These areas include such

improvements as landscaped areas not less than five (5) feet wide, landscaped
setbacks, walkways, paths, and recreational amenities as described above. For
purposes of clarification, the portion of the fifteen (15) percent recreational amenity
standard located outside of buildings shall be included with the minimum twenty-five
(25) percent open space standard.

5. Building Height Transition. In “Area A” and “Area B” identified in Figure 1 of this

Chapter, the maximum height allowed for structures is four stories, not to exceed fifty
(50) feet measured to the top of the highest parapet or the midpoint of a sloped roof,
subject to the following exception: when a structure is less than sixty (60) feet from a
property with a residential use, the maximum height shall be three stories, not to
exceed forty (40) feet measured to the top of the highest parapet or the midpoint of a
sloped roof.

6. Public Road Improvements. The applicant shall provide the following public road
improvements:

a. Bingham Junction Boulevard from 7800 South to the intersection of the
extension of Ivy Drive as depicted on the Jordan Bluffs Subarea Plan.
Bingham Junction Boulevard shall include a public right-of-way of ninety-two

(92) feet to include a center raised planter/left turn lane with two traffic lanes,
a bike lane, planter area and sidewalk on each side as shown by the cross
7 section below.
6
Ordinance No. 2017-O-17

i
PROPOSED RIGHT OF WAY 4
or : 7 so
cr ee BKE Ww 4 ze ee = Wo 0" SKE es or .
WALK) PLANTER | LANE TRAFFIC LANE TraFFic lane 8S canter SSC trarric LANE TRAFFIC LANE LANE PLANTER WALK i
b. Extension of Ivy Drive from Main Street to the intersection of Bingham
Junction Boulevard as depicted on the Jordan Bluffs Subarea Plan. The t
extension of lvy Drive shall include a public right-of-way of seventy (70) feet |
to include sidewalk, planter area, parking lane, bike lane and traffic lane on [
each side as shown by the cross section below. F
pate Se ee Seer 10-6" i 10.6" eR Oe ee | !
side- planter parking bike traffic lane traffic lane bike parking planter side- ¢
walk lane lane jane lane walk t
} 70'-0" revised right of way }
c. Interior Roads. Interior public roads shall be constructed within Subarea 4 to ;
service residential areas. Public roads interior to Subarea 4 shall include [
public rights-of-way of sixty-six (66) feet to include sidewalk, planter area, I
parking lane, and traffic lane on each side as shown by the cross section i
below. i
7
Ordinance No. 2017-O-17

| Attachment A .
Ordinance No. 2017-O-17
: ee) Oe ee 10-6" He 10°6" So
side planter parking traffic lane troffic lane parking planter side

| watk lane jane walk

; 60'-0" existing night of way 1
| d. 7800 South Right-of-Way Improvements. Curb, gutter, sidewalk and

landscape improvements along the south side of 7800 South between Le
Page Street and Bingham Junction Boulevard are required.
e. Main Street Right-of-Way Improvements. Curb, gutter, and sidewalk
improvements along the Main Street property frontage are required. These
improvements shall match and tie into the right-of-way improvements to the
north with the necessary right-of-way property dedicated to Midvale City for
these improvements.
) f. Pedestrian Connections. Walkways of at least five (5) feet in width shall be
incorporated within and between developments, and to Holden Street,
Lennox Street and Main Street. Where walkways cross roads or driveways,
stamped concrete or asphalt, or other distinguishable material, shall be used
| to construct crosswalks.
7. Private Roads. Private roads shall include a right-of-way width of thirty-five (35) feet,
with twenty (20) feet of pavement installed to city specifications and fire code, two
2 and one-half (2.5) feet of curb and gutter on each side and either a five (5) foot
| sidewalk adjacent to the curb on both sides or a four (4) foot sidewalk and a five (5)
foot park strip on one side. On-street parking is not allowed on a private road and the
{ road shall be posted as a no parking area. Private roads shall be owned and
maintained by an owners’ association with an appropriate mechanism in place to
: ensure its long-term maintenance.
: 8. Connections to Existing Neighborhood. The applicant shall provide a pedestrian
connection to Lennox Street and Main Street and pedestrian and_automobile
| connections to Holden Street or Wasatch Street. Pedestrian connections shall be a
| minimum of five-foot wide improved walkways tying in with a project interior
4 pedestrian system. The automobile connection is not required to be a full extension of
4 the adjoining street through the new development, but shall include a minimum drive
4835-2006-3052

width of twenty (20) feet. Other pedestrian and/or automobile connections to the
existing neighborhood to the east are encouraged where such connections provide
for the orderly flow of traffic both within and outside the development and minimize
the concentration of traffic onto any particular city street.
B. Development Agreement. A development agreement, in a form satisfactory to the city attorney
and city council, and consistent with law, shall be required to ensure the property owner
complies with the provisions applying to Subarea 4 of the zoning district, the large scale
master plan and site plan approvals, and allowing the property owner the right to develop in
accordance with the approved plan for a period up to, but not exceeding, fifteen (15) years.
C. Subdivision Plats, Site Plans, Conditional Use Permits and Building Permits. Prior to any
development occurring in Subarea 4, the applicant shall obtain all applicable development
permits as required in Chapter 17-3 and Title 16 of the Midvale Municipal Code. These
development permits shall be consistent with the approved large scale master plan,
development agreement, this chapter and current building code.
17-7-10.11.4 Residential development standards.
The following development standards apply to all new development:
A. Lot Size. No minimum lot size is required, but the lot size must be sufficient to accomplish the
development standards of this chapter and the building code.
B. Setbacks. All setbacks are measured from the property line. There are no minimum setbacks
except as required by the building code, required landscape setbacks, residential landscape
buffers, and the residential setback.
C. Residential Setback. The minimum setback from the property line to a new residential
structure when adjacent to a property with a residential use is twenty (20) feet. :
D. Build-to Line. When adjacent to Main Street, Ivy Drive or an interior public or private road, a |
thirty-foot (30’) landscape setback, measured from the property line adjacent to said road, is
required. In the case of Main Street, the landscape setback shall be measured from the new
right-of-way line created per Section 17-7-10.11.3 (A)(6)(e) herein. These setbacks shall
serve as the build-to line for residential structures. At least fifty (50) percent of the front
elevations must be built within five (5) feet of the build-to line. The planning commission may
modify this requirement for changes in wall plane due to architectural features or if the site is
encumbered by curvilinear roads and/or property lines. Residential structures in “Area A”
9
Ordinance No. 2017-O-17

identified in Figure 1 of this Chapter shall not be subject to the build-to line requirement. At
grade patios and porches may extend into the thirty-foot (30’) landscape setback up to eight
; (8) feet.
E. Residential Density. The maximum residential density is thirty (30) units per acre averaged
: over Subarea 4.
17-7-10.11.5 Landscaping standards.
. The following landscaping standards apply to all new residential development:

A. Required Open Space, Landscaping and Recreational Amenities. The applicant shall
professionally landscape the project property, in accordance with an approved landscape
plan. The landscape plan shall include details for the open space, landscape and recreational
amenity areas required in the approved large scale master plan for the specific development
area. The amount of open space, landscaping and recreation amenity area for a specific
development within Subarea 4 shall not be less than that included in the approved large scale
master plan. Landscape plan approval is a condition precedent to issuance of a building
permit for the project property. All landscaping shall be in place prior to issuance of a
certificate of occupancy for a structure, unless seasonal conditions make installation

unfeasible, in which case the applicant shall provide cash security or its approved alternative
for all landscaping, which landscaping shall be installed by the following May 31st.
B. Landscaped setback from edge of public or private right-of-way. The landscaped setback from
the edge of a public right-of-way or private right-of-way shall be a minimum of thirty (30) feet.
C. Residential Landscape Buffer. New development adjacent to a property with a single-family
use shall provide a minimum fifteen (15) foot landscaped buffer consisting of large trees,
| shrubs, and a minimum six (6) foot and a maximum eight (8) foot screening wall along the
residential property boundary. The screening wall shall be constructed of precast concrete,
SimTek Ecostone Plus (or equivalent), brick, masonry or other permanent materials, and shall
have a finish that complements the development along all property boundaries adjacent to
single family residential use.
D. Planting Standards. Landscape plans shall address the following standards:
1. Building Foundation Landscaping. The ground adjacent to the building foundation
must be landscaped if it is visible from public vantage points. Building foundation
10
Ordinance No. 2017-O-17

landscaping shall consist of a combination of small and medium sized deciduous and
evergreen shrubs, grasses and perennials.
2. Street Frontage Tree Requirements. An applicant shall provide at least one (1) street
tree for each forty lineal feet (40’) of frontage along all public and private roads. Street
frontage trees may be clustered or spaced linearly near the sidewalk as provided in
an approved landscape plan.
3. Minimum Number of Trees. A minimum of one (1) tree for every four hundred (400)
square feet of required landscaping is required for all landscaped areas. Street trees
may be included in calculations to meet this requirement.
4. Plant Materials. Areas requiring landscaping shall be planted with substantial live
plant material including: plants, shrubs, trees, sod, etc., for the purpose of buffering,
screening, and improving the visual quality of the site. Plants selected for landscape
areas shall consist of plants that are well suited to the microclimate and soil
conditions at the project site. Plants with similar water needs shall be grouped
together as much as possible. Landscaped areas less than four feet wide shall be
landscaped with water conserving plants.
a. Types of Vegetation. At least fifteen (15) percent of the landscaping
must be evergreen. Up to twenty-five (25) percent of the landscape area may
include specialty paving, street furniture, and outdoor seating areas. Trees
that are planted in the park strip shall meet the specifications described in
the standard construction specifications of Midvale City.
b. Size of Trees. The following standards apply to the use of plant and
tree material.
ls Deciduous Trees. All deciduous trees shall have a minimum
caliper size one and one-half (1 1%) inches.
ii. Ornamental Trees. All ornamental trees shall have a
minimum caliper size of one and one-half (1 1%) inches.
iii. Evergreen Trees. All evergreen trees shall have a minimum
height of six (6) feet.
5. Mulch. After completion of all planting, all irrigated non-turf areas shall be covered
with a minimum four-inch layer of mulch to retain water, inhibit weed growth, and
moderate soil temperature. Nonporous material shall not be placed under the mulch.
11 :
Ordinance No. 2017-O-17

| 6. Soil Preparation. Soil preparation will be suitable to provide healthy growing
conditions for the plants and to encourage water infiltration and penetration. Soil
preparation shall include scarifying the soil to a minimum depth of six inches and
amending the soil with organic material as per specific recommendations of the
landscape designer based on the soil conditions.
. 7. Planting Plan. A detailed planting plan shall be drawn at a scale that clearly identifies
the following:
a. Location of all plant materials and ground covers, a legend with botanical
and common names, and size of plant materials;
: b. Property lines and street names;
c. Existing and proposed buildings, walls, fences, utilities, paved areas and
other site improvements;
d. Existing trees and plant materials to be removed or retained;
e. Designation of landscape zones; and
f. Details and specification for tree staking (trees less than a two-inch caliper
must be double-staked until the trees mature to two-inch caliper), soil
preparation, and other planting work.

8. Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design (CPTED). The plan must
demonstrate how CPTED principles will be used in the design and layout of buildings,
streets, accesses and open space areas. Design shall promote natural surveillance,
access control, territorial reinforcement, sense of ownership, and maintenance.
CPTED landscaping guidelines shall be used, including planting shrubs so as not to
impede natural surveillance and trees with a proper ground clearance of six feet

above walkways and sidewalks and eight feet above vehicular travel and parking

: lanes. To encourage public safety through natural surveillance, natural access

control, and territorial reinforcement, blank walls are discouraged adjacent to streets,

pedestrian areas, and open space amenities. Symbolic barriers, such as low-lying

: fences/walls, landscaping and signage shall be used to discourage crime and to
promote safety. Ground floor parking garages are discouraged immediately adjacent

: to streets. Developments shall have street-side building elevations, with windows,
and with balconies, decks or landscape terraces encouraged.

9. Plan Review and Construction Inspection.

| 12
Ordinance No. 2017-O-17

a. As part of the site plan approval process, a copy of the landscape plan
documentation package shall be submitted to the city for review and
approval. :
b. Following construction and prior to issuing the approval for occupancy, an
inspection shall be scheduled with the planning department to verify
compliance with the approved landscape plans.
c. The city reserves the right to perform site inspections at any time before,
during or after the irrigation system and landscape installation, and to require
corrective measures if requirements of this chapter are not satisfied. :
10. Removal. No required landscaping shall be removed without replacement of equal or
better quality. This shall include the installation of healthy plant materials as well as a
tree-for-tree replacement as governed by this chapter.
E. Irrigation Standards. Irrigation plans shall be designed to accompany the landscape plan and
shall address the following standards:
1. A pressure-regulating valve shall be installed and maintained by the consumer if the
static service pressure exceeds eighty (80) pounds per square inch (psi). The pressure-
regulating valve shall be located between the meter and the first point of water use, or
first point of division in the pipe, and shall be set at the manufacturer's recommended
pressure for the sprinklers.
2. Allirrigation systems shall include an electric automatic controller with multiple
program and multiple repeat cycle capabilities and a flexible calendar program. All :
controllers shall be equipped with an automatic rain shut-off device, and the ability to
adjust run times based on a percentage of maximum ETO.
3. Onslopes exceeding thirty-three (33) percent, the irrigation system shall consist of
drip emitters, bubblers or sprinklers with a maximum precipitation rate of 0.85 inches per
hour and adjusted sprinkler cycle times to eliminate runoff. i
4. Each valve shall irrigate a landscape with similar site, slope and soil conditions and |
plant materials with similar watering needs. Turf and non-turf areas shall be irrigated on
separate valve. Drip emitters and sprinklers shall be placed on separate valves.
13
Ordinance No. 2017-O-17
