MIDVALE CITY, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2017-0-06
AN ORDINANCE ADJUSTING THE COMMON BOUNDARY WITH MURRAY CITY

WHEREAS, Utah Code Section 10-2-419 establishes a process by which two municipalities

may adjust their common boundary; and

WHEREAS, Pursuant to Utah Code Section 10-2-419, on February 7, 2017 Midvale City

adopted Resolution No. 2017-R-06 indicating the City Council’s intent to adjust the common
boundary; and

WHEREAS, In accordance with section 10-2-419 of the Utah Code, the City published notice

of a public hearing to receive public input on a proposed ordinance approving a boundary adjustment.
Notice was published on the Utah Public Notice Website, the City’s website and a newspaper of
general circulation; and

WHEREAS, the owners of the property described in Exhibit “A”, attached hereto, desire to

develop their properties further; and

WHEREAS, Midvale may more easily accommodate the connection of the properties to

Midvale’s utilities systems; and

WHEREAS, the owners have indicated their desire to have their parcels located within the

boundaries of Midvale City; and

WHEREAS, it is in the best interest of both municipalities to have properties be developed

within Midvale’s jurisdiction.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the City Council of Midvale City as follows:

Section 1. The boundary adjustment with Murray City, as described in Exhibit A, is hereby

approved.

Section 2. Subsequent Actions. The City Council shall:

A. Within 30 days of the effective date of this ordinance, file with the lieutenant governor a
notice of impending boundary action that meets the requirements of section 67-1a-6.5(3) of
the Utah Code, and a copy of an approved final local entity plat.

B. As soon as practicable after the Lieutenant Governor’s issuance of a certificate of boundary
adjustment, submit to the Salt Lake County Recorder:

- The original notice of impending boundary action;

- The original certificate of boundary adjustment;

- The original approved final local entity plat; and

- Acertified copy of this ordinance approving the boundary adjustment
C. Send notice of the boundary adjustment to Murray City.

D. File with the Department of Health a certified copy of the ordinance approving the

boundary adjustment and a copy of the approved final local entity plat.

E. Send notice of the boundary adjustment to the local districts and utilities that service the

Proposed Annexed Area, including:
a. the Unified Police Department;
b. the Unified Fire Authority; |
c. South Valley Water District;
d. South Valley Sewer District; and
e. Rocky Mountain Power

Section 3. Effective Date of Boundary Adjustment. If the Lieutenant Governor issues a
certificate of boundary adjustment by April 30, 2017, and the remaining above requirements are met
by July 1, 2017, the boundary adjustment shall take effect July 1, 2017. All notices as required by
statute shall state the effective date of the boundary adjustment.

Section 4. Effective Date of this Ordinance. This Ordinance shall take effect immediately
once both the City Council and the Murray City Council have adopted an ordinance approving the
proposed boundary adjustment.

APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 18" day of April, 2017.

JoAnn B. Seghini, Mayor
ATTEST:
Rori L. Andreason, MMC
City Recorder
Voting by the City Council “Aye” “Nay”
Stephen Brown
Paul Glover
Quinn Sperry _
Paul Hunt
Wayne Sharp

EXHIBIT “A”
Beginning at a point on the section line, said point being South 0°18’00” West
594.00 feet along said section line from the East Quarter Corner of Section 23,
Township 2 South, Range | West, Salt Lake Base and Meridian, and running; thence
South 0°18°00” West 718.26 feet along said section line to the extension of the north
line of River Walk at Bingham Junction; thence South 89°28’44” West 1650.15 feet
to and along the north line of said River Walk at Bingham Junction; thence North
0°18°00” East 733.26 feet; thence East 1650.00 feet to the point of beginning.
Contains 1,197,488 square feet. 27.49 acres.
