ORDINANCE NO. 2017 O-04
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 17-7-8 (TOD), CREATING CHAPTER
17-7-17 (TOD OVERLAY) OF THE MIDVALE CITY MUNICIPAL CODE AND
AMENDING THE OFFICIAL ZONING MAP OF MIDVALE CITY; ALSO
PROVIDING A SAVING CLAUSE AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE FOR THE
ORDINANCE.

WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 10-6-12 Utah Code Annotated 1953 as amended, the
City has authority to adopt and amend a zoning plan which divides the City into zoning districts
and within those districts to regulate the erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, and
uses of buildings and structures and the uses of land; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah, find it appropriate to amend and
adopt such ordinances to more adequately address the transition between single family
residential developments and the higher intensity developments allowed in the TOD zone; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on February 08, 2017 to
review the request and has made recommendations thereon to the City Council; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah, held a public hearing regarding the
amendment of Chapter 17-7-8, the addition of Chapter 17-7-17 of the Midvale City Municipal
Code and related zoning map amendments on March 21, 2017, and has taken into consideration
citizen testimony, and planning and demographic data; and |

WHEREAS, the amendments will be appropriate, in that it will promote the health and
general welfare of the City, it will be compatible with the best interests of the neighborhoods
involved and it will be sensitive to the needs of the City as a whole.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah
as follows:

Section 1. The Municipal Code which sets forth the laws and policies within Midvale
City, is hereby amended as follows:

See Attachment “A”

Section 2. If any part of this ordinance or the applications thereof to any person or
circumstances shall, for any reason, be adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
unconstitutional or invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair or invalidate the remainder of
this ordinance or the application thereof to other persons and circumstances, but shall be
confined to its operation to the section, subdivision, sentence or part of the section and the
persons and circumstances directly involved in the controversy in which such judgment shall
have been rendered. It is hereby declared to be the intent of the City Council that this section
would have been adopted if such invalid section, provisions, subdivision, sentence or part of a

section or application had not been included.
Section 3. This ordinance shall be effective upon date of first publication.
PASSED AND APPROVED this Arr day of Ly 21) g OL.
O. Seghini, Mayor
ATTEST:
av STAp
Rori Andreason, C SF FsconPoraren}, S,
City Recorder =f EK
a % JULY 1,199 FF yw
Date of first publication Af cL G N) tT] ae y

Chapter 17-7-8
TRANSIT-ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT ZONE (TOD)

Sections:

17-7-8.1 Purpose.

17-7-8.2 Uses.

17-7-8.3 Single family residential lot development standards.

17-7-8.4 Medium and high density residential development standards.

17-7-8.5 Retail, office and mixed-use development standards.

17-7-8.6 Retail, office and mixed-use architectural standards.

17-7-8.7 Required landscaping.

17-7-8.8 Parking.

17-7-8.9 Utilities.

17-7-8.10 Signs.

17-7-8.11 Conditional use standards of review.

17-7-8.12 Live/work units.

17-7-8.13  Itinerant merchants.

17-7-8.14 Related provisions.
1727-81 PU pO ee nn
The purpose of this chapter is to provide standards for the development of land parcels within the transit-
oriented development (TOD) zone. Development in this zone is intended to provide for traditionally suburban
development, as a transition to the more urban development pattern allowed under the separate Transit
Oriented Development Zone Overlay (TODO) and to:
A. Allow for and encourage high-quality transit-oriented development characterized by a mix of commercial
and residential uses;
B. Revitalize areas proximate to TRAX and transit stations;
C. Encourage ground level retail uses that open directly onto sidewalks adjacent to public streets, and upper
floor office and residential uses;
D. Allow a mix of uses and development that are compatible with adjacent residential neighborhoods;

1

E. Require coordinated, thematic landscaping to provide a distinctive visual quality to the area;
F. Require pedestrian connections within and among developments and between adjacent neighborhoods;
G. Manage parking and vehicular access utilizing shared parking and driveway access, with on-street parking
and parking located behind buildings or in the interior of the block; and
H. Encourage, through design, configuration, and mix of buildings and activities, a pedestrian-oriented
environment and provide settings for social interaction and active community life with wide sidewalks, focal
points, street trees and street furniture.
(Ord. 10/21/20080-8 § 1 (part), 2008: Ord. 10/16/20070-15 § 1 (part), 2007: Ord. 11-20-2001 § 2 (part), 2001)
ATT BUSS csi
If a use is not specifically designated, it is prohibited.
Table 17-7-8.2
Uses
Business
Type Allowed | Administrative | Conditional | License
Accessory Apartment (single family residential lot
subdivision only)
Accessory Building—Occupied, Unoccupied (single
family residential lot subdivision only)
Alcoholic Beverage
Class A License X X
Class B License X X
Class C License X xX
Restaurant X X
Package Agency X
Private Club X X X
2

Table 17-7-8.2
Uses
a ee
Type Allowed | Administrative | Conditional | License
suicimrsoe tx | |x
frimarosos | LT |
Assisted Living
s 1/2 acre X
> 1/2 acre
ee
odaratreavetim | x | |x
Child Care
Center: < 6 children X
Facility: 2 7 children X
conmarciineparsevess | x | |x
Dwellings
Single Family (single family residential subdivision only)
Medium and High Density Residential Developments Xx
(single family attached, single family detached, multi
family)
fnornmentcener | | |x
Fences
<7' X
>7'
3

Table 17-7-8.2
Uses
a ee
Type Allowed | Administrative | Conditional | License
Financial Institution
W/o Drive Up Window xX |
W/ Drive Up Window X
poor Tk
fomecoapatn tx ||
moomoo
Itinerant Merchant
Vending Carts X
Seasonal Produce Stands X
tvemonunts | |
ontecwestone | x | ||
ee ee
moose | xk x
Municipal Facilities
Parks
Public Safety Facility
Public Utilities
Major
Minor
Recreational Facilities
Trails
4

Table 17-7-8.2
Uses
a ee
Type Allowed | Administrative | Conditional | License
Office
General x x
Intensive x
owdowonng | |e fT
Parking Lot
Commercial X x
Personal
presdsingtanscanne | x | ||
resesinguiningiuson) |x | ||
reswimie | we |||
posdingsmewes | x | |
recwinue te ||
osirbicracites || Tk | x
adore || x
Recreation Facility
Commercial X
Private
Religious/Educational Institution
Permanent Xx
Temporary
resaetwooiveunvinow |x | | |x
5

Table 17-7-8.2
Uses
Business
Type Allowed | Administrative | Conditional | License
Retail and Service Commercial
W/o Drive Up Window xX
W/ Drive Up Window X
24-hour use X
Transportation Facility
Major X
Minor X
(Ord. 5/5/20090-8 § 1 (Att. A) (part), 2009: Ord. 10/21/20080-8 § 1 (part), 2008: Ord. 10/16/20070-15 § 1
(part), 2007: Ord. 8/10/20040-25 § 1(7) (part), 2004: Ord. 11-20-2001 § 2 (part), 2001)
17-7-8.3 Single family residential lot development standards. mann
The following development standards apply to all single family detached residential lot subdivisions in the
residential land use areas. These are traditional single family residential lots that do not require additional open
space and common areas within the development.
A. Lot Standards. Minimum area: The minimum lot area is three thousand five hundred square feet, subject to
the following regulations:
1. Lot Width. The minimum lot width is forty-five feet, measured at the front setback line.
2. Lot Frontage. The minimum lot frontage is forty-five feet, unless the proposed lot is on the curve of a
cul-de-sac, then the minimum lot frontage is thirty-five feet.
6

3. Lot Depth. The minimum lot depth is seventy-five feet, unless the proposed lot width is at least sixty-
seven feet, then the minimum lot depth shall be sixty-seven feet. Corner lots must meet the minimum lot
depth from both street frontages.
B. Setbacks. The minimum setbacks for primary structures in single family detached residential lot
subdivisions are as follows:
1. Front. The minimum front yard setback is twenty feet.
a. Corner Lot Rule. Corner lots have two front yards.
b. Exceptions. The following exceptions apply to all front yard setbacks in the zone:
i. Front Porch. An open, front entry porch may encroach eight feet into the front yard
setback.
ii. Projections. Sills, cornices, chimneys, flues, eaves and ornamental features may project
into the front yard up to two and one-half feet.
iii. Impervious Surfaces. A driveway with a width of twenty feet or forty percent of the lot
frontage, whichever is greater, and a sidewalk of up to five feet in width from the driveway
or street to the front door. The driveway may extend an additional ten feet in width
behind the sidewalk.
2. Side. The minimum side yard setback is five feet, subject to the following exceptions:
a. Projections. Sills, cornices, chimneys, flues, eaves and ornamental features may project into
the side yard up to two and one-half feet. If the front porch wraps around the structure, it may
project into the side yard up to two feet.
b. Stairs and Landings. Outside stairways and landings required by building code for exterior
doorways may project into the side yard up to three feet.
3. Rear. The minimum rear yard setback is fifteen feet, subject to the following exceptions:
a. Corner Lot Rule. On corner lots there is no rear yard.
7

b. Projections. Sills, cornices, chimneys, flues, eaves and ornamental features may project into
the rear yard up to two and one-half feet.
c. Stairs and Landings. Outside stairways and landings required by building code for exterior
doorways may project into the rear yard up to three feet.
C. Building Orientation and Scale. Residential and accessory structures shall be oriented and scaled as
follows:
1. Dwellings shall be serviced by a local street, an access road or drive, or an alley and shall not gain
access from a collector or arterial street.
2. Individual lots, buildings and units shall be arranged and situated to relate to surrounding properties,
to improve the view from buildings and to minimize road area.
3. Individual lots and buildings shall be designed to minimize pedestrian and automobile conflict while
providing pedestrians direct access to a sidewalk or trail.
4. Massing should be divided into rhythmic blocks to bring the design of the unit much closer to the
human scale and to create a pedestrian-friendly atmosphere.
5. Building design and orientation should consider exposure to sunlight to avoid energy inefficiencies.
D. Build-to Line. The front yard setback is the build-to line. At least fifty percent of the front elevation must be
built within three feet of the build-to line. This provision does not apply to the development of cul-de-sac lots.
E. Height. The maximum height for a structure is twenty-eight feet to the midpoint for a sloping roof and
twenty-five feet to the cornice for flat roofs.
F. Stories. All buildings must be from one to two and one-half stories.
G. Parking/Driveway.

1. Each lot shall provide two parking spaces for personal automobiles in a driveway, garage or carport, or
in the side or rear yard of the property. The driveway shall be paved with concrete or asphalt and shall
have a maximum width of twenty feet, or forty percent of the lot frontage, whichever is greater. This
measurement shall be taken at the drive approach and sidewalk. The paved driveway may extend an
additional ten feet in width behind the sidewalk. Parking in the side or rear yard shall be improved with

8

concrete, asphalt, concrete pavers or gravel. Parking areas surfaced with either concrete pavers or
gravel must be maintained to ensure no weeds grow in these areas. With the exception of the
driveway and approved side yard parking, no other portion of the front or side yards shall be surfaced
or used for parking. At no time shall parking occur on any landscaped area.
2. Storage of individual recreational vehicles (RVs), travel trailers, boat trailers and utility trailers shall
occur in an improved off-street location a minimum of five feet behind the sidewalk. No portion of the
RV or trailer, or anything attached to the RV or trailer, shall extend closer than five feet to the sidewalk.
This includes, but is not limited to, hitches. Parking in the side or rear yard shall be improved with
concrete, asphalt, concrete pavers or gravel. Parking areas surfaced with either concrete pavers or
gravel must be maintained to ensure that no weeds grow in these areas. With the exception of the
driveway and approved side yard parking, no other portion of the front or side yards shall be surfaced
or used for parking. At no time shall parking occur on any landscaped area.
H. Accessory Structures (Unoccupied). New development of an accessory structure intended for storage and
not for human occupancy is an allowed use and shall meet the following development standards:
1. Proximity. An accessory structure must be located no less than six feet from the main building.
2. Location. The accessory structure must be located in either the rear or side yard.
3. Setbacks. The accessory structure, including eaves, must be a minimum of two feet from the rear
and side lot lines. All construction must be done in accordance with the building code.
4. Height. Accessory structure height may not exceed twenty feet to the midpoint for a sloped roof and
sixteen feet to the cornice for a flat roof.
5. Stories. An accessory structure may range from one to one and one-half stories except that an
accessory structure may not exceed the height of the main structure.
6. Building Area. The maximum area of an unoccupied accessory structure is the greater of five
hundred square feet or thirteen percent of the lot area.
7. Utilities. An accessory structure may not have a separate electrical service, gas service, sewer
service or water service.
8. Maintenance. It is the responsibility of the property owner to ensure the setback area between the
accessory structure and the property line remains free of weeds, junk and debris.
9

I. Accessory Structure (Occupied). New development of an accessory structure intended for human
occupancy is a conditional use and shall meet the following development standards:
1. Lot Size. The accessory structure must be located on a lot with at least five thousand square feet.
2. Proximity. The accessory structure must be located no less than six feet from the main building.
3. Setbacks. The accessory structure must be located in either the rear or side yard, with no less than
a five-foot setback from the rear and side lot lines.
4. Height. The accessory structure height may not exceed twenty-four feet to the midpoint for a sloped
roof and twenty feet to the cornice for a flat roof.
5. Stories. An accessory structure may range from one to two stories except that an accessory
structure may not exceed the height of the main structure.
6. Building Area. The maximum area of an accessory structure is the greater of nine hundred square
feet or thirteen percent of the lot area. No more than six hundred square feet of the accessory structure
shall be used for human occupancy.
7. Architecture. The materials, architectural style and pitch of primary and secondary roofs shall match
those found on the primary structure.
J. Architectural Requirements.
1. Front Porches. Front porches shall be provided on all dwelling units, or as otherwise approved by
the planning commission through specific design review. Porches shall be unenclosed, roofed structures
attached to the dwelling structure. Porches shall be defined by a railing, wall, columns or similar
architectural features, provided accessibility requirements are met. Porches are encouraged to reflect
the design of traditional porches found in older neighborhoods. Railings and porch supports shall be
composed of relatively substantial members, preferably wood, metal and/or masonry or other materials
that complement the design. Porches may encroach eight feet into the front yard setback and two feet
into the side yard setback. All construction must be done in accordance with the building code.
3. Colors, Materials, Roofs, Openings.
10

a. Building/Retaining Walls. No more than three materials shall be used for the primary wall
surfaces on a building. Exterior finish shall be of traditional, time- and weather-tested techniques.
Retaining walls shall be of materials complementary to the building’s materials.
b. Colors. Without limiting the use of color, exterior walls shall be subdued in color and not
reflective. Intense colors should be used as accent only.
c. Roofs. All the roofs and dormer roofs of a building shall be constructed of the same material.
Slopes of roofs shall be of equal pitch if a gable or hip roof is employed. All metal roofs must be of
a subdued color. Painted roof shingles are prohibited.
d. Openings. The following standards apply to openings of all structures:

i. Entry Doors. Main entry door must face the front yard or, if located on the building side,

must be placed within three feet of the front facade. Main entry door must be covered by a

roof and must be a primary element of the front of the structure.

ii. Windows. Bay windows shall have from three to five sides.

K. Fences, Hedges and Walls. The following standards apply to new development of fences, hedges and
walls:
1. Required Setbacks. A fence, hedge, wall, column, pier, post, or any similar structure or any
combination of such structures is permitted in the required setback if it meets the following conditions:
a. All property lines are located in order to determine that no fence, hedge, or wall extends
beyond or across a property line. A fence, hedge, or wall may cross a property line if an agreement
with the abutting property owner is obtained;
b. Any fence, hedge or wall placed within ten feet of a driveway may not exceed three feet in
height if a sight obscuring solid material is used, such as wood, vinyl, etc.; and four feet if
nonobscuring open materials are used, such as wrought iron, picket with gaps no less than width
of slat, etc., for the first ten feet behind the sidewalk; and
c. No barbed wire or other sharp, pointed, or electrically charged fence may be erected or
maintained, except a temporary fence on a construction site to protect the property during the
a1.

period of construction may be topped with barbed wire where the barbed wire is not less than eight
feet above the ground and does not extend more than two feet above the temporary fence.

d. All fences shall be constructed of quality materials that are specifically manufactured for
fencing and shall not be constructed with any material that was originally made for other intentions.
Unless specifically being used for a bona fide agricultural use, perimeter fencing within a
residential area shall not be constructed from any material that was manufactured for an
agricultural use such as chicken wire, deer fencing, hog wire, wire strands, t-stakes, or grape
stakes.

e. All fences shall be maintained in a good condition by the property owner including compliance
with the following standards:

1) The fence must be free of damage, breaks or missing components or parts.

2) Areas of the fence that are leaning more than twenty degrees from vertical, buckling,
sagging or deteriorating must be repaired or replaced with materials and color similar to
its original construction.

3) All metal style fences shall be treated in a manner to prevent rust.

4) Plant materials growing on fences within clear view areas, i.e., within ten feet of a
driveway near a sidewalk (see required setbacks above) or within the clear view
triangle area, shall be maintained at a maximum height of three feet.

2. Height. No fence or wall may exceed seven feet in height, four feet in height in the front yard
setback, nor three feet in the clear view triangle, measured as follows:
a. In arequired yard abutting a street, the total effective height above the finished grade
measured on the side nearest the street;
b. In any other required yard, the total effective height above the finished grade measured on the
side nearest the abutting property;
c. Ona property line, measured from the finished grade of either side when the abutting property
owners are in agreement; and
12

d. Atemporary fence on a construction site may be as high as required to protect the property
during the period of construction.
e. Fencing up to eight feet in height may be allowed in the side(s) or rear yard provided one of
the following requirements are met:
i. The side(s) or rear property is adjacent to a freeway system or arterial or collector
roadway.
ii. Buffering between commercial/industrial uses and residential uses or between single
family and multi-family residential uses.
iii. Demonstration of safety and/or security matters.
Fencing eight feet in height shall comply with the following conditions:
i. | The proposed fence shall be reasonably compatible with respect to height from adjacent
fences and shall transition consistently from one segment of fence to another.
ii. | The proposed fence shall be reasonably compatible with respect to materials from
adjacent fences and shall include materials and colors that are similar.
iii. A building permit shall be obtained from the City and construction of fences and retaining
walls must meet applicable requirements of the building code.
f. Corner lots may have a fence up to seven feet in height, enclosing the yard area opposite one
of the side yards and along the street frontage, provided the fence does not extend into the
remaining front yard setback. Any fence, hedge, or wall placed within ten feet of a driveway may
not exceed three feet in height for sight obscuring solid material or four feet in height for
nonobscuring open materials for the first ten feet behind the sidewalk.
3. Athletic Facilities. Fencing around athletic facilities, including, without limitation, tennis courts, may
be fourteen feet in height so long as all portions above six feet in height are constructed with at least fifty
percent non-opaque materials.
4. Conformance with This Section. No person shall construct, alter, or maintain a fence, hedge, wall,
column, pier, post, or any similar structure or any combination of such structures except in conformance
with all of the requirements of this section.
13
