                                        oRDTNANCE NO. 2017-0-03

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (UNOCCUPIED)
STANDARDS FOR CORNER LOTS WITHIN SINGLE-T'AMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONES;
ALSO PROVIDING A SAVING CLAUSE AND AN EFT'ECTIYE DATE F'OR THE
ORDINAI\ICE.

         WHEREAS, pursuant to Sections l0-9a-501 through l0-9a-503 Utah State Code, the City has
the authority to make and amend any regulation of or within the zoning district or any other provision of
the land use ordinance to promote the prosperity, improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort,
convenience, and aesthetics of the municipality; and

        WHEREAS, Midvale City was made aware of additional uses not contemplated when the Zoning
Ordinance was originally adopted with regard to comer lot development; and

        WHEREAS, Midvale City recognized an additional opportunity to provide a reasonable use of
individual properties for single-family detached homes within stable, residential neighborhoods and to
further provide safety and security ofindividual properties and their uses; and

        WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on December 14,2016,to review
the proposed amendment regarding development standards for accessory structures on corner lots and has
forwarded a recommendation on such to the City Council; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on March 7,2017,
which meeting was preceded by notice through publication in the Salt Lake Tribune and Deseret News on
February 21,2017; and,

         WHEREAS, the City Council has taken into consideration testimony citizen testimony, planning
and building analysis, and the Planning Commission's recommendation, and has determined that this texi
amendment is appropriate and within the best interests of the City as a whole in protecting and promoting
the health, safety, welfare and aesthetic quality of Midvale City.

           NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah as
follows:

       Section 1. The following chapters and sections of the Midvale Municipal Code are hereby
amended as included in the attachment to this document.

          Section 2. lf any part of this ordinance or the applications thereof to any person or circumstances
shall, for any reison, be adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or invalid,
such judgement shall not affect, impair or invalidate the remainder of this ordinance or the application
thereof to other persons and circumstances, but shall be confined to its operation to this section,
subdivision, sentence or part of the section and the persons and circumstances directly involved in the
controversy in which such judgment shall have been rendered. It is hereby declared to be the intent of the
City Council that this section would have been adopted if such invalid section, provisions, subdivision,
sentence or part ofa section or application had not been included.

           Section 3. This ordinance shall be effective upon publication of a summary thereof.
                                      PAssED AND AppRovED tnisT& aay   ot (WCLI ,2017.




ATTEST:




Date offirst publication: fl
                               lf, rch r \ >nrr
                                                          ffi     w

Voting by City Council             "Aye"          "Nay"

        Quinn Sperry                \/
        Stephen Brown               a--'

        Paul Glover                 r''
        Paul Hunt                   t/
        Wayne Sharp                  t/




                                                                  Ordinance No. 20 I 7-0-03
                            ATTACHMENT A . ACCESSORY STRUCTURES
                                                                                                 Text Additions
                                                                                                 Text Deletiens


                                           Chapter 17-7-1
                               SINGLE FAMTLY RESTDENTTAL ZONE (SF-l)

Sections:


    17-7-1.1 Purpose.
    17-7-1.2 Use table.
    17-7-1.3 Lotstandards.
    '17-7-1.4 Development standards.
    17-7-1.5 Neighborhood compatibility.
    17-7-1.6 Fences, hedges and walls.
    '17-7-1.7 Landscaping.
    17-7-1.8 Parking.
   17-7-1.9 Accessory structures (unoccupied).
   17-7-1.10 Master planned development.
   17-7-1.11 Conditional use standards of review.
   17-7-1.12 Home occupation standards.
   17-7-1.13 Signs.
   17-7-1.14 Duplex (two-family) overlay (OD) zone.
   17-7-1.15 Agricultural overlay zone.
   '17-7-1.16 Related provisions.
   17-7-1.17 Camping.


-17--7:-1:,9-A999:9-9Iygtf !rg19f "e-.s_(-qt-no-9-9t{pied),
New development of an accessory structure intended for storage and not for human occupancy is an allowed

use and shall meet the following development standards:


A. Proximity. An accessory structure must be located no less than six feet from the main building.

B. Location. The accessory structure must be located in either the rear or side yard.
provided in subsec{ion lbelow.




                                                                       Attach ment A - Accessory Structu res
C. Setbacks. The accessory structure, including eaves, must be a minimum of two feet from the rear and side
lot lines. All construction must be done in accordance with the building code.


D. Height. Accessory structure height may not exceed twenty feet to the midpoint for a sloped roof and
sixteen feet to the cornice for a flat roof.


E. Stories. An accessory structure may range from one to one and one-half stories.

F. Building Area. The maximum area of an accessory structure is the larger of nine hundred square feet or
thirteen percent of the lot area.


G. Utilities. An accessory structure may not have a separate electrical service, gas service, sewer service or
water service.


H. Maintenance. lt is the responsibility of the property owner to ensure the setback area between the
accessory structure and the property line remains free of weeds, junk and debris.


l.        Comer lot exception. Unoccupied accessory structures may be allowed where one front yard functions as

a side yard. On these lots, accessory structures shall be permitted to encroach within the required front yard

subject to the following requirements:


     i.      The accessory structure may be allowed within one front yard; opposite of the front yard associated

             with the structural front entrance location.


     ii.     The accessory structure, including eaves, must be a minimum of two feet from all property lines,

             subject to the following:


                 a. The accessory structure must be located behind a minimum six-foot, solid, sight-obscuring
                      fence and the initial height shall correlate with the adjacent fencing height. Said fence shall

                      comply with all fencing requirements in Section 17-7-'1.6.


                 b. lf a non-sight obscuring fence is existing, proposed to be constructed, or if no fencing is
                      present; the accessory structure, including eaves, must be a minimum of eight feet from all

                      property lines and the initial height shatl not exceed eight feet.




                                                                                Attachment A - Accessory Structures
(Ord.5l4l2010O-3 S 1 (Att. A) (part), 2010: Ord.7111120060-10 g 1 (Exh. B) (part), 2006: Ord. 11-13-2001 2
                                                                                                        S
(part), 2001)




                                                                   Attachment A - Accessory Structures
                                           Chapter 17-7-2
                               S|NGLE FAMTLY RESIDENTIAL ZONE (SF-2)


   Sections

   17-7-2.1 Purpose.
   17-7-2.2 Use table.
   17-7-2.3 Lot standards.
   17-7-2.4 Development standards.
   17   -7-2.5 Neighborhood compatibility.
   17-7-2.6 Fences, hedges and walls.
   17-7-2.7 Landscaping.
   17-7-2.8 Parking.
   '17-7-2.9 Accessory structures (unoccupied).
   17-7-2.10 Master planned development.
   17-7-2.1'l Conditional use standards of review.
   17-7-2.12 Home occupation standards.
   17-7-2.13 Signs.
   17-7-2.14 Related provisions.
   17-7-2.15 Camping.




New development of an accessory structure intended for storage and not for human occupancy is an allowed

use and shall meet the following development standards:


A. Proximity. An accessory structure must be located no less than six feet from the main building.

B. Location. The accessory structure must be located in either the rear or side yard. Exception for corner lots
provided in subsection I below.


C. Setbacks. The accessory structure, including eaves, must be a minimum of two feet from the rear and side
lot lines. All construction must be done in accordance with the building code.


D. Height. Accessory structure height may not exceed twenty feet to the midpoint for a sloped roof and
sixteen feet to the cornice for a flat roof.


E. Stories. An accessory structure may range from one to one and one-half stories.
                                                                         Attach ment A - Accessory Structu res
F. Building Area. The maximum area of an accessory structure is the larger of nine hundred square feet or
thirteen percent of the lot area.


G. Utilities. An accessory structure may not have a separate electrical service, gas service, sewer service or
water service.


H. Maintenance. lt is the responsibility of the property owner to ensure the setback area between the
accessory structure and the property line remains free of weeds, junk and debris.


l.         Corner lot exception. Unoccupied accessory structures may be allowed where one front yard functions as

a side yard. On these lots, accessory structures shall be permitted to encroach within the required front yard

subject to the following requirements:


      i.      The accessory structure may be allowed within one front yard; opposite of the front yard associated

              with the structuralfront entrance location.


     ii.      The accessory structure, including eaves, must be a minimum of two feet from all property lines,

              subject to the following:


                  a. The accessory structure must be located behind a minimum six-foot, solid, sight-obscuring
                       fence and the initial height shall correlate with the adjacent fencing height. Said fence shall

                       comply with allfencing requirements in Section 17-7-2.6.


                  b. lf a non-sight obscuring fence is existing, proposed to be constructed, or if no fencing is
                       present; the accessory structure, including eaves, must be a minimum of eight feet from all

                       property lines and the initial height shall not exceed eight feet.


                  c. For every two feet the accessory structure is setback from the identified property line or fence
                       line, the accessory structure may extend an additional one foot in height, not to exceed a

                       maximum of twenty feet.


     iii.     The maximum area of the accessory structure shall be one hundred square feet.


  iv.         Allconstruction must be done in accordance with the building code.


     v.       The accessory structure must be located no less than six feet from the main building.




                                                                                 Attachment A - Accessory Structu res
(Ord. 5/4/2010O-3 S 1 (Att. A) (part), 2010: Ord. 7/11120060-10 S 1 (Exh. B) (part), 2000: Ord. 11-1&2001 S 2

(part), 2001)




                                                                      Attachment A - Accessory Structures
