                                 ORDINANCE NO. 2017.0.05


AI\ ORDINAIICE CLARIFYING THE SETBACK LA}IGUAGE AI\D CHAIIGING THE
REAR SETBACK REQUIREMENT IN THE STATE STREET COMMERCIAL ZONE
DISTRICT; ALSO PROYIDING A SAVING CLAUSE AI\D AII EFFECTIVE DATE
FOR THE ORDINANCE.

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Sections 10-9a-501 through 10-9a-503 Utah State Code, the
City has the authority to make and amend any regulation of or within the zoning district or any
other provision of the land use ordinance to promote the prosperity, improve the morals, peace
and good order, comfort, convenience, and aesthetics of the municipality; and

      WHEREAS, on January 2,2002, the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance (Title 17 of the
Midvale Municipal Code) became effective and may be subject to amendments from time to
time; and

        WHEREAS, since this effective date, Midvale City has found a number of areas that
require amendments to the text of the ordinance in order to correct effors and omissions, clari$
the intent of the language, and/or include new provisions to further the vision of the CiW; and

       WHEREAS, the City determined a need to clarifu the language for setbacks as well as
change the rear setback requirement in the State Street Commercial Zone District; and

        WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on February 22,2017 to
review the proposed text amendment language regarding this issue, with such meeting being
preceded by notice through publication in the Salt Lake Tribune and Deseret News on February
8,2017, and the Planning Commission forwarded a recommendation with specific language and
formatting to the City Council on February 22,2017; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on March 21,
2017,which meeting was preceded by notice through publication in the Salt Lake Tribune and
Deseret News on March 7 ,2017; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah, after taking into consideration
citizen testimony, planning analysis, and the Planning Commission recommendation, finds it is
appropriate and within the best interests of the City to make these clarifications and changes in
the Midvale Municipal Code.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah
as follows:

      Section   l.
                 The following chapter and sections of the Midvale Municipal Code are hereby
amended as included in ATTACHMENT A of this document.

        Section 2. If any part of this ordinance or the applications thereof to any person or
circumstances shall, for any reason, be adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
unconstitutional or invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair or invalidate the remainder of
this ordinance or the application thereof to other persons and circumstances, but shall be
confined to its operation to the section, subdivision, sentence or part of the section and the
persons and circumstances directly involved in the controversy in which such judgment shall
have been rendered. [t is hereby declared to be the intent of the City Council that this section
would have been adopted if such invalid section, provisions, subdivision, sentence or part of a
section or application had not been included.

        Section 3. This ordinance shall be effective upon publication of a summary thereof.

        PASSED AND APPROVED ttris"lf!(d ay             ot (Y)aftlr         ,2017.




ATTEST:

                                                       dp:*\%\


Date of first publicatio   n+fui-L/TM1
Voting by City Council        "Aye"           'oNay"
       Stephen Brown             lr/
       Paul Glover               \.-
       Paul Hunt
        Wayne Sharp              t/
        Quinn Sperr,,             L/
                                          ATTACHMENT A
                                        (Ordinance No. 2017-0-05)

                                                                                               Text Additions
                                                                                               Text Deletiens

                                            Ghapter 17-7-7
                                       STATE STREET ZONE (SSC)



1.7.:.7..:..7..,*..1-oj-en-q.q..e.yg!.9-pr.9n!.9knde.tCs..

The following development standards apply to all new development in the zone:


A. Setbacks. New development shall comply with the following setbacks:

       1. Front. The minimum front yard setback is fifteen feet, which shall consist of a ten-foot wide sidewalk,
      a five-foot park strip, and tree wells, subject to the following exceptions:


             a. Corner Lot Rule. Corner lots have two front yards, with a twenty-five foot setback.

             b. Projections. Skylights, sills, cornices, chimneys, flues and ornamental features may project
             into the front yard up to two and one-half feet. Eaves and awnings may project into the front yard

             up to eight feet so long as the eaves or awnings are at least eight feet above ground.




       and landscape buffers.


       23. Rear.
       and landscape bufiers. The rear yard setbaek is twenty feet; subjeet te the fellewing exeeptiens:


             a, Prejeetiens, Skylights' sills; eerniees; ehimneys; flues; eaves; and ernamental features may
             pre




             three-fee+




B. Build-To Line.   .




                                                             3
