ORDINANCE NO. 2017-O-15

AN ORDINANCE MODIFYING THE REQUIRED FRONT YARD SETBACK
SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS FOR RESIDENTIAL PROJECTS IN THE
TRANSIT ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT ZONE AND THE’ TRANSIT
ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT OVERLAY ZONE (SECTIONS 17-7-8.4 (A)(1)
AND 17-7-17.3 (A)(1) OF THE MIDVALE MUNICIPAL CODE); ALSO,
PROVIDING A SAVING CLAUSE AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE FOR THE
ORDINANCE.

WHEREAS, pursuant to Sections 10-9a-501 through 10-9a-503 Utah State Code,
Midvale City (the “City”) has the authority to make and amend any regulation of or
within zoning districts or any other provision of the land use ordinance to promote the
prosperity, improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, convenience, and
aesthetics of the municipality; and

WHEREAS, on January 2, 2002, the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance (Title 17 of
the Midvale Municipal Code) became effective and may be subject to amendments from
time to time; and

WHEREAS, since this effective date, the City has found a number of areas
requiring amendments to the text of the ordinance in order to correct errors and
omissions, clarify the intent of the language, protect its citizens, and/or include new
provisions to further the vision of the City; and

WHEREAS, the City has the desire to create a better pedestrian environment for
residential projects in the Transit Oriented Development Zone and Transit Oriented
Development Overlay Zone; and

WHEREAS, the City has found the current development standards addressing
this improvement can be improved; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on September 13,
2017 to review the proposed text amendment language regarding this issue, with such
meeting being preceded by notice through publication in the Salt Lake Tribune and
Deseret News on August 30, 2017, and the Planning Commission forwarded a
recommendation with specific language and formatting to the City Council on this same
date; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on
October 3, 2017, which meeting was preceded by notice through publication in the Salt
Lake Tribune and Deseret News on September 19, 2017; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah, after taking into

1

consideration citizen testimony, planning analysis, and the Planning Commission
recommendation, finds it is appropriate and within the best interests of the City to make
this change in the Midvale Municipal Code.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale
City, Utah as follows: :

Section 1. Sections 17-17-8.4 (A)(1) and 17-17-17.3 (A)(1) of the Midvale
Municipal Code is hereby amended as specifically shown below.

Text Additions

Fext Deletions

A. Setbacks. New development shall comply with the following setbacks:

1. Front. The minimum front yard setback is fifteen feet, which shall
include a sidewalk-oHtern-feetinwidth-and-a-five-foot park strip adjacent to
the curb, which shall incorporate tree wells, street furniture and planter
boxes; a sidewalk of five to six feet (at the discretion of the Planning
Commission); and four to five feet of landscaping up to the foundation of the
residential structure. With the input from the City Engineer, modification to
the sidewalk and park strip standard may be allowed to provide an
appropriate tie-in to an adjacent neighborhood sidewalk. The front yard
setback is measured from the back of curb.

Section 2. If any part of this ordinance or the applications thereof to any person
or circumstances shall, for any reason, be adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction
to be unconstitutional or invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair or invalidate the
remainder of this ordinance or the application thereof to other persons and circumstances,
but shall be confined to its operation to the section, subdivision, sentence or part of the
section and the persons and circumstances directly involved in the controversy in which
such judgment shall have been rendered. It is hereby declared to be the intent of the City
Council that this section would have been adopted if such invalid section, provisions,
subdivision, sentence or part of a section or application had not been included.

Section 3. This ordinance shall be effective upon publication of a summary
thereof.

PASSED AND APPROVED this ; 4 day of (Ocropez . 2017.

JoAnn B. Seghini, Mayor
2

ATTEST: fg a ~c |
GS E
=] ge f &
. SQ wwe” gy
Cp, em D |
Rori Andreason, MM RPOREIE
City Recorder :
Date of first publication Oyo@ee % Jor
Voting by City Council “Aye” “Nay”
Stephen Brown yi
Paul Glover eal
Paul Hunt —
Wayne Sharp ae
Quinn Sperry Lean
|
. 3
|
