ORDINANCE NO. 2018-O0-03
AN ORDINANCE CLARIFYING THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE “SINGLE
FAMILY SETBACK” AND “RESIDENTIAL BUFFER’ STANDARDS IN THE
TRANSIT ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT ZONE AND THE _ TRANSIT
ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT OVERLAY ZONE (SECTIONS 17-7-8.4(A)(4), 17-
7-8.5(B)(4), 17-7-8.7(C), 17-7-17.3(A)(4), 17-7-17.4(B)(4), AND 17-7-17.6 (C) OF
THE MIDVALE MUNICIPAL CODE); ALSO, PROVIDING A SAVING CLAUSE
AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE FOR THE ORDINANCE.

WHEREAS, pursuant to Sections 10-9a-501 through 10-9a-503 Utah State Code,
Midvale City (the “City”) has the authority to make and amend any regulation of or
within zoning districts or any other provision of the land use ordinance to promote the
prosperity, improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, convenience, and
aesthetics of the municipality; and

WHEREAS, on January 2, 2002, the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance (Title 17 of
the Midvale Municipal Code) became effective and may be subject to amendments from
time to time; and

WHEREAS, since this effective date, the City has found areas requiring
amendments to the text of the ordinance to correct errors and omissions, clarify the intent
of the language, protect its citizens, and/or include new provisions to further the vision of
the City; and

WHEREAS, the City has the desire to clarify the language for the “single family
setback” and “residential buffer” standards in the Transit Oriented Development Zone
and Transit Oriented Development Overlay Zone to ensure consistency in the
implementation and understanding of these standards; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on February 14,
2018 to review the proposed clarifying text amendment language regarding this issue,
with such meeting being preceded by notice through publication in the Salt Lake Tribune
and Deseret News on January 31, 2018, and the Planning Commission forwarded a
recommendation with specific language and formatting to the City Council on this same
date; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on
March 6, 2018, which meeting was preceded by notice through publication in the Salt
Lake Tribune and Deseret News on February 20, 2018; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah, after taking into
consideration citizen testimony, planning analysis, and the Planning Commission

1

recommendation, finds it is appropriate and within the best interests of the City to make |
this change in the Midvale Municipal Code.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale
City, Utah as follows: :
Section 1. The following chapter and sections of the Midvale Municipal Code are
hereby amended as included in ATTACHMENT A of this document.
Section 2. If any part of this ordinance or the applications thereof to any person
or circumstances shall, for any reason, be adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction
to be unconstitutional or invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair or invalidate the
remainder of this ordinance or the application thereof to other persons and circumstances,
but shall be confined to its operation to the section, subdivision, sentence or part of the
section and the persons and circumstances directly involved in the controversy in which :
such judgment shall have been rendered. It is hereby declared to be the intent of the City
Council that this section would have been adopted if such invalid section, provisions,
subdivision, sentence or part of a section or application had not been included.
Section 3. This ordinance shall be effective upon publication of a summary
thereof.
PASSED AND APPROVED this (JH day of {) ly (oh , 2018. |
HX M. Hale, Mayor :
TEST:
Rori Andreason, MMC ow SS TAre :
City Recorder thea gf Ra
SF pcORPORATEDY < :
Date of first publication: K auch! AXIS = _——— 5 Ed
* LN JULY 1,199 Fy
Voting by City Council “Aye” “Nay” Por ATE i)
Bryant Brown ~ ee
Dustin Gettel Vv
Paul Glover an a ee
Paul Hunt i
Quinn Sperry L _—_
2 :

ATTACHMENT A (Option 2)
Clarification for Measuring Single Family Setback & Implementation of Residential Buffer
TOD & TODO Zones
Text Additions
Text-Delatoas
TOD Zone
17-7-8.4 Medium and high density residential development standards.
The following development standards apply to all new single family attached, single family detached, and multi
family development in the zone, with the exception of single family detached residential lot subdivisions (see
Section 17-7-8.3):
A. Setbacks. New development shall comply with the following setbacks:
4. Single Family Setback. The minimum setback from the property line, when adjacent to a single
family residential zone, is fifteen feet, subject to the following exceptions: . Development is considered
adjacent when the development property directly abuts a single family residential zone or abuts a road
right-of-way, canal or rail line bordering a single family residential zone.
a. Three-story structures must be set back thirty-seven feet.
b. Projections. Sills, cornices, chimneys, flues, eaves, and ornamental features may project into
the setback up to two and one-half feet.
c. Stairs and Landings. Outside stairways and landings required by building code for exterior
doorways may project into the setback up to three feet.
B. Build-To Line. The front yard setback is the build-to line. At least fifty percent of the front elevation must be
built within three feet of the build-to line. The structure may be set back an additional fifteen feet to allow for the
inclusion of a courtyard or patio. When the front yard is also a required “single family setback”, the single family
setback is the build-to line.
17-7-8.5 Retail, office and mixed-use development standards. i csmsmnunmnnnnnn |
The following development standards apply to all new retail, office and mixed-use development in the zone:
B. Setbacks. New development shall comply with the following setbacks:
1

4. Single Family Setback. The minimum setback from the property line, when adjacent to a single
family residential zone, is fifteen feet, subject to the following exceptions: . Development is considered
adjacent when the development property directly abuts a single family residential zone or abuts a road
right-of-way, canal or rail line bordering a single family residential zone.
a. Three-story structures must be set back thirty-seven feet.
b. Projections. Sills, cornices, chimneys, flues, eaves, and ornamental features may project into
the setback up to two and one-half feet.
c. Stairs and Landings. Outside stairways and landings required by building code for exterior
doorways may project into the setback up to three feet.
C. Build-To Line. The front yard setback is the build-to line. At least fifty percent of the front elevation must be
built within three feet of the build-to line. The structure may be set back an additional fifteen feet to allow for the
inclusion of an outdoor dining area, courtyard, patio or other pedestrian-oriented use. When the front yard is
also a required “single family setback”, the single family setback is the build-to line.
A7-7-8.7 Required WAMSCapin ge smn
C. Residential Buffer. New development shall provide a minimum fifteen-foot landscaped buffer consisting of
large trees, shrubs, and a minimum seven-foot screening wall (up to eight feet if warranted and approved by
the planning commission). The screening wall shall be constructed of wood, metal, brick, masonry or other
permanent materials along all property boundaries adjacent to single family residential zones. Development
that abuts a roadway bordering a single family residential zone is exempt from this requirement.
2

Some |
ys: ant no pa :
* o> ‘ es! ; —. © ;
Cc
Oe I OT) a ell i
0 Wide Teh romege | |
| Mirren 1s Tandsc ape Tuller Zonc Tiicsdeniral Det cloprcnst E
Trans#-Onented Development }
A-— Large (Class 3) trees, 30’ on center (alternate with 8’ tall :
evergreens) i
B — Low shrub buffer |
C — Tall shrub zone (8’ — 10’ mature height)
TOD Zone Buffering Standard D - Screening wall as approved by Commission
TOD Overlay Zone
17-7-17.3 Medium and high density residential development standards. smn
The following development standards apply to all new medium and high density residential development:
A. Setbacks. New development shall comply with the following setbacks: i
4. Single Family Setback. The minimum setback from the property line, when adjacent to a single F
family residential zone, is fifteen feet, subject to the following exceptions. Development is considered
adjacent when the development property directly abuts a single family residential zone or abuts a road
right-of-way, canal or rail line bordering a single family residential zone.
a. Three-story structures must be set back thirty-seven feet; four-story structures must be set
back sixty-six feet; five-story structures must be set back eighty-three feet; six-story structures
must be set back one hundred feet; and seven-story structures must be set back one hundred
sixteen feet.

3

b. Projections. Sills, cornices, chimneys, flues, eaves, and ornamental features may project into
the setback up to two and one-half feet. :
c. Stairs and Landings. Outside stairways and landings required by building code for exterior '
doorways may project into the setback up to three feet.
B. Build-To Line. The front yard setback is the build-to line. At least fifty percent of the front elevation must be
built within three feet of the build-to line. The structure may be set back an additional fifteen feet to allow for the
inclusion of a courtyard or patio. When the front yard is also a required “single family setback”, the single family
setback is the build-to line.
17-7-17.4 Retail, office and mixed-use development standards. osssmmnnnnnnnnn
The following development standards apply to all new retail, office and mixed-use development in the zone:
B. Setbacks. New development shall comply with the following setbacks:
4. Single Family Setback. The minimum setback from the property line, when adjacent to a single
family residential zone, is fifteen feet, subject to the following exceptions: . Development is considered
adjacent when the development property directly abuts a single family residential zone or abuts a road
right-of-way, canal or rail line bordering a single family residential zone.
a. Three-story structures must be set back thirty-seven feet; four-story structures must be set .
back sixty-six feet; five-story structures must be set back eighty-three feet; six-story structures
must be set back one hundred feet; and seven-story structures must be set back one hundred
sixteen feet.
b. Projections. Sills, cornices, chimneys, flues, eaves, and ornamental features may project into
the setback up to two and one-half feet.
c. Stairs and Landings. Outside stairways and landings required by building code for exterior
doorways may project into the setback up to three feet.
C. Build-To Line. The front yard setback is the build-to line. At least fifty percent of the front elevation must be
built within three feet of the build-to line. Recessed plazas, courtyards and trellises are encouraged. The
structure may be set back an additional fifteen feet to allow for the inclusion of an outdoor dining area,
courtyard, patio or other pedestrian-oriented use. When the front yard is also a required “single family setback’,
the single family setback is the build-to line.
4

AT-T-A7.6 Required landscaping. ssn
C. Residential Buffer. New development shall provide a minimum fifteen-foot landscaped buffer consisting of
large trees, shrubs, and a minimum seven-foot screening wall (up to eight feet if warranted and approved by }
the planning commission). The screening wall shall be constructed of wood, metal, brick, masonry or other
permanent materials along all property boundaries adjacent to single family residential zones. Development :
that abuts a roadway bordering a single family residential zone is exempt from this requirement. [
(Fe \ i

é = E

¥ “” /

>. . “ py

es co Eiy Bs \ |

“ oD ay tue i

oes GENE Se? B

A 0” Za > a “4 3

4, o~ SY ua :

<I D :

pag, a>, | :

A332 SiS) eee) i

iran cape Bul one velopment i

Trans #-Orented Deve lopment :

A- Large (Class 3) trees, 30’ on center (alternate with 8’ tall

evergreens) i

B — Low shrub buffer

C - Tall shrub zone (8’ — 10’ mature height)

TOD Overlay Zone Buffering Standard D - Screening wall as approved by Commission :

5 i
