MIDVALE CITY
ORDINANCE NO. 2018-O-1
AN ORDINANCE CREATING MIDVALE MUNICIPAL CODE
CHAPTER 5.54 WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES.
WHEREAS, the City, as a trustee of the public, manages the rights-of-way within
the City subject to applicable law; and
WHEREAS, the City Council finds that the rights-of-way within the City:
1. Are critical to the travel and transport of persons and property in the business
and social life of the City;
2. Are intended for public uses and must be managed and controlled consistent
with that intent;
3. Can be partially occupied by the facilities of utilities and other public service
entities delivering utility and public services rendered for profit to the enhancement of the
health, welfare, and general economic well-being of the City and its citizens; and
4. Area unique and physically limited resource requiring proper management to
maximize the efficiency and to minimize the costs to the taxpayers of the foregoing uses
and to minimize the inconvenience to and negative effects upon the public from such
facilities construction, placement, relocation, and maintenance in the rights-of-way; and
WHEREAS, providers and infrastructure providers of personal wireless services
have requested permission to install wireless communication facilities within the City’s
rights-of-way; and
WHEREAS, the City Council finds the right to occupy portions of the rights-of-
way for limited times for the business of providing personal wireless services is a
valuable use of a unique public resource that has been acquired and is maintained at great
expense to the City and its taxpayers, and, therefore, the taxpayers of the City should
receive fair and reasonable compensation for use of the rights-of-way; and
WHEREAS, the City Council finds that while wireless communication facilities are
in part an extension of interstate commerce, their operations also involve rights-of-way,
municipal franchising, and vital business and community service, which are of local
concern; and

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that it is in the interests of its taxpayers and
citizens to promote the rapid development of wireless communication services, on a
nondiscriminatory basis, responsive to community and public interest, and to assure
availability for municipal, educational and community services; and

WHEREAS, The City Council finds that it is in the interests of the public to
franchise and to establish standards for franchising providers in a manner that:

1. Fairly and reasonably compensates the City on a competitively neutral and
nondiscriminatory basis as provided herein;

2. Encourages competition by establishing terms and conditions under which
providers may use the rights-of-way to serve the public;

3. Fully protects the public interests and the City from any harm that may flow
from such commercial use of rights-of-way;

4. Protects the police powers and rights-of-way management authority of the
City, in a manner consistent with federal and state law:

5. Otherwise protects the public interests in the development and use of the
City’s infrastructure;

6. Protects the public’s investment in improvements in the rights-of-way; and

7. Ensures that no barriers to entry of providers are created and that such
franchising is accomplished in a manner that does not prohibit or have the effect of
prohibiting personal wireless services, within the meaning of the Telecommunications
Act of 1996 (“Act”) (P.L. No. 96-104);

Now, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah
as follows:

Section 1. The City Council desires to adopt Midvale Municipal Code
Chapter 5.54 Wireless Communications Services as set forth in Exhibit A.

Section 2. This Ordinance shall be effective upon date of first publication.

PASSED AND APPROVED this | (7 day of nun 2018.

MI CITY ;
4ATE Of

Of Dy % By: he-

wy % Mayor Robert M. Hale
a é ad

~ 4* Ag

OM Se

\foonrotS

[SEAL] VOTING:
Paul Glover Yea_t~ Nay____
Quinn Sperry Yea. Nay
Paul Hunt Yea_, Nay___
Bryant Brown Yea_~ Nay___
Dustin Gettel Yea_— Nay___ :
ATTEST:
ig
YW YON
Rari L. Andreasoh, MMC
City Recorder
Published this Zo day oad 8.

Midvale Municipal Code Page 1/34
Chapter 5.54 WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SERVICES
Chapter 5.54
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SERVICES
Sections:
Article I. Declaration of Findings and Intent—Scope of Ordinance
5.54.010 Findings regarding rights-of-way.
5.54.020 Scope of ordinance.
5.54.030 Excluded activity.
Article II. Defined Terms |
5.54.040 Definitions.
Article III. Wireless Franchise Required
5.54.050 Nonexclusive wireless franchise.
5.54.060 Every provider must obtain.
5.54.070 Nature of grant.
5.54.080 Current providers.
5.54.090 Nature of wireless franchise.
5.54.100 Regulatory approval needed.
5.54.110 Term.
Article IV. Compensation and Other Payments
5.54.120 Compensation.
5.54.130 Timing.
5.54.140 Fee statement and certification.
5.54.150 Future costs.
5.54.160 Taxes and assessments.
5.54.170 Interest on late payments.
5.54.180 No accord and satisfaction.
5.54.190 Not in lieu of other taxes or fees.
5.54.200 Continuing obligation and holdover.
5.54.210 Costs of publication.
Article V. Wireless Franchise Applications
5.54.220 Wireless franchise application.
5.54.230 Application criteria.
5.54.240 Wireless franchise determination.
5.54.250 Incomplete application.
Article VI. Site Applications
5.54.260 Franchise necessary.
5.54.270 Site preference.
5.54.280 Height and size restrictions.
5.54.290 Sidewalks and paths.
5.54.300 Equipment.
5.54.310 Visual impact.
5.54.320 Stealth design/technology.
5.54.330 Lighting
5.54.340 Signage
5.54.350 Site design flexibility.

Midvale Municipal Code Page 2/34 |

Chapter 5.54 WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SERVICES
5.54.360 General requirements. '
5.54.370 Application to install an in-strand antenna. |
5.54.380 Application to collocate on an existing pole.
5.54.390 Application to replace a pole.
5.54.400 Application to construct a new pole. [
5.54.410 Application for an eligible facilities request.
5.54.420 Application submission limit.
5.54.430 Incomplete application.
5.54.440 Exceptions to standards.
5.54.450 Accessory uses.

Article VII. Construction and Technical Requirements
5.54.460 General requirement.
5.54.470 Quality.
5.54.480 Licenses and permits.
5.54.490 Relocation of the system.
5.54.500 Protect structures.
5.54.510 No obstruction.
5.54.520 Safety precautions.
5.54.530 Repair.
Article VIII. Provider Responsibilities
5.54.540 System maintenance.
5.54.550 Trimming of trees.
5.54.560 Inventory of existing sites.
Article IX. Wireless Franchise and License Transferability
5.54.570 Notification of sale.
5.54.580 Events of sale.
Article X. Oversight and Regulation
5.54.590 Insurance, indemnity, and security.
5.54.600 Oversight.
5.54.610 Maintain records.
5.54.620 Confidentiality.
5.54.630 Provider’s expense.
5.54.640 Right of inspection.
Article XI. Rights of City
5.54.650 Enforcement and remedies.
5.54.660 Force majeure.
5.54.670 Extended operation and continuity of services.
5.54.680 Removal or abandonment of wireless franchise property.
Article XII. Obligation to Notify
5.54.690 Publicizing work.
Article XIII. General Provisions

5.54.700 Conflicts.
5.54.710 Severability.

Midvale Municipal Code Page 3/34
Chapter 5.54 WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SERVICES :
5.54.720 New developments. :
5.54.730 Notices. ;
5.54.740 Exercise of police power. E
Article XIV. Federal, State and City Jurisdiction F
5.54.750 Construction.
5.54.760 Chapter applicability.
5.54.770 Other applicable ordinances.
5.54.780 City failure to enforce.
5.54.790 Construed according to Utah law.
Article I. Declaration of Findings and Intent—Scope of Ordinance
5.54.010 Findings regarding rights-of-way.
A. Midvale City finds that the rights-of-way within the City:
1. Are critical to the travel and transport of persons and property in the business and social life of the City;
2. Are intended for public uses and must be managed and controlled consistent with that intent;
3. Can be partially occupied by the facilities of utilities and other public service entities delivering utility and
public services rendered for profit to the enhancement of the health, welfare, and general economic well-being
of the City and its citizens; and
4. Are a unique and physically limited resource requiring proper management to maximize the efficiency and
to minimize the costs to the taxpayers of the foregoing uses and to minimize the inconvenience to and negative
effects upon the public from such facilities construction, placement, relocation, and maintenance in the rights-
of-way.
B. Finding Regarding Compensation. The City finds the right to occupy portions of the rights-of-way for limited
times for the business of providing personal wireless services is a valuable use of a unique public resource that has
been acquired and is maintained at great expense to the City and its taxpayers, and, therefore, the taxpayers of the
City should receive fair and reasonable compensation for use of the rights-of-way.
C. Finding Regarding Local Concern. The City finds that while wireless communication facilities are in part an
extension of interstate commerce, their operations also involve rights-of-way, municipal franchising, and vital
business and community service, which are of local concern.
D. Finding Regarding Promotion of Wireless Communication Services. The City finds that it is in the best
interests of its taxpayers and citizens to promote the rapid development of wireless communication services, on a
nondiscriminatory basis, responsive to community and public interest, and to assure availability for municipal,
educational and community services.
E. Findings Regarding Franchise Standards. The City finds that it is in the interests of the public to franchise and
to establish standards for franchising providers in a manner that:
1. Fairly and reasonably compensates the City on a competitively neutral and nondiscriminatory basis as
provided herein;
2. Encourages competition by establishing terms and conditions under which providers may use the rights-of-
way to serve the public;
3. Fully protects the public interests and the City from any harm that may flow from such commercial use of
rights-of-way;

Midvale Municipal Code Page 4/34
Chapter 5.54 WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SERVICES
4. Protects the police powers and rights-of-way management authority of the City, in a manner consistent
with federal and state law;
5. Otherwise protects the public interests in the development and use of the City’s infrastructure;
6. Protects the public’s investment in improvements in the rights-of-way; and
7. Ensures that no barriers to entry of providers are created and that such franchising is accomplished in a
manner that does not prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting personal wireless services, within the meaning of
the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (“Act”) (P.L. No. 96-104).
F. Power to Manage Rights-of-Way. The City adopts the Wireless Communication Services ordinance codified in
this chapter pursuant to its power to manage the rights-of-way, pursuant to common law, the Utah Constitution and
statutory authority, and receive fair and reasonable, compensation for the use of rights-of-way by providers as
expressly set forth by Section 253 of the Act.
5.54.020 Scope of ordinance.
The ordinance codified in this chapter shall provide the basic local framework for providers of wireless services and
systems that require the use of the rights-of-way, including providers of both the system and service, those providers
of the system only, and those providers who do not build the system but who only provide services. The ordinance
codified in this chapter shall apply to all future providers and to all providers in the City prior to the effective date of
the ordinance codified in this chapter, whether operating with or without a wireless franchise as set forth in Section
5.54.760.
5.54.030 Excluded activity.
A. Cable TV. This chapter shall not apply to cable television operators otherwise regulated by Chapter 5.50 (the
“cable television ordinance”) or to open video system providers otherwise regulated.
B. Wireline Services. This chapter shall not apply to wireline service facilities.
C. Provisions Applicable. All of the requirements imposed by this chapter through the exercise of the City’s police
power and not preempted by other law shall be applicable.
Article II. Defined Terms
5.54.040 Definitions.
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their derivatives shall have the meanings set
forth in this section, unless the context clearly indicates that another meaning is intended. Words used in the present
tense include the future tense, words in the single number include the plural number, words in the plural number
include the singular. The words “shall” and “will” are mandatory, and “may” is permissive. Words not defined shall
be given their common and ordinary meaning.
“Antenna” means any exterior transmitting or receiving device mounted on a tower, building or structure and used
in communications that sends or receives digital signals, analog signals, radio frequencies or wireless
communication signals.
“Antenna array” means a single or group of antenna elements and associated mounting hardware, transmission lines,
or other appurtenances which share a common attachment device such as a mounting frame or mounting support
structure for the sole purpose of transmitting or receiving wireless communication signals.
“Applicant” means any person engaged in the business of providing wireless communication services or the wireless
communications infrastructure required for wireless communications services and who submits an application.
“Application” means the process by which a provider submits a request and indicates a desire to be granted a
wireless franchise or site approval to utilize the rights-of-way of the City. An application includes all written
documentation, verbal statements and representations, in whatever form or forum, made by a provider to the City
concerning: the construction of a wireless communication facilities system over, under, on or through the rights-of-

Midvale Municipal Code Page 5/34
Chapter 5.54 WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SERVICES F
way; the personal wireless services proposed to be provided in the City by a provider; and any other matter
pertaining to a proposed system or service. t
“Backhaul network” means the lines that connect a provider’s towers or cell sites to one or more cellular telephone
switching offices or long distance providers, or the public switched telephone network.
“Base station” means a structure or equipment at a fixed location that enables City-licensed or authorized wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network. The term does not encompass a tower as
defined in this chapter or any equipment associated with a tower.
1. The term includes, but is not limited to, equipment associated with wireless communications services such
as private, broadcast, and public safety services, as well as unlicensed wireless services and fixed wireless
services such as microwave backhaul.
2. The term includes, but is not limited to, radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular
and backup power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration (including
Distributed Antenna Systems and small cell networks).
3. The term includes any structure other than a tower that, at the time the relevant application is filed with the
City under this section, supports or houses equipment described in this section that has been reviewed and
approved under the applicable zoning or siting process, or under State or local regulatory review process, even
if the structure was not built for the sole or primary purpose of providing such support.
4. The term does not include any structure that, at the time the relevant application is filed with the State or
the City under this section, does not support or house equipment described in this section.
“City” means Midvale City, Utah.
“Collocation” means the mounting or installation of an antenna on an existing tower, building or structure for the
purpose of transmitting and/or receiving radio frequency signals for communications purposes. Except as otherwise
allowed by this chapter, the cumulative impact of collocation at a site is limited to no more than 6 cubic feet in
volume for antennas and antenna arrays, and no more than 17 cubic feet in volume of associated equipment, whether
deployed on the ground or on the structure itself. In calculating equipment volume, the volume of power meters and
vertical cable runs for the connection of power and other services shall be excluded.
“Construction costs” means all costs of constructing a system, including make ready costs, other than engineering
fees, attorney’s or accountant’s fees, or other consulting fees.
“Control” or “controlling interest” means actual working control in whatever manner exercised, including, without
limitation, working control through ownership, management, debt instruments or negative control, as the case may
be, of the system or of a provider. A rebuttable presumption of the existence of control or a controlling interest shall
arise from the beneficial ownership, directly or indirectly, by any person, or group of persons acting in concert, of
more than thirty-five percent of any provider (which person or group of persons is hereinafter referred to as
“controlling person”). “Control” or “controlling interest” as used herein may be held simultaneously by more than
one person or group of persons.
“Distributed Antenna System” or “DAS” means a network consisting of transceiver equipment at a central hub site
to support multiple antenna locations throughout the desired coverage area.
“Eligible Facilities Request” means any request for modification of an existing tower or base station that does not
substantially change the physical dimensions of such tower or base station, involving:
1. Collocation of new transmission equipment;
2. Removal of transmission equipment; or
3. Replacement of transmission equipment.

Midvale Municipal Code Page 6/34
Chapter 5.54 WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SERVICES [
“Eligible support structure” means any tower or base station as defined in this Section, provided that it is existing at
the time the relevant application is filed with the city under this Section.
“Existing” means a tower or base station that has been reviewed and approved under the applicable zoning or siting
process, or under another State or local regulatory review process, provided that a tower that has not been reviewed
and approved because it was not in a zoned area when it was built, but was lawfully constructed, is existing for
purposes of this definition.
“FAA” means the Federal Aviation Administration.
“FCC” means the Federal Communications Commission, or any successor thereto.
“Franchise” means the rights and obligations extended by the City to a provider to own, lease, construct, maintain,
use or operate a wireless communication system in the rights-of-way within the boundaries of the City. Any such
authorization, in whatever form granted, shall not mean or include: (1) any other permit or authorization required for
the privilege of transacting and carrying on a business within the City required by the ordinances and laws of the
City; (2) any other permit, agreement or authorization required in connection with operations on rights-of-way or
public property including, without limitation, permits and agreements for placing devices on or in poles, conduits or
other structures, whether owned by the City or a private entity, or for excavating or performing other work in or
along the rights-of-way.
“Franchise agreement” means a contract entered into in accordance with the provisions of this chapter between the
City and a provider that sets forth, subject to this chapter, the terms and conditions under which a wireless franchise
will be exercised.
“In-strand antenna” means an antenna that is suspended by or along a wireline between support structures and is not
physically supported by any attachments to a base station, utility support structure, or tower. An in-strand antenna
may not exceed 3 cubic feet in volume. For each in-strand antenna, its associated equipment, whether deployed on
the ground or on the structure itself, may not be larger than 17 cubic feet in volume. In calculating equipment
volume, the volume of power meters and vertical cable runs for the connection of power and other services shall be
excluded. In-strand antennas in the right-of-way are exempt from the requirements of “telecommunications
facilities” found under Title 17 of the Midvale Municipal Code.
“Infrastructure provider” means a person providing to another, for the purpose of providing personal wireless
services to customers, all or part of the necessary system which uses the rights-of-way.
“Macrocell” means a wireless communication facility that provides radio frequency coverage served by a high
power cell site (tower, antenna or mast). Generally, macro cell antennas are mounted on ground-based towers,
rooftops and other existing structures, at a height that provides a clear view over the surrounding buildings and
terrain. Macro cell facilities are typically greater than three cubic feet per antenna and typically cover large
geographic areas with relatively high capacity and are capable of hosting multiple wireless service providers. For
purposes of this chapter, a macrocell is anything other than a small cell or in-strand antenna. In addition to the
requirements found in this chapter, a macrocell must comply with the applicable zoning and use requirements as a
“telecommunications facility” under Title 17 of the Midvale Municipal Code.
“Operator” means any person who provides service over a wireless communication system and directly or through
one or more persons owns a controlling interest in such system, or who otherwise controls or is responsible for the
operation of such a system.
“Ordinance” or “wireless ordinance” means the ordinance concerning the granting of wireless franchises in and by
the City for the construction, ownership, operation, use or maintenance of a wireless communication system.
“Person” includes any individual, corporation, partnership, association, joint stock company, trust, or any other legal
entity, but not the City.

Midvale Municipal Code Page 7/34
Chapter 5.54 WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SERVICES
“Personal wireless services facilities” has the same meaning as provided in Section 704 of the Act (47 U.S.C.
Section 332(c) (7) (c)), which includes what is commonly known as cellular services.
“Provider” means an operator, infrastructure provider, reseller, or system lessee.
“PSC” means the Public Service Commission, or any successor thereto.
“Reseller” refers to any person that provides local exchange service over a system for which a separate charge is
made, where that person does not own or lease the underlying system used for the transmission.
“Rights-of-way” means the surface of and the space above and below any public street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way of any type whatsoever, now or hereafter existing as such within the City.
“Signal” means any transmission or reception of electronic, electrical, light or laser or radio frequency energy or
optical information in either analog or digital format.
“Site” means the location in the rights-of-way of wireless communication facilities and their associated equipment.
In relation to support structures other than wireless communication facilities, site means an area in proximity to the
structure and to other transmission equipment already deployed on the ground.
“Small cells” mean compact, low power wireless equipment which contain their own transceiver equipment and
function like cells in a wireless network, but provide a smaller coverage area than traditional macrocells. A small
cell antenna or antenna array is located inside an enclosure of no more than 3 cubic feet in volume, or in the case of
a small cell antenna or antenna array with exposed elements, the antenna and antenna array and all of its exposed
elements fit within an imaginary enclosure of no more than 3 cubic feet. Small cells may not have more than 6 cubic
feet in volume of antennas or antenna arrays cumulatively. For each small cell, its associated equipment, whether
deployed on the ground or on the structure itself, may not be larger than 17 cubic feet in volume. In calculating
equipment volume, the volume of power meters and vertical cable runs for the connection of power and other
services shall be excluded. Small cells in the right-of-way are exempt from the requirements of “telecommunications
facilities” found under Title 17 of the Midvale Municipal Code.
“Stealth design” means technology or installation methods that minimize the visual impact of wireless
communication facilities by camouflaging, disguising, screening or blending into the surrounding
environment. Examples of stealth design include but are not limited to facilities disguised as trees (monopines),
utility and light poles, and street furniture.
“Substantial change” means a modification that substantially changes the physical dimensions of an eligible support
structure if it meets any of the following criteria:
1. For towers other than towers in the public rights-of-way, it increases the height of the tower by more than
10% or by the height of one additional antenna array with separation from the nearest existing antenna not to
exceed twenty feet, whichever is greater; for other eligible support structures, it increases the height of the
structure by more than 10% or more than ten feet, whichever is greater. Changes in height should be measured
from the original support structure in cases where deployments are or will be separated horizontally, such as on
buildings’ rooftops; in other circumstances, changes in height should be measured from the dimensions of the
tower or base station, inclusive of originally approved appurtenances and any modifications that were
approved prior to the passage of the Spectrum Act (47 U.S.C. Section 1455 (a));
2. For towers other than towers in the public rights-of-way, it involves adding an appurtenance to the body of
the tower that would protrude from the edge of the tower more than twenty feet, or more than the width of the
tower structure at the level of the appurtenance, whichever is greater; for other eligible support structures, it
involves adding an appurtenance to the body of the structure that would protrude from the edge of the structure
by more than six feet;
3. For any eligible support structure, it involves installation of more than the standard number of new
equipment cabinets for the technology involved, but not to exceed four cabinets; or, for towers in the public

Midvale Municipal Code Page 8/34
Chapter 5.54 WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SERVICES
rights-of-way and base stations, it involves installation of any new equipment cabinets on the ground if there
are no preexisting ground cabinets associated with the structure, or else involves installation of ground cabinets
that are more than 10% larger in height or overall volume than any other ground cabinets associated with the
structure;
4. It entails any excavation or deployment outside the current site;
5. It would defeat the concealment elements of the eligible support structure; or
6. It does not comply with conditions associated with the siting approval of the construction or modification
of the eligible support structure or base station equipment, provided however that this limitation does not apply
to any modification that is non-compliant only in a manner that would not exceed the thresholds identified in
(1) through (4).

“System lessee” refers to any person that leases a wireless system or a specific portion of a system to provide
services.

“Telecommunications” means the transmission, between or among points specified by the user, of information of the
user’s choosing (e.g., data, video, and voice), without change in the form or content of the information sent and
received.

“Telecommunications service(s)” or “services” means any telecommunications or communications services
provided by a provider within the City that the provider is authorized to provide under federal, state and local law,
and any equipment and/or facilities required for and integrated with the services provided within the City, except
that these terms do not include “cable service” as defined in the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, as
amended by the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992 (47 U.S.C. Section 521, et
seq.), and the Telecommunications Act of 1996.

“Telecommunications system” or “system” means all conduits, manholes, poles, antennas, transceivers, amplifiers
and all other electronic devices, equipment, wire and appurtenances owned, leased, or used by a provider, located in
the rights-of-way and utilized in the provision of services, including fully digital or analog, voice, data and video
imaging and other enhanced telecommunications services.

“Tower” means any structure built for the sole or primary purpose of supporting any FCC-licensed or authorized
antennas and their associated facilities, including structures that are constructed for wireless communications
services including, but not limited to, private, broadcast, and public safety services, as well as unlicensed wireless
services and fixed wireless services such as microwave backhaul, and the associated site.

“Transmission equipment” means equipment that facilitates transmission for any FCC-licensed or authorized
wireless communication service, including, but not limited to, radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic
cable, and regular and backup power supply. The term includes equipment associated with wireless communications

services including, but not limited to, private, broadcast, and public safety services, as well as unlicensed wireless
services and fixed wireless services such as microwave backhaul.
“Utility support structure” means utility poles or utility towers supporting electrical, telephone, cable or other similar
facilities; street light standards; or pedestrian light standards.

“Wire” means fiber optic telecommunications cable, wire, coaxial cable, or other transmission medium that may be
used in lieu thereof for similar purposes.

“Wireless Communication Facilities” or “WCF” means a staffed or unstaffed facility or location or equipment for
the transmission or reception of radio frequency (RF) signals or other wireless communications or other signals for
commercial communications purposes, typically consisting of one or more antennas or group of antennas, a tower or
attachment support structure, transmission cables and other transmission equipment, and an equipment enclosure or
cabinets, and including small cell technologies.

Midvale Municipal Code Page 9/34
Chapter 5.54 WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SERVICES
Article III. Wireless Franchise Required
5.54.050 Nonexclusive wireless franchise.
The City is empowered and authorized to issue nonexclusive wireless franchises governing the installation,
construction, operation, use and maintenance of systems in the City’s rights-of-way, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. The wireless franchise is granted through a wireless franchise agreement entered into
between the City and provider.
5.54.060 Every provider must obtain.
Except to the extent preempted by federal or state law, every provider must obtain a wireless franchise prior to
constructing, operating, leasing, or subleasing a wireless communication system or providing personal wireless
services using the rights-of-way. The fact that particular telecommunications systems may be used for multiple
purposes does not obviate the need to obtain a franchise for other purposes. By way of illustration and not limitation,
a cable operator of a cable system must obtain a cable franchise, and, should it intend to provide personal wireless
services over the same system, must also obtain a personal wireless franchise.
5.54.070 Nature of grant.
A wireless franchise shall not convey title, equitable or legal, in the rights-of-way. A wireless franchise is only the
right to occupy rights-of-way on a nonexclusive basis for the limited purpose and for the limited period stated in the
wireless franchise; the right may not be subdivided, assigned, or subleased. A wireless franchise does not excuse a
provider from obtaining appropriate access or pole attachment agreements before collocating its system on the
property of others, including the City’s property. This section shall not be construed to prohibit a provider from
leasing conduit to another provider, so long as the lessee has obtained a franchise.
5.54.080 Current providers.
Except to the extent exempted by federal or state law, any provider acting without a wireless franchise on the
effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter shall request issuance of a wireless franchise from the City
within ninety days of the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter. If such request is made, the
provider may continue providing service during the course of negotiations. If a timely request is not made, or if
negotiations cease and a wireless franchise is not granted, the provider shall comply with the provisions of Section
5.54.670.
5.54.090 Nature of wireless franchise.
The wireless franchise granted by the City under the provisions of this chapter shall be a nonexclusive wireless
franchise providing the right and consent to install, repair, maintain, remove and replace its system on, over and
under the rights-of-way in order to provide services.
5.54.100 Regulatory approval needed.
Before offering or providing any services pursuant to the wireless franchise, a provider shall obtain any and all
regulatory approvals, permits, authorizations or licenses for the offering or provision of such services from the
appropriate federal, state and local authorities, if required, and shall submit to the City upon the written request of
the City evidence of all such approvals, permits, authorizations or licenses.
5.54.110 Term.
No wireless franchise issued pursuant to this chapter shall have a term of less than five years or greater than fifteen
years. Each wireless franchise shall be granted in a nondiscriminatory manner.
Article ['V. Compensation and Other Payments

5.54.120 Compensation.
As fair and reasonable compensation for any wireless franchise granted pursuant to this chapter, a provider shall
have the following obligations:
A. Application Fee. In order to offset the cost to the City to review an application for a wireless franchise and in
addition to all other fees, permits or charges, a provider shall pay to the City, at the time of application, seven
hundred (700) dollars as a one-time nonrefundable application fee. The application fee shall also be paid when an
amendment is filed with the City.

Midvale Municipal Code Page 10/34

Chapter 5.54 WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SERVICES
B. Wireless Franchise Fees. The wireless franchise fee, if any, shall be set forth in the wireless franchise
agreement. The obligation to pay a wireless franchise fee shall commence on the effective date of the wireless
franchise. The wireless franchise fee is offset by any business license fee or business license tax enacted by the City.
C. Permit fees. The provider shall also pay fees required for any permit necessary to install and maintain the
proposed WCF.
D. Third-party experts. Although the City intends for City staff to review applications to the extent feasible, to
provide technical evaluations, the City may retain the services of an independent RF expert or engineering
consultant of its choice to provide technical evaluations of permit applications for WCFs except in-strand antennas.
The third-party RF expert shall have recognized training and qualifications in the field of radio frequency
engineering or experience in WCF matters. The RF expert’s review may include, but is not limited to (a) the
accuracy and completeness of the items submitted with the application; (b) the applicability of analysis and
techniques and methodologies proposed by the applicant; (c) the validity of conclusions reached by the applicant;
and (d) whether the proposed WCF complies with the applicable approval criteria set forth in this chapter. The
third-party engineering consultant shall have recognized training and qualifications in the field of structural
engineering. The engineering consultant’s review may include, but is not limited to (a) the accuracy and
completeness of the items submitted with the application; (b) the applicability of analysis and techniques and
methodologies proposed by the applicant; (c) the validity of the conclusions reached by the applicant; and (d)
whether the proposed WCF complies with the applicable approval criteria set forth in this chapter. The applicant
shall pay the cost for any independent expert/consultant fees through a deposit, estimated by the City, paid within
ten (10) days of the City’s request which shall not exceed $1000 per site. When the City requests such payment, the
application shall be deemed incomplete for purposes of application processing timelines until the deposit is received.
In the event that such costs and fees do not exceed the deposit amount, the City shall refund any unused portion
within thirty (30) days after the final permit is released or, if no final permit is released, within thirty (30) days after
the City receives a written request from the applicant. If the costs and fees exceed the deposit amount, then the
applicant shall pay the difference to the City before the permit is issued.
5.54.130 Timing.
Unless otherwise agreed to in the wireless franchise agreement, all wireless franchise fees shall be paid on a monthly
basis within forty-five days of the close of each calendar month.
5.54.140 Fee statement and certification.
Unless a wireless franchise agreement provides otherwise, each fee payment shall be accompanied by a statement
showing the manner in which the fee was calculated and shall be certified as to its accuracy.
5.54.150 Future costs.
A provider shall pay to the City or to third parties, at the direction of the City, an amount equal to the reasonable
costs and reasonable expenses that the City incurs for the services of third parties (including but not limited to
attorneys and other consultants) in connection with any renewal or provider-initiated renegotiation, transfer,
amendment, or a wireless franchise; provided, however, that the parties shall agree upon a reasonable financial cap
at the outset of negotiations.
5.54.160 Taxes and assessments.
To the extent taxes or other assessments are imposed by taxing authorities, other than the City on the use of the City
property as a result of a provider’s use or occupation of the rights-of-way, the provider shall be responsible for
payment of its pro rata share of such taxes, payable annually unless otherwise required by the taxing authority. Such i
payments shall be in addition to any other fees payable pursuant to this chapter to the extent permitted by law.
5.54.170 Interest on late payments.
In the event that any payment is not actually received by the City on or before the applicable date fixed in the
wireless franchise, interest thereon shall accrue from such date until received at the rate charged for delinquent state
taxes.

Midvale Municipal Code Page 11/34

Chapter 5.54 WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SERVICES
5.54.180 No accord and satisfaction.
No acceptance by the City of any fee shall be construed as an accord that the amount paid is in fact the correct
amount, nor shall such acceptance of such fee payment be construed as a release of any claim the City may have for
additional sums payable.
5.54.190 Not in lieu of other taxes or fees.
The fee payment is not a payment in lieu of any tax, fee or other assessment except as specifically provided in this
chapter, or as required by applicable law. By way of example, and not limitation, excavation permit fees are not
waived and remain applicable.
5.54.200 Continuing obligation and holdover.
In the event a provider continues to operate all or any part of the system after the term of the wireless franchise, such
operator shall continue to comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter and the wireless franchise, including,
without limitation, all compensation and other payment provisions throughout the period of such continued
operation; provided, that any such continued operation shall in no way be construed as a renewal or other extension
of the wireless franchise, nor as a limitation on the remedies, if any, available to the City as a result of such
continued operation after the term, including, but not limited to, damages and restitution.
5.54.210 Costs of publication.
A provider shall assume any publication costs associated with its wireless franchise that may be required by law.

Article V. Wireless Franchise Applications

5.54.220 Wireless franchise application.
To obtain a wireless franchise to construct, own, maintain or provide services through any wireless system within
the City’s rights-of-way, to obtain a renewal of a wireless franchise granted pursuant to this chapter, or to obtain the
City approval of a transfer of a wireless franchise, as provided in Section 5.54.570, granted pursuant to this chapter,
an application must be filed with City.
5.54.230 Application criteria.
In making a determination as to an application filed pursuant to this chapter, the City may, but shall not be limited
to, request the following from the provider:
A. A copy of the order from the PSC granting a certificate of convenience and necessity, if any is necessary for
provider’s offering of wireless communication services within the state of Utah;
B. An annually-renewed performance bond or letter of credit from a Utah-licensed financial institution in the
amount of $25,000 to compensate the City for any damage caused by the provider to the City’s rights-of-way or
property during the term of the franchise agreement or the provider’s abandonment of WCFs within a year after the
expiration or termination of the franchise agreement;
C. A written statement signed by a person with the legal authority to bind the applicant and the project owner,
which indicates the applicant’s agreement to comply with the requirements of this chapter.
D. A copy of the provider’s FCC license or registration, if applicable.
E. An insurance certificate for the provider that lists the City as an additional insured and complies with the
requirements of the franchise agreement.
F. A written statement signed by a person with the legal authority to bind the applicant and the project owner,
which indicates that the applicant is willing to allow other equipment owned by others to collocate with the
proposed wireless communication facility whenever technically and economically feasible and aesthetically
desirable. In the case of new multi-user towers, poles, or similar support structures, the applicant shall submit
engineering feasibility data and a letter stating the applicant’s willingness to allow other carriers to co-locate on the
proposed WCF.

Midvale Municipal Code Page 12/34
Chapter 5.54 WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SERVICES
G. A clear and complete description of the applicant’s general approach to minimizing the visual impact of its
WCFs within the City. The approach should account for the standards established under this chapter including :
finished colors, stealth, camouflage, and design standards.
5.54.240 Wireless franchise determination.
The City, in its discretion, shall determine the award of any wireless franchise on the basis of these and other
considerations relevant to the use of the rights-of-way, without competitive bidding.
5.54.250 Incomplete Application.
The City may deny an applicant’s wireless franchise application for incompleteness if:
A. The application is incomplete; and
B. The City provided notice to the applicant that application was incomplete and provided with reasonable
specificity the necessary information needed to complete the application; and
C. The provider did not provide the requested information within 30 days of the notice.
Article VI. Site Applications
5.54.260 Franchise necessary.
Prior to approving a site permit, the applicant must have a valid franchise agreement granted by applicable law.
5.54.270 Site preference.
When WCFs are to be constructed in the right-of-way, the City’s order of preference for a provider:
1. to use existing poles;
2. to construct replacement poles in the same or nearly the same location and with such heights as provided in
this chapter or in the Franchise;
3. to construct new poles.
5.54.280 Height and size restrictions.

’ Any proposed pole shall not exceed 50’ in height. The height of a pole means the vertical distance measured from
the base of the pole at grade to the highest point of the structure including the antenna. A lightning rod, not to
exceed ten feet (10’) in height, shall not be included within pole height. Each antenna or antenna array shall be
located inside an enclosure of no more than 3 cubic feet in volume, or in the case of an antenna or antenna array that
have exposed elements, the antenna or antenna array and all of its exposed elements shall fit within an imaginary
enclosure of no more than 3 cubic feet. WCFs may not have more than 6 cubic feet in volume of antennas or
antenna arrays cumulatively unless otherwise noted in chapter. For each WCF, associated equipment, whether
deployed on the ground or on the structure itself, may not be larger than 17 cubic feet in volume. In calculating
equipment volume, the volume of power meters and vertical cable runs for the connection of power and other
services shall be excluded.

5.54.290 Sidewalks and paths.
Cabinets and other equipment shall not impair pedestrian use of sidewalks or other pedestrian paths or bikeways on
public or private land.
5.54.300 Equipment.
A. Due to the limited size of the City’s rights-of-way, applicants shall be required to install any WCF equipment
according the following requirements to the extent operationally and technically feasible and to the extent permitted
by law. WCF equipment shall be installed either:
1. onor within the pole. If the equipment is installed on the pole, the equipment enclosure must be flush with
the pole, painted to reasonably match the color of the pole, may not exceed in width the diameter of the pole by
