ORDINANCE NO. 2018-O0-4
AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING TEMPORARY LAND USE
REGULATIONS REGARDING THE KEEPING OF PYGMY GOATS IN
MIDVALE CITY.
WHEREAS, the City Council finds that the City’s existing land use
regulations do not adequately address how to classify pygmy goats and how to
regulate the keeping of pygmy goats under the Midvale Municipal Code; and
WHEREAS, the City Council finds that it is in the public interest to review
this issue further, and possibly make changes in the Midvale Municipal Code to
address it; and
WHEREAS, with these findings, Section 10-9a-504 Utah State Code grants the |
City Council the authority to establish, by ordinance, a temporary land use regulation to
regulate an area that is unclear or potentially unregulated.
NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the City Council of Midvale City,
Utah the following:
1) This temporary ordinance shall apply to the keeping of pygmy goats within
the Midvale City boundary; pygmy goats shall be defined as an animal of the
species Capra aegagrus hircus and are a breed of miniature domestic goats
which typically are less than 27 inches high (measured at the shoulder) and
weigh less than 100 pounds at maturity.
2) During the effective period of this temporary ordinance, the City shall toll the
enforcement proceedings for properties, that as of the date of this ordinance,
have pygmy goats.
3) During the effective period of this temporary ordinance, no additional
properties, with the exception of properties having an Agricultural Overlay
zoning designation and required land use permits for the keeping of
livestock, shall be allowed to have pygmy goats kept on the property.
4) This temporary ordinance shall become effective upon adoption and
signature and shall be in effect until six (6) months following said :
adoption date.
PASSED AND APPROVED this 15th day of May 2018.
Robert M. Hale, Mayor

| - ff scORPORATEDS c
“a ‘ JULY 1, 1999 e a
Rori /Andréason, MM a. IO
: : e) Re

) City Recorder PPoRATE 2
Date of first publication: Mav | i 90! $

Voting by City Council “Aye” “Nay”

/ Bryant Brown —

Dustin Gettel =

Paul Glover M

Paul Hunt pet

Quinn Sperry v

Ordinance No. 2018-0-4
