MIDVALE CITY, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2018-O-12
AN ORDINANCE RECLASSIFYING FINANCE, CHAPTER 2.28 OF THE MIDVALE
MUNICIPAL CODE FROM ADMINISTRATION, TITLE 2, TO REVENUE AND
FINANCE, TITLE 3; AMENDING DEFINITIONS AND PROCEDURES FOR
PROCUREMENT BASED ON DOLLAR AMOUNT AND NATURE OF ITEMS;

WHEREAS, pursuant to Midvale Municipal Code (MMC) Section 2.28.230, the Midvale
City Procurement Officer has the authority to administer and maintain the procurement system of the
City; and

WHEREAS, the Procurement Officer also has the duty to keep informed of current
developments in the field of procurement, and to recommend to the City Council from time to time
new or revised procurement rules; and

WHEREAS, the Procurement Officer has determined that to maintain efficiency in the
procurement process of the City, and to obtain full and open competition on all purchases,
amendments to Chapter 2.28 are necessary; and

WHEREAS, the placement of Chapter 2.28 of the MMC, relating to Finance, would be more
appropriately classified under Chapter 3 of the MMC, titled Revenue and Finance.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah as
follows:

Section 1. The City Council desires to amend and reclassify Midvale Municipal Code
Chapter 2.28, as set forth in Exhibit A.

Section 2. This ordinance shall be effective upon date of first publication.

PASSED AND APPROVED this ie day ot Gor. 2018. |

Robert M. Hale, Mayor
ATTEST:
2 f sconPordren Y <,
A JULY 1,199 J &

Rowi Andreason, MMC % Y
City Recorder SPOR ATE x4
Published this_4"day oni 2018.

Voting by the City Council “Aye” “Nay”
Paul Glover u

Paul Hunt Pe

Quinn Sperry LL

Dustin Gettel uu

Bryant Brown heed

—Chapter 2.283.02

FENANCEPROCUREMENT
Sections:

Artieled- General {Reserved}

Ariele H—-Proetrentent

23.2802.208-——010__ Procurement system.
23.2802.240——020__ Compliance.
3.02.030__ 2-28-.220-—Definitions.
3.02.040_ _— 2.28.239—Procurement officerOfficer.
3.02.050__2.28-240-—_Budget limitation.
3.02.060_ _ 2-28-250——Classification of expenditures.Purchase-orders.
3.02.070__ Emergency expenditures.228260—Classification- of expenditures.
3.02.080_ _ 228.270 Emergency procedures-Procurement procedures.
3.02.090__2-28-272-—Prequalification of potential vendors.
3.02.100__2.28-274 Informal bidding procedure.Approved potential vendertist.
3.02.110 _2-28-280-—F ormal bidding procedure.
3.02.120__ Invitation to Bid.2.28.299_tnfermal bidding procedure:
3.02.130__2-28-300——Request for Proposals (Professional Services) Requestfer-quetes-_procedure.
3.02.140 _ Construction-related projects.
3.02.150 _ Contracts.
3.02.160 _2.28.320-—Delivery.
3.02.170__ Ethics.
3.02.180 _ Records.
3.02.190___ Appeals.

Artieled-Generaly (Reserved)
Artele-H Preoeurement

2-28.2003.02.010 Procurement system.
There is hereby established a procurement system to provide procedures and guidelines for the procurement of

| supplies, services, and construction for the ¢ityCity, and to ensure that all such purchases or encumbrances are made
equitably, efficiently and economically. (Ord. 2/16/20100-2 § 1 (Exh. A) (part), 2010: Ord. 4/21/20090-7 § 1 (Exh.
A) (part), 2009: Ord. 10/02/20070-14 § 1 (Exh. A) (2.7.201), 2007: Ord. 1/20/20040-15 (part), 2004. Formerly
2.28.010)

| 3.02.0202.28.240 Compliance.
All expenditures of the ¢it¥City shall conform to the provisions of this chapter and applicable provisions of state law
including, but not limited to, the Uniform Fiscal Procedures Act set forth at Section 10-6-101, et seq., of the Utah

| Code Annotated, as amended. Any expenditure of the eityCity involving federal assistance funds shall comply with
applicable federal law and regulations.

| Any expenditure of the eityCity involving building improvements or public works projects shall comply with
applicable provisions set forth at Section 11-39-101, et seq., of the Utah Code Annotated, as amended. Any

| expenditure of the eityCity involving the construction, maintenance or improvement project of a Class B or C road
or work excluded under Section 11-39-104 of the Utah Code Annotated, as amended, shall comply with applicable
provisions of the State Transportation Code, including, but not limited to, Sections 72-6-108 and 72-6-109 of the
Utah Code Annotated, as amended. No check or warrant to cover any claim against appropriations shall be drawn
unless the claim has been processed according to the relevant provisions provided herein.

| This article-chapter is written to conform as much as possible with federal, state and eityCity statutes and
ordinances. To the extent a provision of this chapter conflicts with federal, state or local statutes or ordinances, the
following rules shall apply:
A. Conflict with State or Federal Statutes or Regulations. If any provisions of this chapter are inconsistent with
those of the state or federal government, the more restrictive provision shall control, to the extent permitted by law.
B. — Conflict with City Regulations or Ordinances. If the provisions of this chapter are inconsistent with one
another or if they conflict with provisions found in other adopted ordinances, resolutions, or regulations of the

| eityCity, the more restrictive provision shall control. (Ord. 2/16/20100-2 § 1 (Exh. A) (part), 2010: Ord.
4/21/20090-7 § 1 (Exh. A) (part), 2009: Ord. 10/02/20070-14 § 1 (Exh. A)(2.7.202), 2007: Ord. 1/20/20040-15
(part), 2004. Formerly 2.28.020)
3.02.0302.28.226 Definitions.
As used in this-articlethis chapter, the following words shall mean:
“Bid”, “proposal”, or “offer” means an offer to perform.
“Bid Package” means all documents, whether attached or incorporated by reference, used for soliciting sealed bids,
such as a notice, bid form, form contract, specifications and similar documents.
“Bidder” means a person who submits a bid or price quote in response to an invitation for bids, or a person who
submits a proposal in response to a request for proposals.
“Bidding” means responding to the ¢itCity’s invitation to bid or request for proposal with an offer to furnish
supplies, services, or construction pursuant to and in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in this
chapter.
“Building improvement” means the construction, modification, or repair of a public building or structure.
“Business” means any corporation, partnership, limited liability company, individual, sole proprietorship, joint stock

| company, joint venture, or any other private legal entity.

“Change order” means a written alteration in specifications, delivery point, drates of delivery, period of
performance, price, quantity, or provisions of a contract, upon a mutual agreement of the parties, to the contract.
“City” means Midvale City.

“Construction” means the process of building, renovation, alteration, improvement, or repair of any public building,
structure, or public work; but does not include the routine operation, routine repair, or routine maintenance of
existing structures, buildings, or real property.

“Construction manager/general contractor” means a contractor who enters into a contract for the management of a
construction project and may be allowed to subcontract for additional labor and materials.

“Construction subcontractor” means a person under contract with a contractor or another subcontractor to provide
services or labor for the design or construction of a construction project: includes a general contractor or specialty
contractor licensed or exempt from licensing under Title 58, Chapter 55, Utah Construction Trades Licensing Act;
and does not include a supplier who provides only materials, equipment, or supplies to a contractor or subcontractor
for a construction project.

“Contract” means any agreement for the procurement of supplies, services, or construction. The mayor is the only
eityCity official with authority to bind the eityCity; contracts without his/her signature are void and do not obligate
the eityCity.

“Contract administration” means all functions, duties, and responsibilities associated with managing, overseeing,
and carrying out a contract between the City and a vendor or contractor. This includes implementing the contract,
ensuring compliance with the contract terms and conditions, executing amendments, resolving contract disputes and
errors, terminating a contract, measuring or evaluating completed work and performance, computing payments, and
closing out a contract.

“Contractor” means a person who is awarded a contract with the City.

—“Cooperative procurement” means a procurement conducted by, or on behalf of the City and a cooperative
purchasing organization.

“Cooperative purchasing organization” means an organization, association, or alliance of purchasers established to
combine purchasing power in order to obtain the best value for the purchaser by engaging in procurements.
“Covered individual” means an individual who, on behalf of a contractor or subcontractor, provides services directly
related to design or construction contract and is in a safety sensitive position, including a design position that has
responsibilities that directly affect the safety of a building improvement or public works project.

“Department head” means the individual who administers a department or his/her designee, or, in the absence of a
department head, the eityCity Mmanager.

“Design-build” means the procurement of design professional services and construction by the use of a single
contract.

“Design professional services” means professional services with the scope of architecture, professional engineering,
master planning, and programming services.

“Drug and alcohol testing policy” means a policy under which a contractor or subcontractor tests a covered
individual to establish, maintain, or enforce a prohibition of (a) the manufacture, distribution, dispensing,
possession, or use of drugs or alcohol, except the medically prescribed possession and use of a drug, or (b) the
impairment of judgment or physical abilities due to the use of drugs or alcohol.

“Emergency purchases” means purchases of supplies, material, equipment or services to mitigate a threat to avoid a
lapse in critical government service, protect the legal interest of the City, or mitigate a circumstance that is likely to
have a negative impact on public health, welfare, ersafety, or public-property.

“Exempt Purchases” means purchases which may be made without formal or informal bidding procedures in
accordance with 3.02.060(E).
“Expenditure” means the purchase of goods, supplies, services, or construction by the City.
“Grant” means an expenditure of public funds or other assistance, or an agreement to expend public funds or other
assistance, for a public purpose authorized by law, without acquiring a procurement item in exchange.
“Immaterial error” mean an irregularity or abnormality that is a matter of form that does not affect substance or an
inconsequential variation from a requirement of a solicitation that has no, little, or a trivial effect on the procurement
process and that is not prejudicial to other vendors; includes missing signature, missing acknowledgement of an
addendum, or a missing copy of a professional license, bond, or insurance certification: a typographical error; an
error resulting from an inaccuracy or omission in the solicitation, and any other error that the procurement officer or
considers to be immaterial.
« . . i” . . . . .
De upplied-as-orde CG-BY—-2A- PFOCHFeHTCH eret tHE-GOS HO egit+e-a-Aa- CHase-atHte+A = 2-H
“Interlocal Agreement” means an agreement approved by resolution of the City Council between the City and
another City or government entity.
“Invitation fer-bidsto Bid” or “ITB” means a formal bidding document utilized for seeking competition for
purchases of supplies and/or services that are defined by the City.
“Joinder Agreements” means an agreement authorizing the City to join or use contracts of local governments within
or outside the State with the authorization of the contracting vendor. This includes national cooperative agreements
with local governments. The originating contracting agency is not liable for the obligations of the City when using
or joining a contract.
number efHabor- hours of days.
“Large Purchase” or “Large Expenditure” means a purchase in excess of $25,000.
“Local bidder” means a bidderbusiness who regularly maintains a place of business and transacts business in, or
maintains an inventory of merchandise for sale in, or is licensed by or pays business taxes to, Midvale City, or the
state of Utah if no bids are received from a Midvale City business.
‘Minor Purchase” or “Minor Expenditure” means a purchase that is less than $3,000.
“Multiple award contracts” means the award of a contract for an indefinite quantity of a procurement item to more
than one person.
‘Multiyear contract” means a contract that extends beyond a one-year period, including a contract that permits
renewal of the contract, without competition, beyond the first year of the contract.
“Performance bond” means a contract of guaranty executed subsequent to award by a successful bidder to protect
| the eityCity from loss due to the inability of the bidder to complete the contract as agreed.
|

“Person” means any business, individual, union, committee, club, other organization, or group of individuals. }
“Procurement” means buying, purchasing, renting, leasing, leasing with option to purchase, or otherwise acquiring F
any supplies, services or construction, and all functions that pertain to obtaining any supplies, services or i
construction, including the solicitation of sources, selection, award, and all phases of contract administration.
“Procurement officer” means the eityCity Mmanager or his/her designee authorized to perform the duties set forth in
Section 2-28.236-3.02.040. ;
“Professional services” means those services that are provided by a person skilled in the practice of a learned and/or
technical discipline. Providers of-a professional services often require prolonged and specialized intellectual :
training, and profess attainments in special knowledge as distinguished from mere skills. Disciplines may include, !
without limitation, to accounting, auditing, architecture, construction design and management, engineering, finance, :
information technology, law, materials testing, medicine, city planning, surveying, underwriting, and others. F
“Proposal” means an offer to provide services. :
“Proposer” means a person who submits a proposal in response to a request for proposals. :
“Public Entity” means any government entity of the United States, a state or political subdivision of state, including
a procurement unit, a municipality or county, or any other government entity located in the United States. i
“Public facility” means a building, structure, infrastructure, improvement, or other facility of a public entity. means-
“Public property” means any item of real or personal property owned, leased, or maintained by the ¢ityCity. :
“Public works project” includes but is not limited to the construction of a park or recreational facility; or a pipeline,

culvert, dam, canal, or other system for water, sewage, storm water, or flood control; but does not include the
replacement or repair of existing infrastructure on private property.

“Purchase order” means a binding agreement the official document-used in committing e##+City funds toward the
purchase of supplies, services, or construction.

“Random testing” means that a covered individual is subject to periodic testing for drugs and alcohol in accordance

with the drug and alcohol testing policy and on the basis of random selection process.
‘Request for Information” means a nonbinding process through which a City representative requests information
relating to a procurement item.

“Request for proposals” or “RFP” means an alternative method to sealed bids that seeks competition for the 3
purchase of goods or services when the needs of the requirement are not always clearly expressed or described

within a written specification and cost is just one of the factors utilized in determining the responsive responsible

bidder; typically used for obtaining services.

“Request for quote” means a document used to solicit procurement items and/or services through the informal

process. Includes the City’s general terms and conditions, a description of the requirement, a quantity (if applicable),

shipping details (if applicable), and contact information of the department head and/or procurement officer

requesting the quote.

ordesired.

“Requisition” means a written request by any eityCity employee to purchase supplies, services or construction.

“Responsible bid” means a bid to furnish supplies, services or construction for the ¢ityCity pursuant to and in

accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in this chapter, which conforms in all material respects to the
invitation for bids.

“Responsive Responsible bidder” means a person who furnishes, when requested, a conforming solicitation and
demonstrates the ability to fully perform all aspects of the contract requirements with the experience, integrity,
reliability, and capacity which will ensure good faith performance; and who has not violated or attempted to violate
any provisions in this chapter.
“Sealed” means manually or electronically secured to prevent disclosure. “Responsible bidder” means-a-personswhe-

; iol hie: £ this ef '
“Services” means the furnishing of labor, time or effort by a contractor, not involving the delivery of a specific end
product other than reports, which is merely incidental to the required performance; but does not include employment
agreements or collective bargaining agreements.
“Small Purchase” or “Small Expenditure” means a purchase greater than $3,000 but less than $25,000.
“Sole Source” means a procurement without competition pursuant to a determination that there is only one source
for the procurement item.
“Solicitation” means the process of notifying prospective bidders of the City’s interest in obtaining quotes, bids, or :
proposals for supplies and/or services.
“Specification” means any description of the physical or functional characteristics or of the nature of a supply,
service or construction item. It may include a description of any requirement for inspecting, testing or preparing a
supply, service, or construction item for delivery. |
“Subcontractor” means any person or entity who may be awarded a contract with a contractor or another i
subcontractor to provide services or labor. Subcontractor includes a trade, contractor, or specialty contractor but
does not include a supplier who provides only materials, equipment, or supplies to a contractor or subcontractor. y
“Supplies” means all property, including but not limited to equipment, materials, and printing, but does not include
real property or any interest therein.
“Veteran” means an individual who has served on active duty in the armed forces for more than one hundred eighty j
consecutive days, or was a member of a reserve component who served in a campaign or expedition for which a
campaign medal has been authorized and who has been separated or retired under honorable conditions, or any k
individual incurring an actual service-related injury or disability in the line of duty, whether or not that person
completed one hundred eighty consecutive days of active duty.
“Vendor” means a person who is seeking to enter into a contract with the City to provide a procurement item and
includes a bidder, an offeror, and/or a proposer.
“Written approval” by ¢it¥City officials includes electronic approval of requisitions, purchase orders, or invoices via
the municipal software system. (Ord. 8/10/20100-6 § 1 (Exh. A) (part), 2010: Ord. 2/16/20100-2 § 1 (Exh. A)
(part), 2010: Ord. 4/21/20090-7 § 1 (Exh. A) (part), 2009: Ord. 10/02/20070-14 § 1 (Exh. A)(2.7.203), 2007: Ord. ,
1/20/20040-15 (part), 2004. Formerly 2.28.030) :
3.02.0402.28.236 Procurement effieerOfficer.
The procurement officer shall be subject to the direction and supervision of the mayor and ¢ityCity Ceouncil and
shall have the powers and duties as established in this chapter, including but not limited to:
A. — Administer and maintain the procurement system provided herein, in accordance with any rules and :
regulations established by the eityCity;
B. Supervise the procurement of all supplies, services, and construction needed by the ¢i#¥City, including
preparation of specifications and negotiation of contracts connected therewith; '

| C. _ Exercise general supervision and control over all inventories or supplies of the eityCity and the accounting for
all such inventories or supplies;
D. Prepare and maintain forms and reports as are reasonably necessary to the operation of this chapter and other :
| rules and regulations of the eityCity;
E. Keep informed of current developments in the field of procurement;
| F. Recommend to the ¢ityCity Ceouncil from time to time such new or revised procurement rules and regulations
as are required to conform to statutory requirements;
G. With respect to public improvements, work with the engineer, attorney and other professional persons
retained by the e#tyCity to assist in the preparation of plans and specifications, and to discharge other related duties.
The professional persons may direct bid openings, conduct investigations of }ewestresponsive responsible bidders,
supervise construction work and perform such other tasks as are provided for by their prospective contracts;
H. — Seek to obtain full and open competition on all purchases as reasonably possible; [
F
I. Establish and maintain programs for the inspection, testing and acceptance of all supplies, services and |
construction to assure conformance with specifications; }
J. Maintain a bidders list, vendors’ catalog file and other records needed for the efficient operation of the
procurement system. (Ord. 2/16/20100-2 § 1 (Exh. A) (part), 2010: Ord. 4/21/20090-7 § 1 (Exh. A) (part), 2009:
Ord. 10/02/20070-14 § 1 (Exh. A)(2.7.204), 2007: Ord. 1/20/20040-15 (part), 2004. Formerly 2.28.040)
3.02.0502.28.246 Budget limitation. |
No expenditure or encumbrance shall be made for any supplies, services or construction for the eityCity in excess of |
total appropriations in the budget, as adopted or subsequently amended by the eityCity, without prior written
approval from the eityCity Mmaanager or the eityCity Ceouncil. (Ord. 2/16/20100-2 § 1 (Exh. A) (part), 2010: Ord.
4/21/20090-7 § 1 (Exh. A) (part), 2009: Ord. 10/02/20070-14 § 1 (Exh. A)(2.7.205), 2007: Ord. 1/20/20040-15
(part), 2004. Formerly 2.28.050) :
3.02.0602.28.250 Purchase orders. I
|
:
i
j
2.28.260——Classification of expenditures.
A. Small Expenditures. Except as otherwise provided herein, any expenditure by the City for supplies, services t
or construction for more than three thousand dollars and less than twenty-five thousand dollars shall be referred to as :
a “small expenditure” and shall be made pursuant to the informal bidding procedures set forth in Section 3.02.100.
Purchases may also be allowed using the State of Utah or other cooperative agreements.LargeExpenditures-Except- ;
f
B. Large Expenditures. Except as otherwise provided herein, any expenditure by the City for supplies, services or
construction for more than twenty-five thousand dollars shall be referred to as a “large expenditure” and shall be ;
made pursuant to the formal bidding procedures set forth in Section 3.02.110 No large expenditure shall be made
without the written approval from the City Manager or his/her designee. Any expenditure of one hundred thousand |
dollars or more must be approved by the City Council. Medium Expenditures_Exceptas-_otherwise provided herein—
i
|

i
f

i

:

i

:

i

i

:

[
'
C. Construction and Public Works Projects. As determined by the City Council and/or the City Manager, projects |
relating to construction projects shall be directed by the department head and follow the procedures as set forth in ;
this Chapter.Smal Expenditures. Exceptas-otherwise provided herein, any expenditure by the city for supplies— |
: 7
D. Expenditures to Resolve Claims and Lawsuits. Expenditures to resolve claims or lawsuits against or by the j
City may be made without obtaining quotes or bids, but should be made with as much due diligence as practicable i
under the circumstances. i
E

Es Exempt Expenditures. The following expenditures of the eityCity shall be referred to as “exempt ;
expenditures” and may be made without formal or informal bidding procedures, but should be made with as much i
competition as practicable under the circumstances. Except where noted, the procurement officer shall determine |
that an expenditure falls within one of these exemptions. All exempt expenditures shall be reviewed by the eitCity |
Ceouncil on at least a monthly basis. ;
5

‘a

1. Minor. Any expenditure amounting to less than ene-three thousand dollars. i

2

2. Sole Source. Any expenditure for geeds-supplies or services which are clearly by their nature not I
reasonably adapted to award by competitive bidding. These expenditures include, but are not limited to, geeds- ;
supplies or services which can only be purchased from a sole source, contracts for additions to and/or repair i

and maintenance of equipment already owned by the ¢ityCity which may be more efficiently added to, repaired {

or maintained by a certain person or firm, and equipment which, by reason of the training of the personnel or an i
inventory of replacement parts, is compatible with the existing equipment owned by the eit¥City. Sole source E
procurements must be approved in writing by the city manager.department head, the procurement officer, and i
either another department head or a representative from Finance or Legal. L

3. | Emergency. See Section 3.02.0702.28.270 for procedures to follow.

j

4. State Bidding. Any expenditure for which competitive bidding or price negotiation has already occurred

on the state level.

5. Interlocal Cooperation. Any expenditure made in conjunction with an agreement approved by resehitien— |
ofthe eityCity Ceouncil between the eityCity and another eityCity or governmental entity. f

i

6. Joinder. Any expenditure made by joining or using a contract originated by another government entity or ;
national cooperative organization with the approval of the City Council. }

7.___ Professional Services. Any expenditure for professional services which by their nature are not reasonably i
adapted to award by competitive bidding. Such-Contracts for such expenditures shall be awarded at the |
discretion of the eityCity managerManager based on the recommendation of the department head_and/or_ |
procurement officer. If the eityCity Mmanager determines that competitive bidding for certain professional i
services would benefit the eityCity, the procedures set forth in Section 2283103.02.130; -Requestfor-
propesalsprofessionalservices}-must be followed. I

#8. Special Sale. Any expenditure made in conjunction with any public auction, closeout sale, bankruptcy

sale or other similar sale when the procurement officer determines in writing that such purchase may be made :

at a cost below the market cost for the same or similar goods and such determination is reviewed and approved i

| by the eityCity Ceouncil.

| $9. _ Exchanges. Any exchange of supplies, materials, property, or equipment between the eityCity and any
other public or private party made by mutual agreement of the respective parties.
| 910. Utah Correctional Industries. Supplies, services, or construction produced by Utah Correctional

Industries may be purchased without seeking competitive quotes or bids. (Ord. 2014-07 § 1 (Exh. A) (part):

Ord. 8/10/20100-6 § 1 (Exh. A) (part), 2010: Ord. 2/16/20100-2 § 1 (Exh. A) (part), 2010: Ord. 4/21/20090-7

§ 1 (Exh. A) (part), 2009: Ord. 10/02/20070-14 § 1 (Exh. A)(2.7.207), 2007: Ord. 1/20/20040-15 (part), 2004.

Formerly 2.28.070)
3.02.0702.28.270 Emergency preeeduresexpenditures.
A. Emergency Procurements. When the Mayor makes a determination of “local emergency” under the provisions
of Section 53-2a-208 of the Utah Code Annotated, the provisions of this chapter are suspended for a period not to
exceed thirty days. Emergency purchases shall be made in accordance with Section 63G-6a-803 of the Utah Code
Annotated. When the mayor makes-a-determination-of local emergency under the provisions-of Section 63-Sa-6-of

; ion-B) of thi bette

B. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, when-there-exists-a threat te-public- health welfare-or
safety;the procurement officer may make or authorize others to make emergency purchases if the purchases are
necessary to avoid a lapse in a critical government service, protect the legal interest of the City, or mitigate a
circumstance that is likely to have a negative impact on public health, safety, welfare, or property.; previded—
thatSuch emergency purchases shall be made with as much competition as practicable under the circumstances. A
written determination of the basis for the emergency purchase and for the selection of the particular contractor or
vendor shall be included in the contract or purchase order file. (Ord. 2/16/20100-2 § 1 (Exh. A) (part), 2010: Ord.
4/21/20090-7 § 1 (Exh. A) (part), 2009: Ord. 10/02/20070-14 § 1 (Exh. A)(2.7.208), 2007: Ord. 1/20/20040-15 i
(part), 2004. Formerly 2.28.080) :
3.02.080__ Procurement Procedures.
A. ___General Purchasing Procedures. Except as otherwise stated within this Chapter, a purchase order is required_
for the purchase of any supply, service, or construction project that is greater than three thousand dollars. Such
purchases shall be reviewed by the procurement officer to determine whether the expenditure requested is for a City
purpose, properly budgeted, and in compliance with City ordinances and policies and state law.
B. Due Diligence. The department head and procurement officer shall act in good faith and demonstrate due t
diligence when selecting the bidding procedure when foregoing the formal or informal competitive bidding process
such as the usage of an interlocal or joinder agreement. In such instances, a best effort shall be made to obtain bids ‘
or proposals from at least three potential vendors.
C.___ Splitting Procurements. Department head and/or procurement officer shall not split or separate procurements_
into smaller orders for the purpose of evading the competitive bidding or request for proposal provisions set forth in
this chapter.
D.___Adversarial Proceedings. The City reserves the right to avoid entering into a contract with a person who is in
adversarial position toward the City. F
E.___ Approvals. All expenditures over $25,000 must be approved by the City Manager. All approvals over
$100,000 must be approved by the City Council.
3.02.0902.28.272 Prequalification of potential vendors. L
A. Prequalification Procedures. The procurement officer may prequalify potential vendors for a one-time bid or a t
request for proposal to provide a procurement item or service specified by the department. To prequalify potential ;
vendors, the procurement officer shall issue a request for statement of qualifications. The following procedures are |
required:

1. __The request for statement of qualifications shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation within
the City limits , and/or posted on the City website, at least ten days prior to the deadline for submission.-and/or
2. __ Stated in the request for statement of qualifications shall be the following:
a. The specific procurement item or service to which the request for statement of qualifications relates;
b. The scope of work to be performed;
c. The instructions and deadline for submitting a statement of qualifications:
d. The criteria by which the department will evaluate statements of qualifications; q
e. Any prequalification requirements unique to the procurement; and
f. May include performance rating criteria. :
3. The process of prequalifying potential vendors must comply with the following conditions:
a. The request for statement of qualifications may not be so restrictive that the criteria limits i
competition;
b. The procurement officer may request potential vendors to provide additional information to clarify
responses pertinent to the request for statement of qualification;
c. The invitation for bids or request for proposals shall be limited to the potential vendors that are
prequalified to provide the specified procurement item or service:
d. If a request for statement of qualifications results in only one potential vendor being placed on the list of i
prequalified potential vendors, the request for statement of qualifications will be cancelled and the list shall
not be used:
e. Before making the list of prequalified potential vendors available to the public, the procurement officer
shall provide each potential vendor who provided information in response to the request, but who did not
meet the minimum qualifications for placement on the list, a written justification statement describing why
the potential vendor did not meet the criteria for inclusion on the list: and
f. The list of prequalified potential vendors shall be made available to the public within thirty days after :
completing the evaluation process. :
B. Potential Vendor Requirements. In response to the request for statement of qualifications, the potential ;
vendors shall provide a timely, responsive response and shall provide the following to be considered:
1, __ Basic information about the vendor:
2. __ The vendor’s experience and work history;
3. Information about the vendor’s management and headstaff:
4. __ Information about the vendor’s licenses, certifications, and other qualifications:
5. __Any applicable performance ratings:
6. _ Financial statements reporting the vendor’s financial condition; and

7. Other pertinent information.A.—As-used-in-this section “vender means:
P ed Wx-the-d
Basie iad ‘es abanea ioe
:
1. Pha dale daseelbiad tx-uisanion HWM ahi dnelees
—_— fa F basta

3.02.100 Informal bidding procedure.
A. Except as otherwise stated in this chapter, small purchases of the City shall be awarded to the responsive
responsible bidder according to the following procedure.
B.___Upon approval of a purchase requisition, the procurement officer shall create a request for quote solicitation
for the procurement item or service needed or desired. The request for quote shall include:
1. _The terms and conditions of the City;
2. __ Specifications of the requirement:
3. _ Shipping terms (if applicable); and
4. __ Any additional information needed to procure the requirement.
C.___Best effort shall be made to solicit the request for quote to at least three potential providers of the supplies.
services, or construction required. Solicitations must be in writing including the potential providers company name
and contact information. A prequalified potential vendor list as described in Section 3.02.090 may be used. '
D.___ Responses to request for quote shall be made in writing: either email, fax, or mail. If potential vendor is
unable to provide a quote, a “no bid” response is acceptable. Documentation shall be made of nonresponses.
E.___A public bid opening is not required. ;
F,___The procurement officer shall select the responsive responsible bidder without bias or favoritism. If only one
quote is received, the bidder may be required to furnish a detailed cost proposal for review and the bid award may be ‘
subject to subsequent negotiation. All information relating to the quotes obtained and selection of the responsive
responsible bidder shall be retained by the City in accordance with the City government records
G.___ Once the vendor has been selected, the procurement officer shall issue a purchase order. j

2.28274 , i ial lor list. :
3.02.1102.28.288 Formal bidding procedure. :
Except as stated otherwise within this chapter, all large expenditures shall be made by written contract and the
responsive responsible bidder shall be selected through the formal bidding process. As determined by Section

3.02.060, either an invitation to bid or a request for proposal, shall be used to select the potential vendor when the

use of a state of Utah or other cooperative agreement is not in the best interest of the City. The City may utilize a

prequalified potential vendor list as described in Section 3.02.090.Exceptas-otherwise-provided herein,alarge-

Peer :
