MIDVALE CITY, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2019-O-02
An Ordinance Adopting Regulations for the Keeping of Miniature Goats

WHEREAS, Section 10-8-84 of the Utah Code, grants the authority to municipalities to
enact ordinances that are necessary and proper to provide for the safety and preserve the health,
and promote the property, improve the morals, peace and good order comfort and convenience of
the City and its inhabitants; and

WHEREAS, the regulation of animals, including, without limitation, miniature goats, is
necessary to provide for the good order of the City; and

WHEREAS, Midvale City wishes to adopt conditions and regulations for the keeping of
miniature goats on premises zoned for single family residential dwellings.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINIED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah as
follows:

Section 1. The City Council desires to adopt Chapter 6.18, Keeping Miniature Goats,
of the Midvale Municipal Code as set forth in Exhibit A.

Section 2. All former ordinances or parts thereof conflicting or inconsistent with the
provisions of this ordinance are hereby repealed.

Section 3. The provisions of this ordinance shall be severable; and if any provision
thereof, or the application of such provision under any circumstance is held invalid or
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, it shall not affect any other provision of this
ordinance, or the application in a different circumstance.

Section 4. This Ordinance shall be effective upon date of first publication.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 5" day of , 2019,

iY STA?
= ff sCORPORATED a Robert Hale, Mayor
ATTEST: w\ tv 1,19 F&F Voting by the City Council “Aye” “Nay”
, (a) mt
on™ By Bryant Brown XK
e Sonate 2 Dustin Gettel -—

Paul Glover —
Rofi L. Andreason, MMC Paul Hunt a
City Recorder Quinn Sperry ue
Published this 15" day of March 2019.

EXHIBIT “A”
Chapter 6.18
KEEPING MINIATURE GOATS
Sections:
6.18.010 Definitions.
6.18.020 Requirements for keeping miniature goats.
6.198.010 DeFIMITIONS. mmm
“Miniature Goat” means an animal of the species Capra hircus which, at maturity, is less than 27 inches high at
the shoulder, weighs no more than 100 pounds, and is more commonly known as a Pygmy, Dwarf, or Miniature
Goat.
6.18.020 Requirements for keeping miniature goats. mmm
Without limiting any of the other requirements of this title, the keeping of miniature goats on premises zoned for
single family residential dwellings with a minimum lot size of at least 0.25 acre and developed with one, but not
more than one, residential dwelling unit shall be permitted provided the following requirements are satisfied:
A. Miniature goats shall be dehorned unless they have reached the age of one (1) year old;
B. Male miniature goats shall be neutered, and female miniature goats shail be spayed;
C. Nomore or no less than two (2) miniature goats shall be kept on a premise;
D. Miniature goats must be vaccinated by a veterinarian licensed in Utah to treat livestock. Proof of
certifications for rabies and other proper vaccinations is required;
E. Miniature goats shall be housed in a detached structure designed to be:
1. Predator proof;
2. Thoroughly vented;
3. Watertight and draft free;
4. Aminimum of fifty (50) square feet of interior space;
5. Constructed with quality exterior building materials and in accordance with the building code;
6. Compliant with all accessory structure setbacks and permit requirements found in Title 17 of
this code;

7. Aminimum of twenty-five (25) feet from any residential structure, exciuding the residential
structure on the property where the goats are kept. This distance may be reduced to not less
than fifteen (15) feet with written permission from the adjacent property owner; and

8. Located in the rear or side yard of the property as defined in Title 17 of this code.

F. Direct access from the miniature goats’ detached structure to an outdoor enclosure is required. The
outdoor enclosure shall include the following attributes:

1. Secured within a minimum five (5) foot tall fence;

2. Secured from the outside in a manner preventing miniature goats escaping the enclosure;

3. Be free of objects enabling the goats to climb out of the enclosure;

4. Easily accessed for cleaning and maintenance; and

5. Located in the rear or side yard of the property as defined in Title 17 of this code.

G. Property shall be graded, sloped, or otherwise contained to prevent animal waste from entering
surface water or from flowing onto another property.

H. Miniature goats’ detached structure and outside enclosure shall be inspected by a representative of
the city designated by the community development director;

|. Property shall be owner occupied or tenant shall provide written permission from the property owner
allowing the keeping of miniature goats on the premises;

J. Miniature goat owner shall obtain a permit issued by Salt Lake County Animal Services and keep it
current until such time miniature goats are no longer kept on the property;

K. Miniature goat milk, cheese, and other goat-related food products from miniature goats shall be used
for personal consumption only; sale of such products is prohibited;

L. The city may enter upon the premises for the purpose of inspecting the goats and related property
improvements.
