ORDINANCE NO. 2019-O-10

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN 2016

TO INCLUDE THE MIDVALE CITY HOUSING PLAN; ALSO PROVIDING A

SAVING CLAUSE AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE FOR THE ORDINANCE.

WHEREAS, Section 10-9a-401 Utah State Code requires that municipalities prepare and
adopt a comprehensive, long-range plan; and

WHEREAS, on October 18, 2016, the City adopted the “Midvale City General Plan,
October 2016”; and

WHEREAS, Section 10-9a-408 Utah State Code requires that municipalities prepare and
adopt a 5-year Moderate-Income Housing Plan element in a municipalities General Plan; and

WHEREAS, the City recognized the need to re-evaluate its vision and goals for housing
based on this changing dynamic through input from its residents, business owners, property
owners and other stakeholders; and

WHEREAS, the Midvale City Housing Plan process included various forms of public
involvement through interviews, public events, workshops, open houses and public hearings; and

WHEREAS, the Midvale City Housing Plan process included the review of existing
studies, plans, policies, ordinances and implementation strategies, as well as an analysis of the
current physical, cultural, demographic and economic conditions of the City related to housing;
and

WHEREAS, following appropriate notice being provided pursuant to Section 10-9a-204
Utah State Code, the Midvale City Planning Commission held a public hearing on the proposed
General Plan on October 23, 2019; and

WHEREAS, on October 23, 2019, the Midvale City Planning Commission forwarded
the proposed Midvale City Housing Plan 2019 to the Midvale City Council recommending
adoption of the Housing Plan; and

WHEREAS, on November 19, 2019, the Midvale City Council held a public hearing on
the Planning Commission’s recommendation for the proposed Housing Plan, receiving additional
public input.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah
as follows:

Section 1. The “Midvale City Housing Plan” shall be adopted and included as part of
the Midvale City General Plan 2016 as provided in Exhibit A, herein.

Section 2. If any part of this ordinance or the applications thereof to any person or

circumstances shall, for any reason, be adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
unconstitutional or invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair or invalidate the remainder of
this ordinance or the application thereof to other persons and circumstances, but shall be
confined to its operation to the section, subdivision, sentence or part of the section and the
persons and circumstances directly involved in the controversy in which such judgment shall
have been rendered. It is hereby declared to be the intent of the City Council that this section
would have been adopted if such invalid section, provisions, subdivision, sentence or part of a
section or application had not been included.
Section 3. This ordinance shall be effective upon publication of a summary thereof.
PASSED AND APPROVED this 19" day of November 2019.
QA fae
Robert Hale, Mayor
ATTEST:
AX STA?
\ = &§ ssCORPORATED YS
>
Rori Andreason, MMC sq" J =
City Recorder eK Uy 1,199 Ff *
o,* e,
a CR py ES
Date of first publication: November 24, 2019 ORATE
Voting by City Council “Aye” “Nay”
Dustin Gettel \~
Paul Glover Pal
Paul Hunt un
Bryant Brown Val
Quinn Sperry ia

“EXHIBIT A”
Adopted Midvale Housing Plan

\ X Mi - city Bea H i if .
ro mat feel thee. lll (aie wie, dat "
hy es, . Te ee Li} |
i Tee. pe - : j. i op pe : cae, __
Ney MAR a A oe Tk i i " 7 eo
: ‘te > ee if r a ill "| oo of
e ES ge i " Sj ati: et reil B..& - —_ _— i
me ie oF ees | ae ie hme <a iff ; aa '
ee LF, Aen eli a maa i. i ih) ; b "e MM " a At
. ig mi 7" a i i Bia fe sa ga Se ie TS oem. ol
isa ia te te , ids i } Tete
G a Merge lin ct a oo Aenea
@ sly ii Ph te ammmmees cteta aman atiatiyi tl, (uiM ih a SO eM CON NN oN
LE OF,
AY F +
s a
2 +
Z a 4 Aye
AN fetes!
ys Es7 490? “<i

<LEFT BLANK>

TABLE OF CONTENTS
LETTER FROM THE MAYOR 4
LETTER FROM THE RDA DIRECTOR 5
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 6
INTRODUCTION LiL
DEMOGRAPHIC & HOUSING ANALYSIS 15
. PUBLIC OUTREACH RESULTS 19
HOUSING GOALS 23
ISSUES, STRATEGIES & RECOMMENDATIONS) 24
PLAN IMPLEMENTATION 38
HOUSING SUPPLY DATA 39
GLOSSARY 43
Midvale City Housing Plan 1

il
iii ith a
Oo i
ha a Te
Te, MW Hi 1 ! i!
Fm tha i
‘at i — i, n
| Fay { i) oa manages Ely
| oa F | ll ' i Sci i a J
| Paley i Muy *, Uy i! Pi Phen
i, i | if i wu m
a | ‘| ‘a ee i beivanlonanay ~ Hi | nine — i Wn rng
ee ‘ cena | Seemed met Ay i heel aed fe SL
| em Mn Pa . aaa ai i | ie i ins it ia a bf
iit i! paar ie », a m y saute eo tl a ia coo ee * olin
WAN a) ri iis "
A UA il ll ii mM A Ha fi | Senna a ih ‘| ui
\ a i ] iid Ma t tf f i he Ca i i Lt Ha
i | aa | he cai | "4 < m
Pe | on cad
t ¥ i ‘i, je’ 1 Py “
Ri} . t »
tae & i te ul ee mt 4 ee -
< i es : Bis ccoree Se pop eer 4 han > lia 3 aa
= _ —. + io jae > a yeaa Sade on os “ mao ‘= a ig ae) % a
‘ tou Fs fy — am Peas at ae ; ) . Ooty i i, 1 Mle f
: sg bee: a hy a! Oo aia i a a. ;
7 Naima Ey : ee a i mo
aed yh, + me Se ath at re ie pos =e
in lll te ‘ +, . ng ie eae a
. . mn ; » is = *
" ‘>> 7. ae i
7 ¥ * * -
. hou
. , «

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
THE MIDVALE COMMUNITY
Special appreciation is given to all community members and service providers
who participated in stakeholder interviews, attended Housing Plan Open
House meetings and events, completed surveys and provided their thoughts
and comments throughout the process.
MAYOR ROBERT M. HALE COMMUNITY & ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
KANE LOADER, CITY MANAGER Matt Dahl, Assistant City Manager,
. .
CITY COUNCIL Community Development Director
Lesley Burns, City Pla
Quinn Sperry, District 1 cone my manner
Matt Hild IS Admini
Paul Glover, District 2 a ilderman, GIS Administrator
| hy, A iate P|
Paul Hunt, District 3 Alex Murphy, Associate Planner
Jana Ward, P|
Bryant Brown, District 4 ana Wer anner
Dustin Gettel, District 5 IT DIVISION
Matthew Pierce
PLANNING & ZONING antes
COMMISSION Jake Shepherd
Richard Judkins, Commission Chair Juan Rosario
Zachary Small d, Vice-Chair
achary Smallwood, Vi VODA STAFF
Coll Costello
ones 08 Mark Morris
Kass Wallin
Bryce Bushman
Candy Tippets
VRP Lauren Y. Leydsman
Tayler Jensen
Robyn Anderson
REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
Patrick O’Brien, Redevelopment
Agency Housing Manager
Jessica Stephens, Redevelopment
Agency Project Manager
Adoption Date: 19 Nov 2019
Midvale City Housing Plan 3

LETTER FROM THE MAYOR
To my Fellow Midvale Residents,
Today, we are looking to the future with our new housing plan. This plan
, is laying the groundwork to build and preserve housing for our growing
f * population, to support Midvale residents with a range of incomes, and in all
: 5" vd types of housing. This is a plan to get ahead of the pressures we will face — to
. protect our neighborhoods, and to build and enhance our community for
Te a future generations.
‘ Today’s challenges are, in many ways, a result of our great success as a state.
R Utah is growing. We are a safe, welcoming, and dynamic place that has
attracted many people seeking to live, study, work or start their businesses.
Our growth from inward migration, coupled with the natural growth of our
population is placing great stresses and demands on our housing market. This
growth, combined with ever-rising economic inequality has created a difficult
and painful reality, a growing number of Utahns and Midvale residents are
spending more to cover their housing costs. Entire neighborhoods are losing
their affordability, and with the changing dynamics of our neighborhoods, our
great city is beginning to change.
Midvale has always been the heart of the Salt Lake Valley. We truly are in the
middle of everything, but we are losing our affordability — one of the reasons
many people have historically made Midvale their home. Over the decades,
Midvale’s great location and affordable housing stock has been an attractive
lure for prospective residents and homeowners. The variations in levels of
affordability of Midvale’s housing, coupled with our diverse range of housing
types located throughout our city is what contributes to making Midvale a
great place to live, and why many people choose to live here. Our cultural
diversity, and broad range of housing types, allows Midvale to excel in all facets
of city life. With the range of services and amenities that are available to us,
and the strong sense of pride that each of us holds for our city, | truly believe
that a concise and effective Housing Plan will only serve to strengthen our
community and make Midvale a city where everyone is welcome and where
anyone can live, regardless of their social or economic background.
This is a 5-year housing plan that will begin to pave the way that Midvale
needs to follow in order to support its current and future residents and all of
the housing needs that we may face together as a community.
Robert M. Hale, Mayor
4 Midvale City Housing Plan

LETTER FROM THE ASSISTANT CITY MANAGER

& COMMUNITY AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

DIRECTOR

Members of our community are far too often faced with making difficult ic ‘haf ue Eat
decisions that place them in uncertain and compromising circumstances. i 7 il ,
Nobody should have to choose between having enough food for themselves i ~ > ®
and their family, and having a roof over their head at night. The reality is “eas . 7 J
that in our great City, some members of our community are faced with these oe fast | a S&S 4
decisions — they must choose between food and rent. This challenge creates a } hs ee. '®
an instability in our neighborhoods, and as such, impacts our wider city. gs i eS :
Through the preparation of the Housing Plan, City staff have identified many of x _ y

these challenges that affect our city and effect you, our residents. It is through \ ~~ ££

this identification of challenges and issues, that we as a City can eliminate the ; ie

housing instability in our neighborhoods, and start to bring stability to our

residents and the areas of Midvale in which they live. The Midvale City Housing

Plan is a response to the challenges that we face as a city, and as a State. The

Plan looks at ways of how we can take steps to enhance the lives of those

who live in our city through the provision of stable housing that is available to

people from all economic backgrounds.

Our Housing Plan focuses on the central issue of growth, and the challenges

that this poses to our city, now and in the future. By planning for future

growth, we ensure that our children and our grandchildren have a place to

call home, and that they are not faced with the housing challenges that we

face today. By planning for the growth of our city, we seize an opportunity to

respond to current challenges and failures that exist in our housing market,

and ensure that Midvale’s future is filled with a diverse range of housing types

in stable neighborhoods, that future generations can call home.

Matt Dahl, Assistant City Manager & Community Development Director

Midvale City Housing Plan 5

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
MIDVALE HOUSING MARKET
Midvale is a city of 33,208 (2017) people, contributing 3% of the county’s
CITY POPU LATION population and 1% of the state’s population. Market demand regionally is
very strong, with population growth driving new development. Midvale has
benefited significantly from this growth, having the largest and most sustained
period of residential construction in its history over the past eight years.
Midvale’s rate of growth between 2010 and 2015, at 12%, outstripped the
region. If this rate of growth continues, by 2040 it would be 52,000. While
ted O U S E iH O L DS recent development has contributed to Midvale’s economy, historic market
conditions persist and act as a drag limiting the benefits of this new growth.
Fundamentally, Midvale’s housing market is driven by the short-term nature
of its residents. Market data implies that there is a cycle of “Grow and Go”
occurring, where people move to Midvale as young adults and leave the city
when their economic status improves, or their family grows. Supporting this
HOME OWNERSHIP interpretation of the data is the fact that over half of Midvale households have
W rental unit (58%) J owner occupied (42%) lived in their current home for less than five years. Over time, this cycle has
resulted in the disproportionate growth of specific groups within Midvale’s
population that have not flourished in the post-great recession rally. These
{i 4h. 4 Gi 4h groups, including post-college millennials and impoverished, single-adult, and
fi. ra < i. i. single-parent households, often are limited to the cheapest or most accessible
housing available. Additionally, Midvale has a disproportionately low number
ih. eb th te i of high-income households and married couples with children.
ry fi cc he i. The nature of Midvale’s housing stock is directly related to the short-term
nature of the city’s residents. In Midvale, 58% of all housing units, including
Over half of Midvale homes are rental multi-family and single-family, are rentals, which far exceeds the proportion
properties of rental units in the county (34%). Additionally, the median home value
in Midvale, at $201,000, is significantly lower than the county. Households
that wish to remain in Midvale as their financial situation improves, face
limited options with a small number of high-opportunity neighborhoods
festa mena taep eats (neighborhoods with access to transit, quality educational institutions, an
is the data that the State requires the abundance of jobs, fresh food, and open space) or large new homes being
City to use as a part of our reporting available. This is highlighted by the low number of homes valued at $500,000
requirements for affordable housing or above.
reporting.
6 Midvale City Housing Plan

While the lack of high-end housing will need to be addressed to support a
more socioeconomically balanced city, this cannot over shadow the needs of COST BURDENED RENTERS
Midvale’s current low- and moderate-income residents. A significant number (burdened (46%) not burdened (54%)
of Midvale’s residents live in homes that are too small, in poor condition,
or have rental rates that leave tenants cost burdened. Forty-six percent of
all renter households are cost burdened, spending more than 30% of their
income on housing. These households are susceptible to changes in the
economy or personal emergencies, either of which could result in dire financial
consequences or even homelessness. In addition to the number of cost
burdened households, 5,100 people, representing 17% of residents in Midvale,
live below the federally established poverty level (e.g., an individual making
less than $11,700 or a three-person household earning less than $20,090).
This includes 1 in 3 children. Providing support for the cost burdened and
impoverished households in Midvale is needed to reduce the number of short- Almost half of Midvale renters are
term residents and create more stable neighborhoods. cast-burdened:
HOUSING PLAN MEDIAN INCOME
WMidvale City JH Salt Lake County
The Midvale City Housing Plan is intended to be a five-year plan that
$70,000 asic RAEN TE
identifies current and anticipated issues within Midvale’s housing market and ee _—
establishes the citywide policies that will address those issues. It will provide SEB Obi on ean —
a guide for building better neighborhoods, stabilizing existing neighborhoods, a Le cose
and accommodating Midvale’s future growth. Through a process of public $30,000 -==--- oo seseeee
engagement and market research six general issues were identified as ~ ‘imal en
influencing housing trends in the city: $10,000"--"-- ia ined
* Population Growth
The median income of Midvale
¢ Housing Stock Quality and Diversity residents is lower than the County
: median
¢ Home Ownership
¢ Neighborhood Stability
e Education
¢ Housing Affordability
The Midvale City Housing Plan provides an analysis of the current housing
market with policies recommended to address the issues, which are prevalent
in the market based on the demographic, social, economic, and housing
characteristics of Midvale, its residents and their particular needs.
The recommended policies established in this plan are identified under their
related issues:
POPULATION GROWTH
¢ Reduce Lot Size Requirements in Residential Zones
¢ Strategically Encourage Density in Neighborhoods of Opportunity
¢ Modernize Parking Regulations to Support Residential Development
Midvale City Housing Plan 7

ih iiiiieae a “ ¢ Adopt By-Right Development in Strategic Locations (Especially around
M 4 transit)
i oo i. * Modernize Setback and Open Space Requirements
: RG sii + AWE * Encourage the Development of Missing Middle Housing to Accommodate
— «& gue Housing Choice for People at All Stages of Life
LAN il ul re ¢ Simplification of Subdivision Process
ZN
be scone > he 4 HOUSING STOCK QUALITY AND DIVERSITY
¢ Promote and Incentivize the Development of Accessory Dwelling Units
(ADUs)
Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs)
increases the affordable housing ¢ Acquire and Redevelop Blighted Residential Units in Single Family
supply, while financially benefitting Neighborhoods
t ,
PFOREEL) ONREES ¢ Provide a Financial Incentive to Improve Homes
| ¢ Business License Program for Landlords
we HOME OWNERSHIP
SiS i Lm Pi | 1 ¢ Down-Payment Assistance Program for New Home Owners
epee i lle
i t Mad sive NEIGHBORHOOD STABILITY
. pies ¢ Support Code Enforcement Efforts
i * Support the Development of Walkable Neighborhoods Through Improved
co Connectivity, Development of Neighborhood Scaled Amenities, Good Urban
a Design
Encouraging mixed-income, multi-unit
developments increases density and EDUCATION
social mobility for moderate- to low-
income residents. ¢ Maintain and Distribute Housing Data and Information
¢ Provide Educational Opportunities For Renters and Landlords with Housing
Industry Partners
¢ Provide Homeownership Education with Housing Partners
HOUSING AFFORDABILITY
¢ Encourage Mixed-Income Multi-Unit Developments in Strategic Locations
¢ Focus Programs on Households Making 80% AMI or Less
¢ Include Density Bonuses for Affordable Housing Developments in Strategic
Locations
¢ Consider Use of Community Land Trust
¢ Acquire and Redevelop Blighted Residential Units in Single Family
Neighborhoods
8 Midvale City Housing Plan

ah 7
WHAT IS A “COST-BURDENED HOUSEHOLD”?
A household spending 30 percent or more of its gross income on total housing expenses — rent/mortgage,
basic utilities, and property taxes — is considered “cost burdened.” A household spending 50 percent or
more of its gross income on housing is “severely cost burdened.”
In Midvale: 46% of renters are cost burdened
22% of homeowners are cost burdened
8% of homeowners are severely cost burdened
EXTREMELY LOW-INCOME PEOPLE AFFORDABLE RENT & UTILITIES: <$400/MO.
=<$16,000 per year, poverty level People 65 years and older, People with disabilities, ;
a ; People who live on a fixed income such as social
a " (\Y or awivs security
LOW-WAGE WORKERS AFFORDABLE RENT: $420-$635/MO.
$16,640 to $25,300 per year for an individual AFFORDABLE HOME: <$175,000
Childcare Provider, Veterinary Assistant, Ski Patrol,
30 = 5 0% A M i Cashier, Visual/Performance Artist, Custodian, Fast )
oO Food Cook, Hotel Clerk
LOW-INCOME HOUSEHOLDS AFFORDABLE RENT: $900-$1,445/MO.
$36,100 to $57,750 per year for a family of four AFFORDABLE HOME: $175,000-$200,000
Home Health Aide, Accounting Clerk, Legal )
50 = 80% AM | Secretary, Physical Therapy Assistant, Truck
°o Drivers, Flight Attendant, Automotive Mechanic,
Kindergarten Teacher
MODERATE-INCOME HOUSEHOLDS AFFORDABLE RENT: $1,445-$1,805/MO.
$57,800 to $72,200 per year for a family of four AFFORDABLE HOME: $200,000-$255,000
Special Education Teacher, Graphic Designer, :
80 on 1 00% AMI Electrician, Sales Representative, Chef,
o Chiropractor, Social Worker
HIGH-INCOME HOUSEHOLDS AFFORDABLE RENT: $2,000-$2,700/MO. i
$86,600 to $108,000 per year for a family of four AFFORDABLE HOME: $300,000-$400,000
Chemist, Electrical Engineer, Human Resources
1 20 = 1 50% AMI Manager, Nurse Practitioner, Attorney, Dentist, IT :
°o Manager
Midvale City Housing Plan 9

z Wit Mg ia
a Ne aT He , Hh
main nie shy ia Ml i a Te }
Bas) Uy ’ th ri
Jd "i mai MINH tt, wai ial
i uh ‘ie Hy Ph
fi want Nich Ht, y
Ui: fy | ii | anne i
i. ‘a f jut { ] i , | : Hines 1
| | ie - Hd | =” 4 a i es - na sisi aa +
ai 4 ge yg ~ tan ’ = b
re So oa . Ps et mien.
ite " £44 a," ma Ht if a 4 — .— li, oat 4 yi i i ai i
Na : i e i ee ee 4 i Fae lh tae | ; ; | } i
' ™ Wi Wiig a iP) ie i, © gl it H , i |
aia ' Ey ‘W vt ft hid oul i je: ye © i j 1 Hh
a a LWW | io ee i, 4 \, 44 tes t i 4 Ny
“Ti 4% on , oe me e . lle 2 aes al i a " , 4 i ‘di
\ 7 es * ® ‘. 2a is 1 ial * * _ i igi — i " “* th ii f
, a ila a * ; el dh et Pm ie aii I, PP aia ig i ek i ck, a
ee led d o"- " o i i ee "he cond ae €
ST ncaa a w " i ql ewe * . ee Pie f- oF a atl
Sati " \ i F ; | im 4 r® yi Hilal Pet . bd ie ta ey " ‘f
m Wisi RRC MRRAN AER Rae ATH tia 4 J a sna nea
a eee il baer ‘till a iis ig ai inset ih il su | ie en ye Fa ih ee. ee om
Ra ii om ge, Regd Ne arial le te i ci git Pm! sage
We My ke ‘sale GS poy gem: aera as Ale hp et ae th al ag ee al
“ at dt ee pe si ot I eatin im. Steal weed
~ * aia apa Sobel iy iets sd ee
ig "ig oth ae ‘eth ee
i inl i ie ga HMI cla Bees ea Na
he “steam hag ¥, he ee ai
