ORDINANCE NO. 2019-0-03

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 17 OF THE MIDVALE CITY MUNICIPAL
CODE BY: INCREASING THE RESIDENTIAL DENSITY IN THE JORDAN BLUFFS
ZONE; ADDING CHAPTER 17-7-10.12 CREATING A REVIEW PROCESS AND LAND
USE REGULATIONS FOR SUBAREAS 1-3 OF THE JORDAN BLUFFS ZONE;
AMENDING AND REPEALING SECTIONS IN CHAPTER 17-7-10; AND AMENDING
CHAPTER 17-2; ALSO, PROVIDING A SAVING CLAUSE AND AN EFFECTIVE
DATE FOR THE ORDINANCE.

WHEREAS, pursuant to Sections 10-9a-501 through 10-9a-503 Utah State Code,
Midvale City (the “City”) has the authority to make and amend any regulation of or within
zoning districts or any other provision of the land use ordinance to promote the prosperity,
improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, convenience, and aesthetics of the
municipality; and

WHEREAS, on January 2, 2002, the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance (Title 17 of the
Midvale City Municipal Code (the “Code”)) became effective and may be subject to
amendments from time to time pursuant to Section 17-3-1 the Code; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 17-1-1 of the Code, the City desires to “promote
coordinated development, redevelopment, effective use of land, and site planning”, “support the
goals of the Midvale City General Plan”, and “foster convenient, compatible and efficient
relationships among land uses”; and

WHEREAS, since the adoption of Section 17-7-10 of the Code creating the Jordan
Bluffs Zone, the City has recognized it would need to create the specific land use regulations for
this zone in collaboration with a master developer when the components were in place for
development to occur on the Jordan Bluffs property; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on February 13, 2019 to
review the proposed text amendment regarding Subareas 1-3 of the Jordan Bluffs Zone, with
such meeting being preceded by required notice, and the Planning Commission forwarded
recommendations on such to the City Council on this same date; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on March 5,
2019, which meeting was preceded by required notice, on the proposed text amendment; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah, after taking into consideration
citizen testimony, planning analysis, and the Planning Commission recommendation, finds it is
appropriate and within the best interests of the City to make this change to the Code.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah as
follows:

Section |. The following chapters and sections of the Midvale City Municipal Code are
hereby amended as included in the following attachments to this document:

e ATTACHMENT A — Adding new Chapter 17-7-10.12
e ATTACHMENT B — Amending Chapter 17-2
e ATTACHMENT C — Amending and Repealing sections of Chapter 17-7-10

Section 2. The maximum residential density allowed in the Jordan Bluffs Zone shall be
increased from 2,500 units to 3,500 units.

Section 3. If any part of this ordinance or the applications thereof to any person or
circumstances shall, for any reason, be adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
unconstitutional or invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair or invalidate the remainder of
this ordinance or the application thereof to other persons and circumstances, but shall be
confined to its operation to the section, subdivision, sentence or part of the section and the
persons and circumstances directly involved in the controversy in which such judgment shall
have been rendered. It is hereby declared to be the intent of the City Council that this section
would have been adopted if such invalid section, provisions, subdivision, sentence or part of a
section or application had not been included.

Section 4. This ordinance shall be effective upon the execution of the Amended and
Restated Master Development Agreement for Jordan Bluffs Property by Jordan Bluffs property
owner, the Mayor signing this ordinance, and the City Recorder publishing a summary thereof.

PASSED AND APPROVED this (4 day of ) y COW, 2019. |
obert M. Hale, Mayor
TTEST:

’ , \TUSTA "€ 5
Ro i Andreason, MMC Shes CORPORATE “

City Recorder af >
Date of first publication: (4 A Uy 1,199 7
or fy
SPoRATE 2
Voting by City Council “Aye” “Nay”

Bryant Brown x

Dustin Gettel —

Paul Glover oll __

Paul Hunt Le

Quinn Sperry — _

ATTACHMENT A
*New Chapter to be added
Chapter 17-7-10.12
Jordan Bluffs Subareas 1-3 Development
Sections:
17-7-10.12.1 Purpose.
17-7-10.12.2 Review Process.
17-7-10.12.3 Uses.
17-7-10.12.4 Large Scale Master Planned Development Submittal
17-7-10.12.5 Development Requirements.
17-7-10.12.6 Parking and Access Standards.
17-7-10.12.7 Landscaping and Irrigation Standards.
17-7-10.12.8 Fencing and Screening Standards.
17-7-10.12.9 Outdoor Lighting Standards.
17-7-10.12.10 Residential Development Standards.
17-7-10-12.11 Commercial Development Standards.
17-7-10-12.12 Additional Standards for Specific Uses.
17-7-10-12.13 Signage.
17-7-10.12.1 Purpose.
The purpose of this Chapter is to create the zoning plan required in Chapter 17-7-10 and the specific
development review process for development in Subareas 1-3 of the Jordan Bluffs Zone. This chapter
applies to all residential, commercial and mixed use development in the area depicted as Subareas 1-
3 in the Jordan Bluffs Zone and described as Lot 2 in the Jordan Bluffs Subdivision. Provisions of Title
17 of the Midvale Municipal Code shall apply to all development in Subareas 1-3. To the extent that a
provision of the Midvale Municipal Code, conflicts or is inconsistent with the provisions set forth in this
Chapter, the provision of this Chapter shall apply. Figure 1 represents the concept plan for Subareas
1
ORDINANCE NO. 2019-O0-03 | Attachment A

1-3 created for the purpose of identifying fourteen (14) pods. Indications to “pod”, “pods”, or “park”
within this Chapter shall reference Figure 1 for general location. This concept plan is designed to guide
the main infrastructure and master planning of the site in a manner consistent with the zoning plan and
environmental conditions associated with the site. A large scale master planned development
application shall be submitted for each pod area based on the specific development standards
COMAINED METI. a csmmmmnmumnnininunnannannuuniinnununinniinsinininisuinninisnsee
Figure 1
Subarea 1-3 Project Areas
ets | pooc “
eee nS = | is ai . tS 4
LG =) 4 me, f §
*y ; nae . aes anit 3 sf a a i TOP UE Ok
Sian ane YG
x , STATION
17-7-10.12.2 Development Review Process
The following development review process applies to all new development in Jordan Bluffs Subareas
A. Initial Contact. The applicant shall confer with the community development director to discuss
the proposal and applicable development review and approval procedures.
2
ORDINANCE NO. 2019-O-03 | Attachment A

B. initial Staff and Development Review Committee Review. The applicant shall provide the
planning and zoning staff with a concept plan to allow for an initial review of the proposal. The
concept plan shall show the location of all proposed streets, alleys, drives, pedestrian and
bicycle elements, buildings, parking areas, landscaped areas, screening, uses of land and
buildings, building heights, building elevation sketches showing typical exteriors and
architecture, integration with the surrounding area, phasing plan, and other features. This
concept plan shall be construed to be an illustration of the development concepts only and not
an exact representation of the specific development proposed. After staff determines a
complete concept plan proposal has been submitted, staff shall schedule a review by the
development review committee. The applicant shall appear before the development review
committee to address its concerns and to field input.

C. Planning Commission Work Session. The applicant shall present the concept plan to the
planning commission in a work session at least once before submitting a formal application.
The work session shall be for discussion and informal feedback purposes only, and no action
shall be taken concerning the concept plan.

D. Large Scale Master Plan. The applicant may submit an application for a large scale master
planned development following completion of the procedural steps above. A large scale
master planned development application and approval is required for each pod shown on the
concept plan in Figure 1 of this Chapter prior to any specific development applications, i.e.
subdivision plats, site plans, and building permits. A master planned development application
may include multiple pods. A subdivision plat recorded for purposes of identifying and
dedicating roadways between pods may be recorded before submission of a large scale
master planned development application provided the applicant shows how such roadways
are anticipated to provide access and circulation to affected future development. A subdivision
plat may also be recorded to establish the boundary of Pod “C” or the park. A large scale

nn. dnaster plan shall comply with the provisions of Section 17-7210. 4 mmm

E. Development Agreement. A development agreement, in a form satisfactory to the city attorney
and city council, and consistent with law, shall be required in conjunction with each large scale
master plan to ensure the property owner complies with the provisions applying to Subareas
1-3 of the zoning district; the Amended and Restated Master Development Agreement for
Jordan Bluffs Project; the large scale master plan, including specific approved plans and
elements establishing the character and design of the project area; and allowing the property
owner the right to develop in accordance with the approved plan for a period up to, but not

3
ORDINANCE NO. 2019-0-03 | Attachment A

exceeding, the term of the Amended and Restated Master Development Agreement for
Jordan Bluffs Project.

F. Subdivision Plats, Site Plans and Building Permits. Prior to any development occurring in a
pod, the applicant shall obtain ail applicable development permits as required in Chapter 17-3
and Title 16 of the Midvale Municipal Code. The review processes for these permits shall be
as set forth in Chapter 17-3 and Title 16. These development permits shall be consistent with
the approved large scale master plan, development agreement, this chapter and current
building code. Preliminary subdivision plats, final subdivision plats, preliminary site plans and
final site plans may be reviewed concurrently with the large scale master plan.

17-7-10.12.3 Uses.

Use Table. The following uses are allowed with the applicable development permit(s) in Jordan Bluffs
Subareas 1-3. If a use is not specifically designated, then it is prohibited. Uses designated with

asterisk (*) require specific additional standards included in Section 17-7-10-12.12 herein. Unless
otherwise specified, all buildings and uses shall comply with all city development requirements. The
size, location, appearance, and method of operation shall be specified to the extent necessary to
insure compliance with the requirements in this tite sss

Table 17-7-10.12.2
Uses

Use Type

Accessory Structure

Animal Clinic/Hospital

Assembly Hall

Assisted Living

Child Care

Data Center/Data Storage Facility

Disabled Care Facility

Dwellings:

4
ORDINANCE NO. 2019-0-03 | Attachment A

Townhomes (single-family attached units)

Condominiums

Multi-Family (stacked units)
Financial Institution:

W/o drive-up window

W/drive-up window”
Restaurant:

W/o drive-up window

5
ORDINANCE NO. 2019-0-03 | Attachment A

Use Type
Widrive-up window*
Retail and Service Commercial
W/o drive-up window
W/drive-up window*
Telecommunications Facility*, including wireless
Warehouse/Distribution/Flex
17-7-10.12.4 Large Scale Master Planned Development Submittal.
The purpose of the large scale master planned development for each pod shown on the concept plan
in Figure 1 of this Chapter is to provide an overview of the infrastructure and development layout for
the site to ensure it provides physical and functional integration of the site components to each other,
to the other Jordan Bluffs pod areas, and to the greater Midvale neighborhood areas, including design
features to assure appropriate transition of uses, building heights and schematics, multi-modal
transportation connection points, characteristics that encourage public pedestrian activity, convenience
and safety in and around the development. In lieu of the large scale master planned development
submittal requirements in Chapter 17-3 of the Midvale Municipal Code, the large scale master plan
Submittal shall consist of the fOOWIG: nmin

A. Awritten narrative and graphic exhibits explaining and showing the nature and character of
the development. This information shall include: total acreage broken down into the
approximate acreage of any phases, parcels, and specific land uses; scale/intensity of each
land use expressed in numbers (i.e. residential units/density, square footage of commercial
uses).

B. Amap of the existing site showing approximate site boundaries and dimensions, topography,
roads, public utilities, and other major infrastructure improvements, as well as existing
adjacent land uses and development.

C. A proposed site plan showing general location and size of ali buildings, setbacks, streets,
walkways, parking areas, general landscaping plans, plazas, gathering areas, and
recreational amenities. Site plans for pods adjacent to the park shall also show public
pedestrian access to the park and parking for the park as required by Section 17-7-10.12.5.H.

6
ORDINANCE NO. 2019-0-03 | Attachment A

D. A preliminary utilities master plan (including general location, size, capacity), grading, and
drainage plan.

E. A transportation plan showing road, bicycle and pedestrian networks to include a project
circulation system and connections to adjacent developments and larger circulation networks
in the city and region (including transit); and descriptions of internal streets, roads, alleys, and
pedestrian and bicycle facilities.

F. An analysis of the traffic impact of the project on existing and proposed streets (including
projected traffic counts).

G. A master parking plan for each pod. If the developer chooses to use parking from other pods
to offset the parking requirement on a subject pod, then the parking plan will include each pod
in its overall calculation(s). The master parking plan shall be based on the minimum parking
requirements found in Table 17-7-10.12.6 and may allow for reductions based on the
developer’s ability to show shared parking opportunities for uses within and between pods.

H. Architectural elevations showing architectural theming for each type of building including
building materials and architectural design precedents.

|. Thematic site design elements to be utilized. These elements include street trees, street
lighting, pedestrian scaled lighting, parking lot lighting, public furniture (including benches,
trash receptacles, bike racks, etc.), pedestrian crossings, and wayfinding signage.

J. Amaster sign plan with proposed project sign locations, sign designs, building sign envelopes
and other related features. The master sign plan may include wayfinding signs that provide
direction to points of interest within Jordan Bluffs and adjacent areas These signs shall be
designed to reflect the thematic site and architectural design of the area with the specific sign
details and locations approved by the community development director.

K. A preliminary development schedule and proposed phasing plan.

L. Such other information as the community development director deems necessary to

nu. determine whether the application complies with the standards adopted in this chapter.

17-7-10.12.5 Development Requirements. oo ccssumnuinnmnnninininninnniinnininiinnnnnnneianninin

A. Development requirements for Jordan Bluffs Subareas 1-3 shall include, without limitation, the
standards set forth in this title, Midvale Municipal Code Title 16 (Subdivisions), Midvale City
Construction Specifications, APWA Standard Plans and Standard Specifications, Fire Code,
Building Code, Institutional Controls set forth in Chapter 8.10 of the Midvale Municipal Code,

7
ORDINANCE NO. 2019-O-03 | Attachment A

the adopted 2017 Site Management Plan for the Former Sharon Steel Superfund Site, and the
2004 Jordan Bluffs Site Modification Plan.

B. Protection and Enhancement of Wetlands. The applicant shall protect and enhance the
wetland/drainage area near the southeast corner of Subarea 3. Development surrounding the
wetland/drainage area shall be designed to use this area as an amenity.

C. Slope Area. Except for areas designated for solar energy production on the large scale master
plan or trails for pedestrian connections to the Jordan River Parkway,, sloped areas along
7800 South and the Jordan River shall be planted and/or hydroseeded with vegetation from
the approved Sharon Steel Plant List in the Site Management Plan.

D. Public Road Improvements. The applicant shall provide the following public road
mmadfprovements. All public roads shall be constructed to the City Construction Specifications.
1. interior Roads (including the extension of Ivy Drive west of Bingham Junction

Boulevard). Interior collector roads, including the extension of Ivy Drive west of
Bingham Junction Boulevard, shall be designed and constructed to accommodate the
development for which it serves as determined by the city engineer. Roads shall be
aligned to create four-way intersections or offset in accordance with engineering
standards and based on expected traffic volumes as determined by the city engineer.
Roads shall be constructed with a public right-of-way of a minimum half-width to
accommodate a ten and a half (10.5) foot traffic lane, five (5) foot bike lane (not
including gutter pan), six (6) foot sidewalk, five (5) foot planter, and curb and gutter;
and turn lanes as required by the city engineer. On-street parking will require
additional right-of-way width in accordance with engineering standards. All turning
radii, circulation and pavement cross sections are subject to approval by the city
engineer and fire marshal. If lvy Drive west of Bingham Junction Boulevard includes
retail uses adjacent to the road, the planter area shall be replaced with sidewalk and
tree grates for required street trees.

2. 7800 South Right-of-Way Improvements. Curb, gutter, sidewalk and landscape
improvements along the south side of 7800 South are required. The applicant shall
construct and install these improvements as part of the adjacent development project.

3. Main Street/700 West Right-of-Way Improvements. Curb, gutter, and sidewalk
improvements along the Main Street property frontage are required. The applicant
shall construct and install these improvements as part of the adjacent development
project. These improvements shall match and tie into the right-of-way improvements

8
ORDINANCE NO. 2019-O0-03 | Attachment A

to the north with the necessary right-of-way property dedicated to Midvale City for
vont SE IMPFOVEMEMS a snsmmminmiminaninnueninnnnninaniinninnnnninnnnne

E. Private Road Improvements. Projects may have interior private roads. The minimum right-of-
way width must accommodate the pavement width required by the Fire Code and curb, gutter
and five (5) foot wide sidewalks on both sides. Additional right-of-way width is required for on-
street parking or bike lanes.

F. Street Frontage Tree Requirements. At least one (1) street tree shall be planted for each forty
lineal (40) feet of frontage along all public and private roads. Street frontage trees may be
clustered or spaced linearly in the planter between the sidewalk and curb or within ten (10)
feet of the inside edge of the sidewalk if there is not a planter area. Street tree species shall
comply with the thematic site design plan.

G. Pedestrian Connections. Walkways of at least five (5) feet in width shall be incorporated within
and between developments. Where walkways cross roads, driveways, or drive aisles,
stamped concrete or asphalt, or other distinguishable material, shall be used to construct
crosswalks. The applicant shall provide pedestrian connections to the Jordan River Parkway
Trail, 7800 South, Main Street/700 West, and other public amenity areas.

H. Public Access and Parking for Park Required. Public access and parking for park users are
required in the pods adjacent to the park. The community development director may allow
multiple pods to utilize the same public access and parking where the applicant
demonstrates the plan provides for adequate public accessibility and parking for the

|. Landscaped Setback from Roads. The following landscaped setbacks are required along all
roads. No buildings, structures, fencing, or parking shall be allowed within these landscaped
setbacks unless specifically noted. Building overhangs, cantilevers, pop-outs and other above
ground architectural features attached to a building may project into a landscape setback up
to three (3) feet. At grade patios may extend into a thirty (30) foot landscaped setback up to
eight (8) feet. Setbacks shall be measured from the edge of the public or private road or right-
of-way:

Bingham Junction Blvd.
9
ORDINANCE NO. 2019-O-03 | Attachment A

West Ivy Drive (west of Bingham 15 minimum adjacent to

Junction Blvd. intersection) parking lot; no setback
required, except as required by
Building Code, for other uses
See subsection L below

J. Building Height. For purposes of defining the maximum structure height, refer to Figure 1 of
this Chapter. The maximum building height allowed for structures in “Pod A”, “Pod “B”, and
“Pod C” is eighty (80) feet measured to the highest parapet or the midpoint of a sloped roof.
The maximum building height allowed for all other pods is one hundred eighty (180) feet
measured to the highest parapet or the midpoint of a sloped roof.

K. Utilities. All utilities within the proposed development shall be buried. Power lines serving a
data center use may be located above ground.

L. Buildings Along West Ivy Drive. At least fifty (50) percent of the front elevations of buildings
along West Ivy Drive in Pods “G”, “H’, “l’, and “L” are required to be built within five (5) feet of
the build-to line oriented to a road, with building and unit entrances opening directly onto the
adjacent public sidewalk. Such build-to line will be established with the large scale master
plan for such pod.

M. Institutional Controls. Due to the environmental history of the Jordan Bluffs area and the
limitations of the capped portions of the Jordan Bluffs site, all new development, including wet
utilities and landscaped areas, shall be installed as regulated by this title, the Institutional
Controls set forth in Chapter 8.10 of the Midvale Municipal Code, and the adopted Site
Management Plan (2017) and Site Modification Plan (2004). All development shall continue to
be maintained in accordance with these standards.

17-7-10.12.6 Parking and Access Standards.
Off-street parking, on-street parking and development access shall meet the following standards:

A. Parking Ratio Requirements. Required parking shall meet the following minimum standards or
shall be consistent with the approved master parking plan included in the associated large

10
ORDINANCE NO. 2019-0-03 | Attachment A

scale master plan. Required parking stalls shall be calculated based on the total required for
the square footage of each use within a structure. The minimum parking requirements found
in Table 17-7-10.12.6 may be reduced by the Community Development Director based on a
parking study obtained by the developer and verified by the City showing how on-street
parking or other parking strategies reduce the parking need. If the required parking ratio for a
particular use is unclear, the most current edition of the ITE manual of parking generation
rates shall be used.
Table 17-7-10.12.6
Parking
Assembly Hall/Auditorium 1 per 5 seats or 3 per 100 s.f. of assembly area
Assisted Living/Disabled Care 1 per 2 bedrooms plus 1 per employee per
shift, or 2 per 3 employees per shift, whichever
is greater
Data Center Storage 0.25 stalls per 1,000 s.f. of floor area
Dwellings:
Multi-Family*
Studio and 1 Bedroom units 1.5 stalls per unit plus guest parking
2 Bedroom units 1.75 stalls per unit plus guest parking
3+ Bedroom units 2.0 stalls per unit plus guest parking
Townhomes 2.0 stalls per unit plus guest parking
Senior (age restricted) affordable housing 0.5 per unit
Guest parking** 1.0 stall per 4 units
Entertainment Center 1 per 4 seats or 5 per 1,000 sf. of floor area
depending on type of facility
Financial Institution 3 per 1,000 s.f. of net leasabie building area
Manufacturing/Assembly/Warehouse/Distribution | 1 per 1,000 s.f. of net leasable building area
11
ORDINANCE NO. 2019-O0-03 | Attachment A

Municipal Facilities Based on type of use
Office:
General 3 per 1,000 s.f. of net leasable building area
Intense 5 per 1,000 s.f. of net leasable building area
Park (required in pods adjacent to park) Number of parking spaces determined by
community development director at site plan
review and based on number and type of
adjacent park amenities.
Recreation Facility, Commercial Greater of: 1 per 4 seats; 5 per 1,000 s.f. of
floor area; or 1 per 3 persons rated capacity
Religious/Educational Institution Greater of: 1 per 5 seats, 2 per 3 employees, or
1 per 1,000 s.f. of floor area
Residential Facility for Elderly Persons/ Persons | Greater of: 1 per 2 bedrooms plus 1 per
with a Disability employee per shift or 2 per 3 employees per
shift
Retail and Service Commercial 3 per 1,000 s.f. of net leasable building area

* The parking requirement for affordable units shall be reduced by twenty (20) percent.
Units eligible for this reduction must be units restricted to households making sixty
(60) percent of the area median income (AMI) or less and must be rent restricted at
that level for not less than fifty (50) years. This reduction does not apply to required
guest parking. The applicant shall provide documentation assuring the affordable
units.

** In residential developments, private driveways can be counted towards the required
guest parking if the driveways have a minimum depth of eighteen (18) feet. Guest
parking shall be distributed across each residential site based on the required guest
parking ratio.

B. Driveway Widths and Parking Standards. The following driveway width dimensions and
parking standards apply to all new development. The city engineer may approve minor
variations (equal to or less than ten (10) percent) in driveway width and spacing.

12
ORDINANCE NO. 2019-O-03 | Attachment A

1. Parking Area Landscaping. No parking is allowed within required landscape
setbacks. Parking areas with more than twenty (20) stalls shall provide at least fifteen
(15) percent interior landscaping. The location of the landscaping is flexible, but shall
be designed and located to facilitate safe vehicular and pedestrian circulation through
the parking area to destinations, and efficient storm water detention. Paved walkways
may be provided through landscape areas and will count towards the required
percentage.

2. Driveway Standards. For all new development, driveways shall comply with the
following standards:

a. All driveways shall be of sufficient width to accommodate the expected traffic
utilizing the driveway, not to exceed thirty (30) feet in width at the lot
frontage. In locations where uses include large truck traffic, the city engineer
may allow the driveway width to exceed thirty (30) feet provided the applicant
shows that it is not adequate to accommodate the expected traffic and the
minimum width required to do so.

b. Driveways providing access to parking facilities and private residences shall
have the following dimensions (unless otherwise required by the fire code):

i. Nonresidential Uses: When fire apparatus access is required,
the minimum driveway width shall be twenty (20) feet for one-
way traffic and twenty-six (26) feet for two-way traffic. Otherwise
the minimum driveway width for a one-way driveway shall be
fourteen (14) feet and twenty-four (24) feet for two-way traffic.
Where one-way drives exist, directional signs and arrows shall
be provided.

ii. Residential Uses (accessing multiple units): The minimum
driveway width shall be twenty (20) feet of drivable surface.
Where the length of a dead-end drive exceeds one-hundred fifty
(150) feet, an approved fire apparatus turn-around shall be
provided. Where alley loaded garages are to be constructed the
driveway aprons accessing the private garages shall be a
maximum of five (5) feet; if parking is allowed the driveway
length shall be a minimum of eighteen (18) feet.

13
ORDINANCE NO. 2019-O0-03 | Attachment A
