ORDINANCE NO. 2020-0-11
AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING TEMPORARY LAND USE
REGULATIONS REGARDING ALLOWED MULTI-FAMILY USES IN
THE SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONE (SF-1) AND SINGLE
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONE (SF-2).

WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated Section 10-9a-504, Midvale City (“the
City”) may, without prior consideration of or recommendation from the planning commission,
enact an ordinance establishing a temporary land use regulation for any part or all of the area
within the municipality if the City Council makes a finding of compelling, countervailing public
interest; and

WHEREAS, Chapters 17-7-1 and 17-7-2 of the Midvale City Municipal Code (“the
Code”) establish the Single Family Residential (“SF-1”) and Single Family Residential (“SF-2”)
Zones with goals to “maintain existing, predominately single family detached residential
neighborhoods where a wide range of residential amenities are available in an environment
conducive to meeting a variety of social and economic needs,” “allow for the continuation of low
density residential neighborhood,” “allow for single family development that is compatible with
existing development,” and “maintain the character of neighborhoods with compatible residential
design”; and

WHEREAS, the SF-1 and SF-2 Zones currently allow for multi-family uses granted as
incentives as part of a Master Planned Development Design; and

WHEREAS, allowing multi-family uses developments to occur in the Single Family
Residential SF-1 and SF-2 Zones is contrary to the goal of the zones to maintain existing,
predominately single family detached residential neighborhoods, allow for single family
development that is compatible with existing development, and maintain the character of
neighborhoods with compatible residential design; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to limit development to uses that meet the goals
and purpose of the SF-1 and SF-2 Zones.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah
as follows:

Section 1. Finding of compelling, countervailing public interest.

A. The allowed uses of multi-family development incentives for Master Planned
Development design in the single family residential zones could lead to projects
that are fundamentally incompatible with the purpose of the SF-1 and SF-2 Zones
because of they may change the nature and characteristics of existing single
family neighborhoods which are to be predominately single family detached

Ordinance 2020-O-11 Page | of 2

residential neighborhoods.
B. The foregoing constitutes a compelling, countervailing public interest which
justifies the temporary land use regulation set forth in the Section 3 below.

Section 2. Balancing of Public vs. Private Interests. The City Council finds that the
effect of this temporary land use regulation on owners of private property, whose applications for
development projects have not yet vested or who might submit applications for multi-family
master planned development projects under the SF-1 and SF-2 Zones after the ordinance’s
adoption, is outweighed by the public interest in maintaining the desired character of
neighborhoods in the SF-1 and SF-2 Zones within Midvale City.

Section 3. Temporary Zoning Regulation. From the effective date of this ordinance and
during the period of this temporary land use regulation, sections 17-7-1.10 (D)(2) and 17-7-2.10
(D)(2) “Allow multi-family uses if the proposed design is compatible with adjacent single family
uses” are repealed from the Code.

All other master planned development requirements and incentives in the SF-1 and SF-2 Zones
shall remain in effect as currently adopted.

Section 4. Duration. This temporary land use regulation shall remain in effect for a
period of six (6) months from the effective date of this ordinance or until the effective date of a
City Council action adopting revisions to the Single Family Residential (“SF-1”) Zone and
Single Family Residential (““SF-2”) Zone in Chapters 17-7-1 and 17-7-2 of the Code, whichever
occurs first.

Section 5. Effective date. This ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
passage.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 21" day of July 2020

o\t Y STA Ne
Sf Robert Hale, Mayor
s(—— } =
ATTEST: : veri, hy! Voting by City Council “Aye” “Nay”
yy, Reo “4 Ky, Quinn Sperry ye aa

. RAT Paul Glover aol
AVu_ xX SONAL Heidi Robinson ua
Rori! Andreason; C Bryant Brown ca ee
City Recorder Dustin Gettel —

Date of first publication: July 26, 2020
Ordinance 2020-O-11 Page 2 of 2
