MIDVALE CITY
ORDINANCE NO. 2020-0-01
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING MIDVALE CITY CODE CHAPTERS 5.04, 7.01, 7.02,
7.03, AND SECTION 17-3-14 TO STANDARDIZE THE CITY’S ADMINISTRATIVE
APPEALS PROCESSES.

WHEREAS, as authorized by Utah Code Ann. § 10-8-84, the City Council is
authorized to exercise general police powers that are “necessary and proper to provide for
the safety and preserve the health, and promote the prosperity, improve the morals, peace
and good order, comfort, and convenience of the city and its inhabitants, and for the
protection of property in the city;” and

WHEREAS, as part of its police powers, the City issues business licenses, enforces
basic neighborhood health and safety standards, and implements and enforces land use
ordinances; and

WHEREAS, the exercise of these powers requires due process under the United
States and Utah constitutions; and

WHEREAS, Midvale Municipal Code Chapters 5.04, 7.01, 7.02, 7.03, and Section
17-3-14 provide the procedures for due process as they relate to business licensing, code
enforcement, and planning and zoning; and

WHEREAS, the City desires to ensure due process by providing simple and clear
processes and standards for appeals;

WHEREAS, the City desires to standardize these processes to provide more
equitable treatment and outcomes, encourage simplification and clarity, and improve the
protection of the City and its residents.

Now, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah
as follows:

Section 1. The City Council desires to amend Midvale Municipal Code
Chapters 5.04, 7.01, 7.02, 7.03, and Section 17-3-14 as set forth in Exhibit A.

Section 2. A violation of this ordinance includes the possibility of
imprisonment. As such, Midvale City is required, under Utah Code Ann. §78B-22-301, to
provide for indigent legal defense, as that term is defined under Utah Code Ann. §78B-
22-102.

Section 3. This ordinance shall be effective upon date of first publication.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 21* day of January, 2020.
MIDVALE CJTY P
Mayor Robert M. Hale
[SEAL] VOTING:
At STATS
TF 4 en Bryant Brown Yea _u~ Nay
= SNCORPORATED YS, Dustin Gettel Yea _e— Nay
s{ —-— } = Paul Glover Yea_ - Nay
we Uy 1,19 J * Heidi Robinson Yea_ve-=_ Nay
cb. ay Quinn Sperry Yea_— Nay____
SoRATE
ATTEST: |
‘ L. Andreason, ul
City Recorder
Published this day nung 2020

Chapter 5.04
DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF A LICENSE
Sections:
5.04.010 Denial of business license or alcoholic beverage license.
5.04.020 Reasons for suspension or revocation.
5.04.030 Enforcement.
| 5.04.040 Hearing examinerofficer—Appointment and powers.
5.04.050 Procedure for denial, suspension or revocation.
5.04.060 Hearing.
5.04.065 _ Failure to attend hearing.
5.04.070 Decision of the hearing officer.
5.04.080 Appeal of hearing officer decision.
5.04.090 Licensing after revocation.
5.04.100 Validity of business license or alcoholic beverage license during appeal.
5.04.110 | Business owner responsible for concessionaire.
5.04.010 Denial of business license or alcoholic beverage license.
After a person has made application to the city for a business license or alcoholic beverage license, the application
shall be denied if any of the following criteria apply:
A. — The applicant does not meet the qualifications for a licensee as provided under this title.
B. For anew application, nonpayment of a returned check for the required license fees, fines and/or penalties at
the time the application is made. For a business license renewal application, nonpayment of the required license
fees, fines and/or penalties if applicable under Section 5.02.100.
C. One of the reviewing departments or divisions of the city provided for in this title has disapproved the
application pursuant to any applicable provision of the city code.
D. _ False or incomplete information given on the application.
E. _ The licensee is not complying with a requirement or condition set by the planning commission or planning
and zoning division, if applicable, under a conditional use permit or administrative conditional use permit; if
applicable, granting a variance; by the city council or board of adjustment; or by agreement.
F. | Noncompliance with any city, state or federal statutes or any health department regulations governing the
applicant’s proposed business.
G. _ Any other reason expressly provided for in this title. (Ord. 2014-10 § 1 (Exh. A) (part): Ord. 10/28/20030-12
(part), 2003: Ord. 12-09-97G (part), 1997)
5.04.020 Reasons for suspension or revocation.
An existing business license or alcoholic beverage license shall be suspended or revoked if any of the following
criteria apply:
A. — The licensee does not now meet the qualifications for a licensee as provided under this title;
B. False or incomplete information was given on an application;
C. Violation of any provision of this title by the licensee;
D. Violation of any other law by the licensee committed while acting in the licensee’s business capacity;
E. The licensee has obtained or aided another person to obtain a license by fraud or deceit;

F. The licensee has failed to file the appropriate documents with the State Tax Commission distributing the local
portion of sales tax to Midvale City;
G. _ The licensee has refused authorized representatives of the city to make an inspection or has interfered with |
such representatives while in the performance of their duty in making such inspection;
H. The licensee is not complying with a requirement or condition set by the planning commission or planning
and zoning division, if applicable, under a conditional use permit or administrative conditional use permit; if
applicable, granting a variance or special exception; by the city council or board of adjustment; or by agreement;
I. Violation of this title by an agent, independent contractor, or employee of a licensee;
J. Violations of any other laws by an agent, independent contractor, or employee committed while acting as an
agent, independent contractor, or employee of the licensee; or
K. — Any other reason expressly provided for in this title.
For purposes of subsections (D) and (J) of this section, a violation of a law by a licensee, agent, independent
contractor, or employee at the licensee’s place of business is presumed to have occurred while the individual was
acting in the licensee’s business capacity or acting as an agent, independent contractor, or employee of the licensee.
(Ord. 2018-08 § 1 (Exh. A) (part): Ord. 2014-10 § 1 (Exh. A) (part): Ord. 10/28/20030-12 (part), 2003: Ord.
12-09-97G (part), 1997)
5.04.030 Enforcement.
A. — The license administrator shall have the authority, without a hearing, to deny a license for the reasons
provided for in this chapter.
B. — The license administrator shall have the authority to suspend or revoke a license without a hearing, for reasons
provided for in this chapter. However, the suspension or revocation shall not take effect until the time period for
appealing the decision as set forth in this chapter below has passed.
C. — The license administrator may, on his or her own initiative or in response to complaints from the general
public or any city department or division, investigate and gather evidence of violations of this title or other
circumstances which may give rise to a denial, suspension or revocation. (Ord. 2014-10 § 1 (Exh. A) (part): Ord.
10/28/20030-12 (part), 2003: Ord. 12-09-97G (part), 1997)
5.04.040 Hearing examinerofficer—A ppointment and powers.
A hearing officer shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the city council. The hearing
officer shall have authority to hear and decide business license matters referred to the officer and, after such hearing,
shall submit their decision in writing to the office ofthe city-administratercity and the applicant/licensee who
requested the hearing. (Ord. 2014-10 § 1 (Exh. A) (part): Ord. 10/28/20030-12 (part), 2003: Ord. 12-09-97G (part),
1997)
5.04.050 Procedure for denial, suspension or revocation.
A. — Inthe event of a denial, suspension or revocation, the license administrator shall notify the applicant/licensee
by letter sent certified mail within two days of the decision to deny, suspend or revoke.
B. The notification letter shall include the following information:

1. | Name of applicant/licensee;

2. Reason for denial/suspension/revocation including indication of city, state or federal law violated;

3. Explanation of right of applicant/licensee to appeal the decision of the license administrator;

4. Time frames and process for appeal;

|
5. Indication that if the applicant/licensee chooses not to appeal within the specific time frame, the decision
of the license administrator shall be considered final and the applicant licensee will be expected to comply |
immediately; and |
6. Rights of applicant/licensee during pending appeal.
| C. The applicant/licensee shall have the right to appeal the decision of the license administrator to the Heense-
hearing officer.
D. Said An appeal shalt must be in writing and submitted to the director of the community and economic
development department within f#een-ten calendar days of the date of mailing of the certified letter notifying the |
applicant/licensee of the denial/suspension/revocation. |
E. Said appeal shall contain the following information:
1. | Name of applicant/licensee;
2. __ Address of applicant/licensee; |
3. ___ Telephone number of the applicant/licensee:
|
4. __Intent to be represented by legal counsel;
' 25. Acomprehensive statement of the reasons for the appeal, including the specific provisions of law that |
are alleged to be violated by the action taken. Set forthwith specificity the reasens_for which the appealis- |
fabents |
|
appeat-(Ord. 2014-10 § 1 (Exh. A) (part): Ord. 10/28/20030-12 (part), 2003: Ord. 12-09-97G (part), 1997) |
|
5.04.060 Hearing. |
A. — The hearing shall be at a time, place and day set by the hearing officer—but netater than seven-working -days- }
6 ‘esate er 1 |
B. At the hearing, the-hearing-officer-era representative from the city atterneys-office- shall present the reasons |
for the decision to deny, suspend or revoke the license.
| C. The applicant/-erlicensee, in person or through his or her attorney, may then present any evidence showing
reason why the decision was in error.
D. All witnesses shall be sworn to testify truthfully. Either party is entitled to confront and cross-examine any
witnesses.
E. — Any oral or documented evidence may be received, but the hearing officer shall exclude all privileged,
irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence.
F.___ The city shall bear the burden of proof to establish the existence of a violation of this title. Such proof shall be
established by the preponderance of the evidence.
FG. _ Ifthe denial, suspension, or revocation appealed from is based on a finding by the building division,
planning and zoning division, fire department, health department or police department that the business was or
would be in violation of their applicable ordinances or regulations, and the division or department in question has
fulfilled the procedural requirements in all applicable ordinances, statutes and rules prior to making such finding,
then that finding shall be conclusive on the hearing officer, and the officer’s decision may be based only on whether
the license was properly denied, suspended, or revoked because of the building division’s, planning and zoning
division’s, fire department’s, health department’s or police department’s finding.

|

,

2-—-Reverse the decision if the hearing officer finds that the police department did net act properly te-deny_ Rye e he-deci ion he-hearins-office RG ta he-pelce-departmen did-ne act prope 0-GECH

suspend or revoke the- police LD--card-based-on the factual determinations of the police department but held BeCRG-O FEeYOrce he-pelee 1 -wand-nesed OF He acta determination =, Re pelce-departmen Ou RO ‘.

counsel Hie.

|
H. _ Ifthe denial, suspension, or revocation appealed from is based on a determination by the license administrator
that grounds existed pursuant to this code, the hearing officer may examine the factual nature of the grounds and

determine whether such grounds are sufficient to sustain the decision of the license administrator.
I. The Heense-hearing officer does not have the authority to waive compliance with applicable provisions of the
business license ordinances, nor can the hearing officer extend deadlines set forth in the ordinances or change the
substance or form of the ordinances. (Ord. 2014-10 § 1 (Exh. A) (part): Ord. 10/28/20030-12 (part), 2003: Ord.
12-09-97G (part), 1997)
5.04.065 Failure to attend hearing.
If proper notice of the hearing was provided, an applicant or licensee who fails to appear at a hearing shall be
deemed to have waived the right to such hearing, the adjudication of issues related to the hearing, and the right to
appeal.
5.04.070 Decision of the hearing officer.
| The hearing officer, after hearing all the evidence, shall announce its decision within seven-thirty days from the date

of hearing. The hearing officer may affirm or reverse the decision of the license administrator. The decision shall be
in writing and shall be based only upon findings of fact. The hearing officer may designate that the prevailing party |
draft the findings of fact and order. If the prevailing party drafts the findings of fact and order, the opposing party
shall have five days from the day the draft is submitted within which to file objections to the draft. Upon resolution
of all objections to the draft, the hearing officer shall release the findings of fact and order. (Ord. 2014-10 § 1 (Exh.
A) (part): Ord. 10/28/20030-12 (part), 2003: Ord. 12-09-97G (part), 1997)

5.04.080 Appeal of hearing officer decision.
A. ___Any decision of the Hicense-hearing officer may be appealed by the applicant/-licensee or the city to the district
eourtThird District Court of Salt Lake County within thirty days from when the written decision is made. Any
appeal made after 30 days is barred and the hearing officer’s decision will be considered final.
B. The appellant may only allege that the hearing officer’s decision was arbitrary and capricious. |
C.___ The district court shall:
1. Presume that the hearing officer’s decision is valid; i"

2. Review the record to determine whether the order was arbitrary or capricious; and i

3.___ Affirm the hearing officer’s decision if it is supported by evidence.

|

D.___If appealed, the record of the proceedings including minutes, findings, orders, and, if available, a true and i
correct recording of the proceeding will be submitted to the reviewing court within thirty days of the notice of |
appeal.
E.___If there is a record, the court review is limited to the record of the proceeding. The court may not accept or '
consider any evidence outside such record unless the evidence was offered to the hearing officer and the court
determines it was improperly excluded by the hearing officer. The court may call witnesses and take evidence if |
there is no record. (Ord. 2014-10 § 1 (Exh. A) (part): Ord. 10/28/20030-12 (part), 2003: Ord. 12-09-97G (part), i
. 1997) j
j

5.04.090 Licensing after revocation.
A person whose license has been revoked may not be issued a license for a period of twelve months after the
revocation. (Ord. 2014-10 § 1 (Exh. A) (part): Ord. 10/28/20030-12 (part), 2003: Ord. 12-09-97G (part), 1997) |
5.04.100 Validity of business license or alcoholic beverage license during appeal.
| A. _Fhroughoutthe-appeal-process-as-outlined-abeveP ending an appeal to the hearing officer, a licensee holding a ;
suspended or revoked business or alcoholic beverage license may continue to operate his or her business in
accordance with federal, state and local laws pending final decision on the appeal-erantitthe-timeterappeathas-
B. Pending an appeal to district court, the written decision of the hearing officer will stand unless and until the |
district court stays the written decision pending review. (Ord. 2014-10 § 1 (Exh. A) (part): Ord. 10/28/ 20030-12
(part), 2003: Ord. 12-09-97G (part), 1997)
5.04.110 Business owner responsible for concessionaire.
For the purposes of business or premises owners who contract out the sale of alcoholic beverages on the business
premises to an independent concessionaire, violation by such concessionaire of any provision of this title shall

constitute grounds for suspension and/or revocation of the license of business or premises owner. (Ord. 2014-10 § 1

(Exh. A) (part): Ord. 10/28/20030-12 (part), 2003: Ord. 12-09-97G (part), 1997) |
4

Chapter 7.01

ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM
Sections:
7.01.010 — Short title.
7.01.020 Purpose.
7.01.030 Scope.
7.01.040 Existing law continued.
7.01.050 Criminal prosecution right.
7.01.060 Effect of headings.
7.01.070 Severability.
7.01.080 — Civil liability.
7.01.090 General rules of interpretation.
7.01.100 Definitions applicable to title generally.
7.01.110 Acts include causing, aiding, and abetting.
7.01.120 Service of notice requirements.
7.01.130 General enforcement authority.
7.01.140 Adoption of policy and procedures.
7.01.150 Authority to inspect.
7.01.160 False information or refusal prohibited.
7.01.170 Failure to obey a subpoena.
7.01.010 Short title.
This title shall be known as the “administrative code enforcement” or “ACE” program. This title shall also be known
as Title 7 of the Midvale Municipal Code. It may be cited and pleaded under either designation. (Ord. 8/27/2002A
(part), 2002)
7.01.020 Purpose.
The city council finds that the enforcement of the Midvale Municipal Code and applicable state codes is an
important public activity. Code enforcement is vital to the protection of the public’s health, safety, welfare, and
quality of life. The city council recognizes that code enforcement is effective only when done quickly and fairly.
The city council further finds that an enforcement system that allows a combination of judicial and administrative
remedies is effective in correcting violations. (Ord. 8/27/2002A (part), 2002)
7.01.030 Scope.
The provisions of this title may be applied to all violations of the Midvale Municipal Code or applicable state codes
which occur within Midvale City limits and such territory outside Midvale City limits over which the city has
jurisdiction or control by virtue of any constitutional provision or law. This title establishes an additional remedy
that may be used by the city to achieve compliance with applicable codes. (Ord. 8/27/2002A (part), 2002)
7.01.040 Existing law continued.
The provisions of this title shall not invalidate any other title, chapter, or ordinance of the Midvale Municipal Code
but shall be read in conjunction with those titles, chapters, and ordinances and shall be used as an additional remedy
for enforcement of violations thereof. (Ord. 8/27/2002A (part), 2002)
7.01.050 Criminal prosecution right.
The city shall have sole discretion in deciding whether to file a civil or criminal judicial case or pursue an
administrative enforcement action for the violation of any of its ordinances or applicable code requirements. The
enactment of this title shall not be construed to limit the city’s right to prosecute any violation as a criminal offense.
If the city chooses to file both administrative actions and criminal charges for the same violation, no civil fees shall
be assessed in the administrative action, but all other remedies contained herein shall be available. (Ord. 8/27/2002A
(part), 2002)

7.01.060 Effect of headings.

Title, chapter, and section headings contained herein shall not be deemed to govern, limit, modify, or in any manner
affect the scope, meaning, or intent of the provisions of this title. (Ord. 8/27/2002A (part), 2002)

7.01.070 Severability.

If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, portion, or provision of this title is, for any reason, held to be
invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this title. The city council hereby declares that it would have adopted this title
and each section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, portion, or provision thereof, irrespective of the fact that any
one or more sections, subsections, clauses, phrases, portions, or provisions be declared invalid or unconstitutional.
This section shall apply to all amendments made to this title. (Ord. 8/27/2002A (part), 2002)

7.01.080 Civil liability.

By establishing performance standards or by establishing obligations to act, it is the intent of the city council that
Midvale City employees and officers are exercising discretionary authority in pursuit of an essential governmental
function and that any such standards or obligations shall not be construed as creating a ministerial duty for purposes
of tort liability. (Ord. 8/27/2002A (part), 2002)

7.01.090 General rules of interpretation.

For purposes of this title:

A. “Shall” is mandatory; “may” is permissive.

B. — Unless otherwise specified, the terms “hereof,” “herein,” and similar terms refer to this title as a whole. (Ord.
8/27/2002A (part), 2002)

7.01.100 Definitions applicable to title generally.

In the construction of this title, the following words and phrases shall be as defined as set forth in this section unless
a different meaning is specifically defined elsewhere in this title and specifically stated to apply:

A. “Administrative citation” means a citation issued to a responsible person which gives reasonable notice of a
violation and the civil fee for such violation.

B. “Administrative enforcement order” means an order issued by a hearing examiner. The order may include an
order to abate the violation, pay civil fees and administrative costs, or any other action as authorized or required by
this title and applicable state codes.

C. “Administrative enforcement hearing” means a hearing held pursuant to the procedures established by this
title and at the request of a responsible person charged with a violation.

D. “City” means the city of Midvale, Utah, including the mayor, city administrator, and all other employees of
the city, excepting employees of the court.

E. “City council” means the city council of Midvale City.

F. “Director” means the community and economic development department director or his/her designee.

G. “Enforcement official” means any person authorized by the city to enforce violations of the Midvale
Municipal Code or applicable state codes including, but not limited to, zoning officers, police officers, building
inspection officials, code enforcement officers, fire marshal, fire officers and animal control officers.

H. “Hearing examiner” means a person appointed by the mayor or her designee to preside over administrative
enforcement hearings.

I. “Imminent life safety hazard” means any condition that creates a serious and immediate danger to life,
property, health, or public safety.

J. | “Mayor” means the mayor of Midvale City.

K. “Notice of compliance” means a document or form approved by the community and economic development
department director or designee which indicates that a property complies with the requirements set forth in a notice
of violation.
L. “Notice of emergency abatement” means a written notice that informs a responsible person of emergency
abatement actions taken by the city and the costs of those actions, and orders payment for those costs.
M. “Notice of itemized bill for costs” means a written notice, itemizing the city’s costs and ordering payment of
those costs.
N. “Notice of violation” means a written notice that informs a responsible person of code violations and orders
certain remedial steps to correct said violations.
O. “Person” means any natural person, firm, joint venture, joint stock company, partnership, association, club,
company, corporation, business trust, organization, or the manager, lessee, agent, sergeant, officer, or employee of
any of them, or any other entity that is recognized by law as the subject of rights or duties.
P. “Property owner” means the record owner of real property as shown on the records of the Salt Lake County
assessor/recorder.
Q. “Responsible person” means the person(s) determined by the city who is responsible for causing or
maintaining a violation of the Midvale Municipal Code or applicable state codes. The term “responsible person”
shall include, but is not limited to, a property owner, agent, tenant, lessee, occupant, architect, builder, contractor, or
other person who individually or together with another person is responsible for the violation of any provision of the
Midvale Municipal Code or applicable state codes.
R. “Written” includes handwritten, typewritten, photocopied, computer printed, or facsimile. (Ord. 8/27/2002A
(part), 2002)
7.01.110 Acts include causing, aiding, and abetting.
Whenever any act or omission is made unlawful in this title, it shall include causing, permitting, aiding, or abetting
such act or omission. (Ord. 8/27/2002A (part), 2002)
7.01.120 Service of notice requirements.
A. | Whenever a notice is required to be given under this title, the notice shall be served by one of the following
methods, unless different provisions are otherwise specifically stated to apply:

1. Personal service;

2. Regular mail, postage prepaid, to the last known address of a responsible person;

3. Posting the notice conspicuously on or in front of the property. The form of the posted notice shall be

approved by the director; or

4. Published in a newspaper of general circulation.
B. Failure of a responsible person to actually receive notice shall not affect the validity of any action taken
hereunder if notice has been served in the manner set forth above.
C. Service by regular mail in the manner set forth above shall be deemed served on the sevenththird day after the
date of mailing when mailed in the centinental United StatesState of Utah. Service by regular mail to all other
addresses shall be deemed served on the tenth-seventh day after the date of mailing.
D. _ The failure of a person, other than a responsible person, to be served notice in accordance with this section
shall not affect the validity of any proceeding taken hereunder. (Ord. 8/27/2002A (part), 2002)

7.01.130 General enforcement authority.

Whenever an enforcement official finds that violation of the Midvale Municipal Code or applicable state codes has
occurred or continues to exist, he may undertake any of the procedures herein. The director or any designated
enforcement official shall have the authority to gain compliance with the provisions of the Midvale Municipal Code
and applicable state codes subject to the provisions of this title. Such authority shall include the power to issue
notices of violation and administrative citations, inspect public and private property, abate nuisances on public and
private property, and to use any remedy available under this title or law. (Ord. 8/27/2002A (part), 2002)

7.01.140 Adoption of policy and procedures.

The mayor shall establish policies and procedures for the holding of administrative enforcement hearings, the
appointment of hearing examiners, and the use of the administrative procedures herein by enforcement officials.
(Ord. 8/27/2002A (part), 2002)

7.01.150 Authority to inspect.

Enforcement officials are hereby authorized, in accordance with applicable law, to enter upon any property or
premises to ascertain whether the provisions of the Midvale Municipal Code or applicable state codes are being
obeyed and to make any reasonable, lawful examination or survey necessary to determine compliance with the
Midvale Municipal Code or applicable state codes. This may include the taking of photographs, samples, or other
physical evidence. All inspections, entries, examinations, and surveys shall be done in a reasonable manner. If a
property owner or responsible person refuses to allow an enforcement official to enter property, the enforcement
official shall obtain a search warrant before entering the property. (Ord. 8/27/2002A (part), 2002)

7.01.160 False information or refusal prohibited.

It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully make a false statement or refuse to give his name or address with
intent to deceive or interfere with an enforcement officer when in the performance of his official duties under the
provisions of this title. A violation of this section shall be a class B misdemeanor. (Ord. 8/27/2002A (part), 2002)
7.01.170 Failure to obey a subpoena.

It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully refuse or fail to obey a subpoena issued for an administrative
enforcement hearing. A violation of this section shall be a class B misdemeanor. (Ord. 8/27/2002A (part), 2002)

Chapter 7.02
ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT HEARING PROCEDURES
Sections:
7.02.010 Administrative enforcement hearings. |
7.02.020 Request for administrative enforcement hearing.
7.02.030 Notification of administrative enforcement hearing.
7.02.040 Appointment and qualifications of hearing examiner.
7.02.050 Powers of hearing examiner.
7.02.060 Procedures at administrative enforcement hearing.
7.02.070 Failure to attend administrative enforcement hearing.
7.02.080 Administrative enforcement order.
7.02.090 Failure to comply with order.
7.02.100 Appeal.
7.02.010 | Administrative enforcement hearings. |
It is the purpose and intent of the city council that any responsible person shall be afforded due process of law |
during the enforcement process. Due process of law shall require adequate notice, an opportunity to request and to
fully participate in any hearing, and an adequate explanation of the reasons justifying any resulting action. The
following procedures are intended to establish a forum to resolve and correct violations of the Midvale Municipal
Code and applicable state codes fairly, quickly, and efficiently while providing due process. (Ord. 8/27/2002A
(part), 2002)
7.02.020 Request for administrative enforcement hearing.
A. A responsible person served with one of the following documents or notices shall have the right to request an
administrative enforcement hearing. Such request shall be filed within ten calendar days from the date of service of
one of the following notices:
1. Notice of violation;
2. Notice of itemized bill for costs;
3. Administrative citation; or
4. Notice of emergency abatement. |
€B. The request for an administrative enforcement hearing shall be made in writing to the director. The request
for an administrative enforcement hearing must include the following information: |
|
1. Name of the responsible person; |
|
2. Address of the responsible person; |
3. Telephone number of the responsible person: |
4. Intent to be represented by legal counsel; and |
5. __A comprehensive statement of the reasons for the appeal, including the specific provisions of law that are |
alleged to be violated by the action taken.
fu
;

fi, | = } = | . fe = } . q = /
EC. Failure to request an administrative enforcement hearing within ten calendar days from the date of service of
any of the notices in subsection (A) of this section shall constitute a waiver of the right to an administrative
enforcement hearing. The right to appeal said failure may be waived by the city upon showing of good cause. |
| FD. _ Ifaresponsible person fails to request a hearing after being issued a notice of violation as provided herein,
the corrective action detailed on the notice of violation shall be considered the administrative enforcement order |
pursuant to Section 7.02.080 of the Midvale Municipal Code.-
H. If¢h ib] Fail | ——: } sous £4] i lenslli } }
be-set-foradefautthearing. (Ord. 5/20/20030-6 § 1, 2003; Ord. 8/27/2002A (part), 2002)
7.02.030 Notification of administrative enforcement hearing. |
A. Written notice of the date, time and place of the administrative enforcement hearing shall be served to the
responsible persons as soon as practicable prior to its date. |
B. The notice shall be served by any of the methods of service set forth in Section 7.01.120. (Ord. 8/27/2002A |
(part), 2002) |
7.02.040 Appointment and qualifications of hearing examiner. :
‘ | A. With the advice and consent of the city council, Fthe mayor er-hisher-designee-shall appoint hearing
examiners to preside at administrative enforcement hearings. |
B. A hearing examiner: |
1. Shall have no personal, financial, or other conflict of interest in the matter for which the hearing is being |
| held; and- |
2. May be a city employee. (Ord. 8/27/2002A (part), 2002)
7.02.050 Powers of hearing examiner.
A. A hearing examiner shall have authority to conduct an administrative enforcement hearing for violations of
the Midvale Municipal Code and applicable state codes.
|
B. A hearing examiner may, for good cause shown by one of the parties or if the hearing examiner independently
determines that due process has not been adequately afforded to such party, continue a hearing.
C. At the request of any party to an administrative enforcement hearing, a hearing examiner may sign subpoenas |
for witnesses, documents, and other evidence where the attendance of the witness or the admission of evidence is |
deemed helpful or necessary by the hearing examiner to decide issues at the hearing. All costs related to the |
subpoena, including witness and mileage fees, shall be borne by the party requesting the subpoena. :
D. A hearing examiner has continuing jurisdiction over the subject matter of an administrative enforcement
hearing for the purposes of granting a continuance, ordering compliance by issuing an administrative enforcement
order, ensuring compliance of that order, which includes authorizing the city to enter and abate a violation, |
modifying an administrative enforcement order, or, where extraordinary circumstances exist, granting a new
hearing. |
'

E. A hearing examiner may require a responsible person to post a cash performance bond to ensure compliance
with an administrative enforcement order, but only if agreed to by the enforcement official handling the matter for
the city.
F. A hearing examiner shall not make determinations as to the existence of nonconforming rights. If a
responsible person claims a nonconforming right as a defense, the hearing examiner shall continue the
administrative enforcement hearing and shall refer the matter to the Midvale City beard-Board of adjustment
Adjustment for a determination as to the existence of the nonconforming right. The beard-Board of adiintneais
Adjustment’s decision shall be binding on the hearing examiner. The responsible person shall bear the costs of the
appeal to the beard-Board of adjustmentAdjustment. (Ord. 8/27/2002A (part), 2002)
7.02.060 Procedures at administrative enforcement hearing.
A. — Administrative enforcement hearings are intended to be informal in nature. Formal rules of evidence and
discovery shall not apply; however, an informal exchange of discovery may be required. Any such request shall be
in writing. Failure to request discovery shall not be a basis for a continuance. Complainant information shall not be
disclosed or released unless the complainant is a witness at the hearing. The procedure and format of the
administrative enforcement hearing shall follow duly adopted policies and procedures.
B. The city shall bear the burden of proof to establish the existence of a violation of the Midvale Municipal Code
or applicable state codes.
C. Such proof shall be established by a preponderance of the evidence.
D. Each party shall have the opportunity to cross-examine witnesses and present evidence in support of his case.
A written declaration signed under penalty of perjury may be accepted in lieu of a personal appearance. Testimony
may be given by telephone or other electronic means.
E. All administrative enforcement hearings shall be open to the public and shall be recorded as determined by the
city. At the discretion of the hearing examiner, administrative enforcement hearings may be held at the location of
the violation.
F. The responsible person shall have the right to be represented by an attorney. If an attorney will be representing
a responsible person at a hearing, notice of the attorney’s name, address, and telephone number shall be given to the
city at least two days prior to the hearing. If such notice is not given, the hearing may be continued at the city’s
request, and all costs of the continuance shall be assessed to the responsible person.
G. The burden to prove any raised defenses shall be upon the party raising any such defense. (Ord. 8/27/2002A
(part), 2002)
7.02.070 Failure to attend administrative enforcement hearing.
A responsible person who fails to appear at an administrative enforcement hearing shall be deemed to have waived
the right to such hearing, the adjudication of issues related to the hearing, and the right to appeal; provided, that
proper notice of the hearing has been given as provided in Section 7.01.120. (Ord. 8/27/2002A (part), 2002)
7.02.080 Administrative enforcement order.
A. A responsible person and the city may enter into a stipulated agreement, which shall be signed by both parties.
Such agreement shall be entered as an administrative enforcement order. Entry of such agreement shall constitute a
waiver of the right to an administrative enforcement hearing and the right to appeal.
B. After all evidence and testimony are presented, the hearing examiner shall issue a written administrative

| enforcement order within tenthirty days that affirms or rejects the notice or citation.
C. A hearing examiner may issue an administrative enforcement order that requires a responsible person to cease
and desist from violating the Midvale Municipal Code or applicable state codes and to take any necessary corrective
action.
D. A hearing examiner may order the city to enter the property and abate all violations, including the removal of
animals that are in violation of applicable code requirements.

E. A hearing examiner may revoke a kennel permit, an animal license, or the right to possess animals as provided
in the Midvale Municipal Code.
F. _ As part of an administrative enforcement order, a hearing examiner may establish specific deadlines for the
payment of fees and costs, and condition the total or partial assessment of civil fees on the responsible person’s
ability to take necessary corrective actions by the specified deadlines.
G. A hearing examiner may issue an administrative enforcement order imposing civil fees in accordance with
Section 7.03.110. Such fees shall continue to accrue until the responsible person complies with the hearing
examiner’s decision and corrects the violation.
H. A hearing examiner may schedule subsequent review hearings as may be necessary or as requested by the city
to ensure compliance with an administrative enforcement order.
I. A hearing examiner may order a responsible person to post a cash performance bond to ensure compliance
with an administrative enforcement order, but only if agreed to by the enforcement official handling the matter for
the city.
J. An administrative enforcement order shall become final on the date of signing by the hearing examiner.
K. | Acopy of the administrative enforcement order shall be served on all parties by any one of the methods listed
in Section 7.01.120. When required by this title, the director shall record the administrative enforcement order with
the Salt Lake County recorder’s office.
L. After a hearing examiner has issued an administrative enforcement order, the director shall monitor the matter
for compliance with the administrative enforcement order. (Ord. 8/27/2002A (part), 2002)
7.02.090 Failure to comply with order.
It shall be unlawful for any responsible person to fail to comply with the terms and deadlines set forth in an
administrative enforcement order. A violation of this section shall be a class B misdemeanor. (Ord. 8/27/2002A
(part), 2002)
7.02.100 Appeal.
A. — Any responsible person adversely affected by an administrative enforcement order made in the exercise of the
provisions of this title may file a petition for review in the Third District Court of Salt Lake County.
B. _ The petition shall be barred unless it is filed within thirty days after the administrative enforcement order is
final.
C. In the petition, the plaintiff may only allege that the administrative enforcement order was arbitrary or
capricious.
D. — The court shall:

1. Presume that the administrative enforcement order is valid;

2. Review the record to determine whether the order was arbitrary, capricious, or illegal; and

3. Affirm the administrative enforcement order if it is supported by substantialevidence.
E. If appealed, the record of the proceedings including minutes, findings, orders and, if available, a true and
correct transeriptrecording of the proceeding shall be transmitted to the reviewing court within thirty days of the
notice of appeal.tfthe preceeding -was-tape recordedatranseript of such tape recording shall be deemed a true and

ist £ F this sul ‘on.

F. If there is a record, court review shall be limited to the record of the proceeding. The court may not accept or
consider any evidence outside such record unless that evidence was offered to the hearing examiner and the court
