ORDINANCE NO. 2020-0-15
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 17 OF THE MIDVALE CITY
MUNICIPAL CODE; ALSO PROVIDING A SAVING CLAUSE AND AN
EFFECTIVE DATE FOR THE ORDINANCE.

WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated Sections 10-8-84 and 10-9a-501 through
10-9a-503, Midvale City (“the City”) has authority to make and amend any regulation of or
within zoning districts or any other provision of the land use ordinance to promote the prosperity,
improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, convenience, and aesthetics of the
municipality; and

WHEREAS, on January 2, 2002, the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance, Title 17 of the
Midvale City Municipal Code (the “Code”), became effective and is subject to amendments from
time to time pursuant to Section 17-3-1 the Code; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 17-1-1 of the Code, the City desires to “promote
coordinated development, redevelopment, effective use of land, and site planning;” “protect
private property rights;” and “foster convenient, compatible and efficient relationships among
land uses;” and

WHEREAS, a request has been made for a text amendment to amend the development
standards of Title 17, Zoning; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on August 12, 2020, which
meeting was preceded by notice of publication in the Salt Lake Tribune and Deseret News on
July 29, 2020, to review the request for a text amendment and, after considering all the
information received, made a recommendation to approve the text amendment request to the City
Council; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on September
1, 2020, which meeting was preceded by notice by publication in the Salt Lake Tribune and
Deseret News on August 18, 2020; and

WHEREAS, after taking into consideration citizen testimony, planning analysis, and the
Planning Commission’s recommendation as part of its deliberations, the City Council finds it is
appropriate and within the best interest of the City to make changes to the Code.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah
as follows:

Section 1. The following sections of the Midvale City Municipal Code are hereby
amended as included in the following attachments to this document:

Ordinance No. 2020-O-15
17-7-10.11: Jordan Bluffs Subarea 4 Page | of 8
Development Zone

e Attachment A: Amending Title 17, Zoning
Section 2. If any part of this ordinance or the applications thereof to any person or
circumstances shall, for any reason, be adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
unconstitutional or invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair or invalidate the remainder of
this ordinance or the application thereof to other persons and circumstances, but shall be
confined to its operation to the section, subdivision, sentence or part of the section and the
persons and circumstances directly involved in the controversy in which such judgment shall
have been rendered. It is hereby declared to be the intent of the City Council that this section
would have been adopted if such invalid section, provisions, subdivision, sentence or part of a
section or application had not been included.
Section 3. This ordinance shall be effective upon publication of a summary thereof.
PASSED AND APPROVED this | day of _\ yp TnPer_, 2000
7 a) , .
a = Robert Hale, Mayor
= saaienene ee een bd
w\ UL 1,19 7 ®
ATFEST: No) Ay Voting by City Council “Aye” “Nay”
“Pp, $ :
j} ORATE Quinn Sperry v
| ; Paul Glover “uv
* ALU _ oA 4 (VALWY Heidi Robinson te ee
Rori Andreason, MMC Bryant Brown eas
City Recorder . Dustin Gettel reel
Date of first publication: Sar lb Abo
Ordinance No. 2020-O-15
17-7-10.11: Jordan Bluffs Subarea 4 Page 2 of 8
Development Zone

ATTACHMENT A
(Ordinance No. 2020-O-15)
Chapter 17-7-10.11
JORDAN BLUFFS SUBAREA 4 RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT
Sections:
17-7-10.11.1 Purpose.
17-7-10.11.2 Uses.
17-7-10.11.3 | Development review process.
17-7-10.11.4 Residential development standards.
17-7-10.11.5 | Landscaping standards.
17-7-10.11.6 | Architectural standards.
17-7-10.11.7. Parking and access.
17-7-10.11.8 Utilities.
17-7-10.11.9 Signage.
17-7-10.11.10 | Home occupation standards.
17-7-10.11.11 Institutional controls.
17-7-10.11.1 Purpose.
[No changes in this section. ]
17-7-10.11.2 Uses.
[No changes in this section.]
17-7-10.11.3 Development review process.
[No changes in this section.]
17-7-10.11.4 Residential development standards.
The following development standards apply to all new development:

A. Lot Size. ...

B. Setbacks. ...

C. Residential Setback. ...

D. Build-to Line. ...

E. Residential Density. ...

F. Except for ordinary repairs and maintenance of lighting approved and installed after
January 2, 2002, all new development must comply with the following outdoor lighting
standards:

| 1. Light Source.
Ordinance No. 2020-O-15 Text Insertion
Attachment A teatDeletion
17-7-10.11: Jordan Bluffs Subarea Page 3 of 8
4 Development Zone

|
a.__Light sources shall be at least as efficient as LED and no greater than four
| thousand K in correlated color temperature (CCT).

b._ Light levels shall be designed such that light trespass measured at the property

| line does not exceed 0.01 foot-candles.

c. Light fixtures shall use a cutoff luminaire that is fully or partially shielded with no
light distributed above the horizontal plane of the luminaire or into nearby

| residential structures.

a-d.In no case shall the total lumens emitted for a single site exceed one hundred
thousand lumens per acre.

2. Parking Lot Lighting. Parking lot lighting shall be designed and constructed to
comply with the following standards:

a. Pole Height/Design.

i. Luminaire mounting height is measured from the parking lot or driveway
surface and may range from ten feet to thirty feet, based on review of site
plan, proposed land uses, surrounding land uses, parking area size, building
mass, topography of site, and impacts on adjacent properties.

ii. Poles and fixtures shall be black, dark brown, or another neutral color
approved by the community development director.

ili. All attempts shall be made to place the base of light poles within landscape
areas.

iv. Light poles in parking areas shall not exceed thirty feet in height. Poles
exceeding twenty feet in height are appropriate only for parking areas
exceeding two hundred stalls and not in close proximity to residential areas.

3. Other Outdoor Lighting Standards.

a. Wall-mounted lighting fixtures shall not be located above eighteen feet in height
unless being used as building accent lighting. Fixture styles and finishes shall
complement the building exterior.

b. Lighting located along pedestrian pathways or in areas primarily dedicated to
human activity shall be bollard style lighting or down-directed lighting not to
exceed twelve feet in height. Pedestrian lighting shall be coordinated through each
project and shall complement adjacent projects to the greatest extent practical.

c. In order to avoid light pollution, backlit awnings, up-light spotlights, and
floodlights are prohibited.

d. Street lighting shall either be chosen from the city’s approved streetlight list or
installed to match a theme set by developments within the zone or neighborhood.

e. Lighting for outdoor athletic facilities may be mounted on a roof or wall at a
height above the typical eighteen-foot maximum provided it is demonstrated by
the applicant through submittal of appropriate documentation and light studies

Ordinance No. 2020-O-15 Text Insertion
Attachment A +textDeleton
17-7-10.11: Jordan Bluffs Subarea Page 4 of 8

4 Development Zone

showing that the facility cannot otherwise be properly lighted. This lighting shall
comply with the following requirements:
a. Light fixtures and necessary supports shall not extend more than four feet
above the roof line;
b. Light fixtures shall include appropriate shields to ensure no light trespass
off the site;
c. Light fixtures shall include appropriate shields and louvers to minimize, to
the greatest extent possible, any point source light pollution;
d. Light fixtures and supports shall be painted to blend with the color scheme
of the structure to which they are mounted;
e. Light fixtures shall be dimmable to address any possible unforeseen light
impacts once they are constructed and operable; and
f. The planning commission shall review the hours of light usage and shall
approve an appropriate usage schedule depending on the specific situation
and impacts on the surrounding area.
4. Upgrading Preexisting Lighting. An applicant must bring preexisting lighting into
compliance with this code upon application with the business license department for

a change in ownership, new business in a stand-alone structure or in a multi-tenant

structure in which the new business utilizes more than fifty percent of the building

square footage on the site, in conjunction with an application for a building permit
for any alteration, remodel or expansion of any structure on the site, or in conjunction
with changes to the approved site plan.

5. Lighting Plan Submission Requirements. A lighting plan is required for all
developments and must contain the following:

a. Plans indicating the location on the premises, and the type of illumination devices,
fixtures, lamps, supports, reflectors, installation and electrical details;

b. Description of illuminating devices, fixtures, lamps, supports, reflectors, and other
devices that may include, but is not limited to, manufacturer catalog cuts and
drawings, including section where required; and photometric data, such as that
furnished by manufacturers, or similar showing the angle of the cutoff or light
emission; and

c. A point-by-point light plan to determine the adequacy of the lighting over the site.

6. Exceptions. The following requirements are intended to provide exceptions to
specific lighting regulations set forth herein:

a. Up to 2500 lumens of upward directed lighting per acre is permitted for
landscape, architecture, and artistic uses provided no measurable light trespass
occurs beyond property lines.

b. Street lights installed along public and private rights-of-way are exempt from the
lumen per acre limit.

Ordinance No. 2020-O-15 Text Insertion
Attachment A TFextDeletion
17-7-10.11: Jordan Bluffs Subarea Page 5 of 8

4 Development Zone

a-c. String or bistro lighting is exempt from the cutoff, down directed, and shielded
requirements.
17-7-10.11.5 Landscaping standards.
[No changes in this section.]
17-7-10.11.6 Architectural standards.
[No changes in this section.]
17-7-10.11.7 Parking and access.
[No changes in this section.]
17-7-10.11.8 Utilities.
[No changes in this section.]
17-7-10.11.9 Signage.
All signage is subject to Section 17-3-7. Allowed signage within Subarea 4 is limited to the sign
types in Table 17-7-10.11.9 and shall comply with the following sign standards:
Table 17-7-10.11.9
Signs
Sign type Sign Area Max. | Sign Height Max. General Requirements
Monument* 32 sf. 6 feet (total) At least | foot of pedestal. May be
placed on berm, w/top of sign <9
feet; 3 feet max. height in clear
view triangle; > 3 feet from
sidewalk on project property
Wall 40 s.f. n/a One blade or wall sign may be used
within “Area A,” “Area B” and
“Area C”
Blade 40 s.f. > 7 feet above One blade or wall sign may be used
pavement or within “Area A,” “Area B” and
ground level “Area C”
A. Sign Standards.
Ordinance No. 2020-O-15 Text Insertion
Attachment A feat beeen
17-7-10.11: Jordan Bluffs Subarea Page 6 of 8
4 Development Zone

|
1. Monument Signs. “Area A,” “Area B” and “Area C” identified in Figure | of this |
chapter are allowed one monument sign for each street frontage. A monument sign
shall not exceed thirty-two square feet or six feet in height with a minimum one-foot
pedestal, and shall be located in a landscaped area associated with a project entry or
focal point. The applicant may forgo the one-foot pedestal if the landscaped area is
improved with something other than turf. The sign may be located on a berm
provided the top of the sign does not exceed nine feet in height above finished grade.
Monument signs shall not be constructed within the clear view area and shall be set
back at least three feet from a public sidewalk and property lines. Monument signs
shall be constructed with materials similar to those of the surrounding building(s).
2. Wall Signs. “Area A,” “Area B” and “Area C” identified in Figure | of this chapter
may have one wall sign on one building. The maximum sign area shall be forty
square feet. External illumination of the sign may be allowed; internal illumination of
the sign is prohibited. A wall sign cannot be utilized with a blade sign in the same
area.
3. Blade Signs. “Area A,” “Area B” and “Area C” identified in Figure | of this chapter
may have one blade sign on one building. The maximum sign area shall be forty
square feet. The blade sign shall be mounted at least seven feet above the pavement or
ground level. External illumination of the sign may be allowed; internal illumination
of the sign is prohibited. A blade sign cannot be utilized with a wall sign in the same
area.
4. Temporary Signs. The following provisions regulate the use of temporary signs. Ifa
temporary sign type is not specifically designated, it is prohibited.
a. Attachment. Temporary signs may not be permanently attached to the ground,
buildings or other structures.
b. Banner Signs. One banner sign is allowed per primary building wall or on-site
fence/wall. Banners may not exceed eighty square feet and must be mounted
flush on the wall or fence with all corners securely fastened to the wall or fence.
Banners must be kept in good condition at all times: i.e., tattered, torn, or faded
banners must be removed. A temporary sign permit is not required. A banner may
not be used as primary signage for a business for more than six months from the
business opening. Signage located on temporary construction fencing shall be
allowed and considered exempt from the size limit in this section.
c. Balloon Signs/Inflated Sign Displays/Feather Flags/Flags. Balloon signs/inflated ;
sign displays, feather flags, and signs allowed to be displayed on-site for a period
of thirty consecutive days per calendar quarter up to four times per calendar year. j
A temporary sign permit shall be required for each display period. The signs shall
be adequately secured so as not to extend into the public right-of-way or
constitute a safety hazard.
d. Grand Opening Events Signs. Promotional signage, such as pennants, streamers,
banners, balloon signs, flags. feather flags, and a-frame and inflated sign displays,
may be used for grand opening events for new businesses. Such promotional
signage must be initiated within the first three months of a project receiving a
certificate of occupancy and may be used for a maximum of thirty consecutive
Ordinance No. 2020-O-15 Text Insertion
Attachment A Fext Deletion
17-7-10.11: Jordan Bluffs Subarea Page 7 of 8 |
4 Development Zone |

days, except for projects receiving multiple certificates of occupancy as allowed
below. Said signs shall be used in such a manner so as not to constitute a safety
hazard. A temporary sign permit shall be required following the first certificate of
occupancy. Promotional signage shall not include off-site signage, snipe signs, or
illuminated signs or devices. For the purposes of this section, a business which
receives multiple certificates of occupancy may place grand opening events
signage with the first certificate of occupancy and shall remove such signage
within 30 days of receiving the last certificate of occupancy for the project or
within eighteen months of the first certificate of occupancy. whichever comes
later.
17-7-10.11.10 Home occupation standards.
[No changes in this section.]
17-7-10.11.11 Institutional controls.
[No changes in this section.]
Ordinance No. 2020-O-15 Text Insertion
Attachment A Text Deletion
17-7-10.11: Jordan Bluffs Subarea Page 8 of 8
4 Development Zone
