ORDINANCE NO. 2020-0-08
AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING TEMPORARY LAND USE
REGULATIONS REGARDING PARKING FOR MIXED-USE
DEVELOPMENTS IN THE STATE STREET (SSC) ZONE.

WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 10-9a-504 Utah Code Annotated, Midvale City (“the
City”) may, without prior consideration of or recommendation from the planning commission,
enact an ordinance establishing a temporary land use regulation for any part or all of the area
within the municipality if the City Council makes a finding of compelling, countervailing public
interest; and

: WHEREAS, Chapter 17-7-7 of the Midvale City Municipal Code (“the Code”)

establishes the State Street (“SSC”) Zone with goals to ‘facilitate transition of the State Street
corridor from underdeveloped commercial parcels to a more vibrant mix of commercial and
residential uses,” “assure and enhance the investment of State Street property owners,” and
“protect surrounding neighborhoods from the potential adverse effects of more intense land
uses”; and

WHEREAS, the SSC Zone does not adequately address how to regulate parking for
residential components of mixed-use developments; and

WHEREAS, allowing mixed-use developments to occur without adequate parking
regulations would result in deleterious impacts to the prosperity, comfort, and convenience of the
City’s residents including, but not limited to: overflow of on-street parking into nearby
neighborhoods, blocking of access to existing residences and businesses, the creation of unsafe
routes for pedestrians and bicyclists, and restriction of emergency response vehicle and
personnel access; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to foster new development on State Street that
meets the goals and purpose of the SSC Zone.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah
as follows:

Section 1. Finding of compelling, countervailing public interest.

A. The lack of adequate parking regulation for residential components of mixed-use
projects could lead to projects that are fundamentally incompatible with the
purpose of the SSC Zone because of their potential to result in overflow of on-
street parking into nearby neighborhoods, blocking of access to existing
residences and businesses, the creation of unsafe routes for pedestrians and
bicyclists, and restriction of emergency response vehicle and personnel access.

B. The foregoing constitutes a compelling, countervailing public interest which

Ordinance 2020-O-08 Page | of 2 |

justifies the temporary land use regulation set forth in the Section 3 below.
Section 2. Balancing of Public vs. Private Interests. The City Council finds that the
effect of this temporary land use regulation on owners of private property, who might submit
applications for mixed-use projects under the SSC Zone, is outweighed by the public interest in
maintaining the desired character of development in the SSC Zone within Midvale City.
Section 3. Temporary Zoning Regulation. From the effective date of this ordinance and
during the period of this temporary land use regulation, mixed-use projects shall be required to
provide parking spaces according to the following calculation:
e 1.5 spaces per 1-bedroom unit;
e 2spaces per 2-bedroom unit;
e 2.5 spaces per 3-bedroom unit and greater; and
e 1 space per every 4 units for guest parking
All other parking-related requirements in the SSC Zone shall remain in effect as currently
adopted.
Section 4. Duration. This temporary land use regulation shall remain in effect for a
period of six (6) months from the effective date of this ordinance or until the effective date of a
City Council action adopting revisions to address parking standards in Chapter 17-7-7 of the
Code, whichever occurs first.
Section 5. Effective date. This ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
passage.
PASSED AND APPROVED this (¢* day of _ ay , 2020.
A Noe ne Robert Hale, Mayor
A
ATTEST: = ee PE] (Voting by City Council “Aye” “Nay”
y) Ww Uy 1,19 F wef Quinn Sperry ~~
. LO ey Paul Glover alt
KM cA CM PRP Rare > Heidi Robinson =<
Rbri Andreason, MMC Bryant Brown i
City Recorder Dustin Gettel ail ee
Date of first publication: (May 2 030
Ordinance 2020-O0-08 Page 2 of 2
