MIDVALE CITY
ORDINANCE NO. 2020-O-18
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING MIDVALE CITY CODE SECTION 3.02.075 CARES
ACT EXPENDITURES.

WHEREAS, as authorized by Utah Code Ann. § 63G-6a-107.7(1), the City Council
is authorized to “make rules relating to the management and control of procurements and
procurement procedures by the procurement unit;” and

WHEREAS, the City Council has adopted Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 3.02
to govern the City’s procurements and procurement procedures; and

WHEREAS, on March 27, 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic
Security Act (“CARES Act”) was signed into law; and

WHEREAS, the CARES Act provided funding to state and local governments for
COVID-19 related expenditures made between March | and December 30, 2020, that
were not accounted for in the government entity’s budget as of March 27, 2020; and

WHEREAS, the City has received $1,987,354 in CARES Act funds; and

WHEREAS, the City has expended or earmarked approximately $814,000 on 18
projects that have assisted with COVID-19 related needs; and

WHEREAS, the City has identified 12 additional projects that would further assist
in meeting Midvale’s COVID-19 related needs; and

WHEREAS, the requirements under Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 3.02 may
prevent the City from completing these projects before the CARES Act deadline of
December 30, 2020; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to adopt expediated procurement
requirements to ensure that these projects are completed by the required deadline; and

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that proposed procurement procedures are
appropriately competitive and adequately protect the CARES Act funds from abuse or
malfeasance.

NOw, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah
as follows:

Section 1. The City Council desires to enact Midvale Municipal Code Section
3.02.075 CARES Act Expenditures as set forth in Exhibit A.
Section 2. This ordinance shall be effective immediately.
PASSED AND APPROVED this 20" day of October, 2020.
he
ay
Mayor Robert M. Hale
[SEAL] VOTING:
Oy Bal ‘,. Bryant Brown Yea_t Nay
aS ‘ o Dustin Gettel Yea_v Nay
= f gNCORPORATED . Paul Glover Yea_y Nay__
a. oo 7 Heidi Robinson Yea_v Nay
$e uty 1,199 J & Quinn Sperry Yea _u~ Nay
°, wy
ATTEST:
 fiphe Cuney—§
Rorf L. Andreason, MMC
City Recorder
o
Published this x5” day of Ocr., 2020.

3.02.075 CARES Act Expenditures.

A. Qualification. If an expenditure is funded by the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act, Pub. L.
No. 116-136, (“CARES Act’), the expenditure may be made by the following expediated procedure notwithstanding
the expenditure’s classification under Section 3.02.060 and its associated purchasing procedures under Sections
3.02.100 to 3.02.140.

B. Procedure. Unless otherwise exempted under Section 3.02.060(E), an expenditure funded by the CARES Act
must be awarded to the responsive responsible bidder according to the following procedure:

1. The department head will submit the expenditure to the administrative services director. The administrative
services director will provide a written determination whether the expense may be funded by CARES Act
funds and whether there are sufficient CARES Act funds to pay for the expenditure based on the
department head’s estimated cost for the expenditure.

2. Upon receiving written approval from the administrative services director, the department head will submit
a purchase requisition for the expenditure to the procurement officer along with the administrative services
director’s written determination described in Subsection 3.02.075(B)(1).

3. Upon approval of the purchase requisition, the procurement officer or the department head, in coordination
with the procurement officer, will create a request for quote solicitation for the procurement item or service
or construction. The request for quote must include:

i. The terms and conditions of the City;

ii. Specifications of the procurement item, service, or construction;

iii. Shipping terms (if applicable);

iv. Any additional information needed to procure the procurement item, service, or construction; and

v. The requirement that the procurement item, service, construction must be provided or completed
before the expiration of CARES Act funds.

4. Best efforts must be made to solicit the request for quote to at least three potential vendors of the supplies,
services, or construction required. Solicitations must be in writing including the potential vendor’s
company name and contact information.

5. Responses to request for quote must be in writing and be delivered by the vendor in person or by email,
fax, or mail. Ifa vendor is unable or fails to provide a quote within five business days from the date of the
request for quote was made, a “no bid” response is acceptable. Any “no bid” response must be documented.
If only one quote is received, the vendor may be required to furnish a detailed cost proposal for review and
the bid award may be subject to subsequent negotiation.

6. The procurement officer, in consultation with the department head, must select the responsive responsible
bidder without bias or favoritism.

7. Once a vendor has been selected, the procurement officer will issue a purchase order.

8. All information relating to the quotes obtained and selection of the responsive responsible bidder must be
retained by the City in accordance with the applicable government records laws.
