ORDINANCE NO. 2020-0-06
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 17-7-16.2 OF THE MIDVALE
CITY MUNICIPAL CODE; ALSO PROVIDING A SAVING CLAUSE AND
AN EFFECTIVE DATE FOR THE ORDINANCE.

WHEREAS, pursuant to Sections 10-9a-501 through 10-9a-503 Utah Municipal Code,
Midvale City (“the City”) has authority to make and amend any regulation of or within zoning
districts or any other provision of the land use ordinance to promote the prosperity, improve the
morals, peace and good order, comfort, convenience, and aesthetics of the municipality; and

WHEREAS, on January 2, 2002, the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance (Title 17 of the
Midvale City Municipal Code (the “Code”)) became effective and may be subject to
amendments from time to time pursuant to Section 17-3-1 the Code; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 17-1-1 of the Code, the City desires to “promote
coordinated development, redevelopment, effective use of land, and site planning;” “prevent
substandard development, waste, inefficient use of land and resources, and danger and
congestion in travel and transportation;” and “protect and promote public safety, health, and
general welfare by providing adequate water and sewage control”, “foster convenient,
compatible and efficient relationships among land uses;” and

WHEREAS, a request has been made for a text amendment to amend the types of public
facilities allowed in the public facilities overlay zone (Section 17-7-16.2); and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on March 25, 2020, which
meeting was preceded by notice of publication in the Salt Lake Tribune and Deseret News, on
February 26, 2020, to review the request for a text amendment and, after considering all the
information received, made a recommendation to approve the text amendment request thereon to
the City Council; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on April 21,
2020, which meeting was preceded by notice by publication in the Salt Lake Tribune and Deseret
News, on April 7, 2020; and

WHEREAS, after taking into consideration citizen testimony, planning analysis, and the
Planning Commission’s recommendation as part of its deliberations, the City Council finds it is
appropriate and within the best interest of the City to make changes to the Code.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah
as follows:

Ordinance 2020-O0-06 Page | of 3

Section 1. The following sections of the Midvale City Municipal Code are hereby

amended as included in the following attachments to this document:
e Attachment A: Amending Section 17-7-16.2

Section 2. If any part of this ordinance or the applications thereof to any person or
circumstances shall, for any reason, be adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
unconstitutional or invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair or invalidate the remainder of
this ordinance or the application thereof to other persons and circumstances, but shall be
confined to its operation to the section, subdivision, sentence or part of the section and the
persons and circumstances directly involved in the controversy in which such judgment shall
have been rendered. It is hereby declared to be the intent of the City Council that this section
would have been adopted if such invalid section, provisions, subdivision, sentence or part of a
section or application had not been included.

Section 3. This ordinance shall be effective upon publication of a summary thereof.

PASSED AND APPROVED this AK day of Ay 2.1 2 ,20_.

o\tY STA 7. Robert Hale, Mayor |
& Ss _— Rp, On
= § CORP ORATED . c,
OQ Ff
ATTEST: Sf —eom— FZ Voting by City Council “Aye” “Nay”
y, * & Jury 1,199 J wf Quinn Sperry oan ee

¢ S) vf Paul Glover Len
KOU ATI OEROR pre 2 Heidi Robinson Lu
Rari Andreason, MMC Bryant Brown —
City Recorder Dustin Gettel L-
Date of first publication: Way oy Paes
Ordinance 2020-O0-06 Page 2 of 3

ATTACHMENT A
Text Additions
Text Deletions
Chapter 17-7-16
PUBLIC FACILITIES OVERLAY ZONE
17-7-16.2 Public facilities.
The following are defined as public facilities and may be allowed in a public facilities
overlay zone. These public facilities must be operated by a governmental or specified
agency. If a facility is not specifically designated, it cannot be considered under this
overlay.
A. Government buildings.
B. Fire station.
C. Police station.
D. Park/playground.
E. Recreation and community center.
F. Library.
G. Educational institution.
H. Cemetery.
|. Special Service District Facility for Sewer, “Special Service District’ defined by
x Utah Code.
J. Special Service District Facility for Water, “Special Service District’ defined by
e Utah Code.
Ordinance 2020-O0-06 Text Insertion
Attachment A Page 3 of 3 Text Deletion
