                                       MIDvALE CITY

                                Onorrrrce No. 2021-O-16

           Ax Onotxlrcr ExpANDING FTREwoRK REsrRrcrroNs IN MTDvALE DUE To
                            ExtsrrNG DRoucHT CoNDrrroNS

       WHEREAS, Governor Spencer J. Cox has issued Executive Orders 2021-07,
2021-10, and 2021-13 declaring a state ofemergency and requiring increased water
conservation due to drought conditions for the State of Utah; and

       WHEREAS, The Midvale City Council has reduced the watering olgrass on its
property in compliance with Governor Cox's Executive Order 2021-13 and have asked
Midvale residents to do the same: and

         WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. $ l54-5-202.5, provides that a municipality may
restrict ignition sources ilits legislative body finds that existing conditions necessitate
controlled use ofany ignition source, including fireworks; and

        WHEREAS, the Midvale City Council finds, that within Midvale City, the
current drought conditions and water conservation efforts have caused extremely
hazardous environmental conditions, impacting the combustibility oftrees, grasses, and
the like; and

        WHEREAS, the Midvale City Council llnds that Midvale City has a number ol
dry grass-covered areas, waterways. trails, washes or similar areas throughout the city
that present dangerous conditions relating to hre danger; and

       WHEREAS, this recommendation complies with the requirements of Utah Code
Ann. $l54-5-202.5 as it only restricts fireworks around defined hazardous areas,
designates the restricted area along readily identifiable features, ensures that the boundary
ofthe designated restricted area is as close as is practical to the defined hazardous area,
and identifies the restricted area though a map readily available to the public; and

         WHEREAS, the Midvale City Council has determined that the minimal
restriction on public convenience which would occur through a restriction on the use of
personal fireworks is significantly outweighed by the need to protect public health and
safety and to take precautions to guard against the existing extraordinary fire danger.

Now, THEREFoRE, BE IT Onolrnro by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah as
lollows:

       Section l.     Restriction on Personal Fireworks. Pursuanl to the provisions of
Utah Code Ann. 015A-5-202.5, and based on the findings as noted above, the use of
personal fireworks is hereby prohibited within the geographical boundaries of Midvale
    City. The attached map contains the geographical boundaries ol Midvale City and is
    incorporated herein as the citywide restriction area. To further facilitate the identification
    of the geographical boundaries by readily identifiable features and major roadways, all
    areas of Midvale within the following boundaries shall be restricted areas:

             a         the Jordan River east to Union Park Avenue and 1300 Eastl and

             b         Interstate 215 south to approximately 2 city blocks north of9000 S.

           This prohibition shall remain in effect until October 15,2021, unless earlier
    terminated by action of the City Council. This restriction shall not apply to permitted
    public fireworks displays authorized by the City and approved by the City's fire code
    oflicial.

             Section 2.          Penalty. Violation of this Ordinance will constitute an lnfraction

             Section   3. Severability. If an y section, part, or provision of this Ordinance is
    held invatid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any
    other portion of this Ordinance, and all sections parts and provision ol this Ordinance
    shall be severable.

           Section 3.      Et-fective Date. For the protection and preservation of public
    health and safety, this Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon its passage. The
    City Recorder is hereby directed to publish and/or post this Ordinance forthwith.

                PASsED AND AppRovED this 22nd dav of June 2021


                                                             MI ovllr Ctry          t


                            k,
                               o{ Y   SI4 /6
                                               o^.
                                                 c'
                                                             By   f?Jeab
                                                                  Mavor Robert M. Hale
                       :t     ${coRloLAxED
                       ol
                                                     I
                                                             Vorr\c:
    lsEALl
                       *       4,Lv r, tJs           t
                                                             Bryant Brown       Yea "/ Nay _
                                  R   $?                     Dustin Gettel      Yea _   ,rt Nay
                                                             Paul Glover        Yea r- Nay-
                                                             Heidi Robinson     Yea r-- Nay -_
                                                             Quinn Sperry       Yea .,2 Nay
    .)                                                                                            -
(


    R    L.        n, MC
    Citv Recorder
    fosteA tni. ,Sday oll              r*. 2021          .
