Attachment: Ordinance No. 202 l -O-22

                                    MIDVALE CITY, UTAH

                                 ORDINANCE NO. 2O2I-O-22

        AN ORDINANCE APPROVING AND ADOPTING THE AMENDMENTS
        MADE TO THE PROJECT AREA PLANS FOR THE BINGHAM JUNCTION
        RDA, JORDAN BLUFFS RDA, AND MAIN STREET CDA

       WHEREAS, The Redevelopment Agency of Midvale City (he "Agency") was created to
transact the business and exercise the powers provided for in the Utah Redevelopment Agencies
Act;
       WHEREAS, On November 9, 2021 the Agency's board adopted proposed amendments to
the project area plans for the Bingham Junction Redevelopment Area, the Jordan Bluffs
Redevelopment Area, and the Main Street Community Development Area; and

       WHEREAS, The Agency followed all noticing and public hearing requirements outlined in
 Utah State Code Annotated Section I 7C-4- l 08: and

       WHEREAS, The amendments to the three project area plans adopted by the Agency Board
do not take effect until adopted by ordinance ofthe legislative body ofthe community in which the
project area that is the subject ofthe project area plan being amended is located, per l7C-4-108(4);
and
        WHEREAS, The Midvale City Council is the legislative body for the community in which
the project areas that are the subject ofthe project area plans being amended.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah as follows:
       The amendments to the Redevelopment Agency of Midvale City's three project area plans,
namely Bingham Junction Redevelopment Area. Jordan Bluffs Redevelopment Area, and Main
Street Community Development Area, that were adopted by the Agency on November 9,2021
through Resolution No.202l-2lRDA are hereby adopted by ordinance by this legislative body.
This fulfills the requirements outlined in Utah State Code Annotated I 7C-4- 108(4).


         PASSED AND APPROVED this l6'h day of November 202 I




                                            Robert M. Hale. Mayor


         T

                                                              o\1
                                                                    { srAt€
                                                                              (,r^
                                                         <,
 o     L. And        MC                                                          o
                                                    .:Y
City Recorder                                       o                                Z
                                                    ,                                t
                                                     *          lrty r, tgd

                                                                     R A19
 Voting by the City Council   "Aye"    'Nay"

 Bryant Brown                    \,/
 Paul Clover
 Quinn Sperry
                              ---7
 Heidi Robinson                 ,u
 Dustin Gettel                   ,-/
Date of first publication:
BINGHAM .IUNCTION PROJECT AREA REDEVELOPMENT PLAN




                 Adopted August I 0, 2004
                  Revised _,       2021




           Redeveloprnent Agency of Midvale City
                                              TABLE OF CONTENTS

i. Introduction                                                                                               4
3. Definitions                                                                                                a
4. Description ofthe Proposed Redevelopnrent Area....                                                         76

5. A Summary ofLand Use, Principal Slreets, Population Densities. Br"rilding Intensities and the
    Large-Scale Master PIan for the Proposed Project Area                                                     T
6   Reasons for Selection of Project Area.....................                                                E8

7   Description of Physical, Social, and Economic Conditions Existing in the Project Area................. !8

8   Description ofthe Specific Project that is the Object of Proposed Redevelopment                           88

9   Redevelopment Purposes and Objectives...                                                           . I0]+

10. How Proposed Redevelopment Activities will Reduce or Eliminate Blight                                t0]+

I l. How the Purposes of State Law Would Be Attained By the Redevelopment                                t0+
12. Conformance of the Proposed Redevelopment to the Community's General P1an...............           .It.+]

13. Ceneral Design Standards                                                                                  E
14. Use of Eminent Domain                                                                                     g
I 5. Owner Participation


16. Method of Selection of Private Developers to Undertake Redevelopment.                          ....... Ilg

I 7. Implernenting the P1an.................,......                                                      t2€

I 8. Project Financing.............




20. Review of Redevelopment Proposals...                                                                 I   5]6

21. Existing Buildings and Historical Buildings...                                                       I   -sl6

22. Provisions for Amending P|an......................                                                   r6.16
                                  TABTE OF EXH IBITS


Supporting Documents                                   A

Map of the Project Area                                B

Existing Land Use Map.........                         C

Large Scale Master Plan Map                            D

Minutes of the Planning Commission. June 2i. 2004      E
l. lntroduction

   The Board of Directors of the Redevelopment Agency of Midvale City have determined that the
   Bingham Junction Project Area ("Project Area") needs rehabilitation and development to help
   ensure a viable economic life for the community. The proposed redevelopment plan envisions
   that public. residential, commercial, office, light industrial and open space uses will be
   developed in the Project Area. This plan willguide and control the redevelopment undertakings
   in the Binghanr Junction Project Area.

2, Recitals of Preconditions for Designating a Redevelopment Project Area
   iI   Pursuant to the provisions of$ l7C-4-101.5 ofthe Redevelopment Agencies Act ("Act"), the
        governing body ofthe Redevelopment Agency of Midvale City ("Agency") designated by
        resolution a redevelopment survey area on November 12.2002. The goveming body found
        that the survey area required study to determ ine whether or not one or more redevelopnrent
        projects were f'easible and contained a description and map ofthe boundaries ofthe survey
        area: and

   b. Pursuant to the provisions of $ I 7C-4-102 ofthe Act, a blight survey was completed within
        one year of the year fronr the date of authorization: and

   c    Pursuant to $ l7C-4-102 ofthe Act, the Agency made a finding ofblight at a Blight Hearing-
        held on August 26,2003: and

   d. Pursuant to the provisions of $ I7C-4-102(l)(a) ofthe Act, Midvale City has a planning
        conrmission and a general plan as required by law; and

   e. Pursuant to the provisions of $ I7C-4-102 ofthe Act on the Agency's own motion, the
        Agency selected the Project Area hereinafter described comprising all or part ofthe proposed
        survey area; and

   f. Pursuant to the provisions of $ I 7C-4- 102 ofthe Act, the Agency has condttcted one or more
        public hearings for the purpose of informing the public about the proposed Project Area.
        allowing public input into the Agency's deliberations and considerations regarding the
        proposed Project Area- A public input hearing was held on January 6, 2004.

3, Definitions
   As used in this Redevelopment Project Plan

   a. "Act" means the Redevelopment Agencies Act as found in Title l7C. Chapter l, Utah Code
        Annotated 1953, as amended, or such other amendments as shall from tinte to time be
        enacted or any successor law or act.

   b. "Agency" means the Redevelopment Agency of Midvale City as designated by the City to
        act as the redevelopment agency.
c   "Base tax amount" means the taxable value of the property within a project area from
    which tax increment will be collected, as shown upon the assessment roll last equalized
    before the date ofthe taxing entity committee's approval ofthe first project area budget.

d. "nlighl" or "blighted" means the condition ofan area lhat meets the requirements of
    Subsection I 7C-2-301of the Act.

    "Blight study" means a study to determine the existence or nonexistence ofblight within a
    survey area as provided in Section l7C-2-3Ol ofthe Act.

f. "Bondrr means any bonds, notes, interim certificates, debentures, or other obligations issued
    by the Agency.

g. "City" means Midvale City.
h. "Community " means the City.
    "Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act" or
                  commonly known as Superfund, means the law enacted by Congress on
    December I l, 1980. This law created a tax on the chenrical and petroleum industries and
    provided broad Federal authority to respond directly to releases or threatened releases of
    hazardous substances that may endanger public health or the environmenl.

i- "lnterra-aeencv Loan" is a loan lionr one proiect area to another u,hich thc RDA Board and
    Citv Council both approve a s provided in Section I 7C-l-409( I Xd) of the Act,Pprovided the
    proJsct r()11 fbr agency funds are sufficient to repay the loan amount


ik. "Legislative body" means the City Council of Midvale City which is the legislative body of
    the community.

*=l"Planning commission" means the Midvale City Planning Commission established
    pursuant to law or charter.


l.rrr. _ "Project area" means the geographic area described in a project area plan or draft
     project area plan where the redevelopment set forth in this project area plan will take place

n+,1-"Project area budget" means a multi-year projection of annual or cumulative revenues
    and expenses and other fiscal matters pertaining to the redevelopment project area that
    includes:
         i.    the base taxable value of propeny in the project area;
         ii. the projected tax increnrent expected to be generated within the project areal
         i ii. the amount oftax increnrent expected to be shared with other taxing entities;
         iv. the amount oftax increnrent expected to be used to implement the project area plan.
               including the estimated amount of tax increnrenl to be used for land acquisition,
               public improvements, infrastructure improvements, and loans, grants, or other
               incentives to private and public entities; and
               The tax increment expected to be used to cover the cost of administering the project
               area plan.

11.1t "Project area plan" means a written plan that, after its effective date, guides and
   controls the redevelopment activities within the project area.

+p-" Redevelopment" means the development activities under this project area plan within a
   redevelopment project area, including:
        i.  planning, design, development, demolition, clearance, construction, rehabilitation,
           or any combination ofthese, ofpart or all ofa project area;
        ii.the provision ofresidential, commercial, industrial, public, or other structures or
           spaces, including recreational and other facilities incidental or appurtenant to them;
        iii.
           altering, improving, modernizing, demolishing, reconstructing, or rehabilitating, or
           any combination ofthese, existing structures in a project area;
       iv. providing open space, including streets and other public grounds and space around
               buildings;
        v. providing public or private buildings, infrastructure, structures, and improvements;
               and
        vi. providing improvements of public or private recreation areas and other public
               grounds.

q. "Revolvins tloan Porosram" refers to anv initiative r.l'herebv lhe Asencv loans
   redevelopnrent lunds to a third Darty. The temrs of the loan req uire reDavment lo the Asenc\
   and re ;aid funds are tlpicallv replenished and reinvested into the initia!ive

pl"Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act" or "SARA" means the law adopted
   by Congress on October 17, 1986. SARA reflected EPA's experience in administering the
   complex Superfund program during its first six years and made several important changes
   and additions to the program.

t;1"Survey area" means an area designated by a resolution adopted by the Agency Board for
   study to determine whether a project or projects within the area are feasible.

r,1-"Taxes" includes all levies on an ad valorem basis upon land, real property, personal
   property, or any other propeny. tangible or intangible.

.=L "Taxing entiQr, means a public entity that levies a tax on property within the project area.
ey. "Taxing entity committee" means a conrmittee representing the interests of taxing entities
    and consists of two representatives appointed by the Jordan School District, two
    representatives appointed by resolution ofthe Midvale City Council, two representatives
    appointed by the Salt Lake County Mayor, one representative appointed by the State School
    Board and one representative ofthe renraining governing bodies ofthe other local taxing
   agencies.

rtr.   "Tax increment" means the difference between the amount ofproperty tax revenues
   generated each tax year by all taxing enlities fi'orn the area within a project area designated in
       the project area plan as the area lrom which tax increnrent is to be collected, using the current
       assessed value ofthe property and the amount of property tax revenues that would be
       generated from that same area using the base taxable value ofthe property.

4. Description of the Proposed Redevelopment Area
   a. M.ap-al-!ls&i. re4
       The map ofthe Project Area is attached in the Appendix, Exhibit "B" and incorporated
       herein.

5. A SummarX of Land Use, Principal Streets, Population Densities, Building Intcnsities and
   the Large-Scale Master Plan for the Proposed Project Area

   a   I-.xistinu l.and [.lse Man

       A map ofexisting Iand uses in the Project Area is included in Appendix "C" and made a part
       of this plan. lt indicates the layout ofprincipal streets serving the area.


   h- Pooulation Densities
       The area population can be characterized as low-density.

   c. Buildins ntensities
                 I


       Buildings in the area are generally single-story, detached single family or commercial
       structures. The majority of the area is a former Superfund site which is vacant land.

   d. Impact ofRedevelooment on Land Use- Pooulation Densities and Building Intensities.
       i. Large-Scale Master Plon
          The proposed large-scale master plan for the bulk ofthe Project Area is included in
          Appendix "D" and made a part of this plan. It indicates the type and location ofnew land
          uses and facilities to be introduced in the Project Area and the major new circulation
          routes that are planned for the area.

       ii. Impact of Redevelopment
          Redevelopment will be comprised ofdevelopment ofvacant areas in the Project Area and
          inrprovements to infrastructure in areas ofexisting development. This will result in
          increased population densities and increased building intensities as some ofthe planned
          development will be multi-story structures for both residential and nonresidential uses.

   e.@
       In order to provide maximum flexibility in the development of the Project Area, and to
       encourage and obtain the highest in quality development and design, specific development
       controls for the uses identified above are not set forth herein. Each development proposal in
       the Project Area will be subject to appropriate elements of Midvale City's General Plan; the
       Zoning Ordinance ofthe City; institutional controls, deed restrictions, other applicable
       building codes and ordinances ofthe City; and review and recommendation ofthe Midvale
       City Planning Commission and approval by the Agency.
       Properties participating in the redevelopment project which lie outside ofthe boundaries of
       the Superfund site and benefitting from the use ofRDA funds shall reflect the development
       pattem ofBingham Junction with respect to setbacks, building heighls, colors and materials,
       architecture, parking and landscaping as regulated by the intent statements or adopted
       ordinances in the adjacent sub-area.

       Development proposals shall be accompanied by site plans, development data and other
       appropriate material that clearly describe the extent ofdevelopment proposed, and any other
       data detemrined necessary or requested.

6. Reasons for Selection of Project Area
   a. The Project Area has been listed on the National Priority List ofthe U.S. Environmental
       Protection Agency -- it is subject to the requirements ofa Record of Decision ("ROD")
       which imposes a number ofconstraints on the redevelopment ofthe property including
       handling ofsoils and maintaining the isolation of contaminated soils from people,
       groundwater and olher propeniesl

   b. The property has been abandoned for more than 20 years;
   c   Because ofthe high levels of contamination and the fact that contaminated soils will remain
       on site beneath a cap or cover system there will be extraordinary costs associated with
       developing this property in the future. thus making it noncompetitive with altemative
       development properties within the Salt Lake Valley; and

   d. This Project Area, in conjunction with the Jordan Bluff Redevelopment Project Area that lies
       adjacent to it, contain more than 90 percent of Midvale's potentially developable land and
       will have a trenrendous impact on the long-ternr fiscal viability of the commr-rnity.
7. Description of Physical, Social, and Economic Conditions Existing in the Project Area
   'l'hc area has sufTelcd flom a lack of reiuvestnrent related to thc actual and pelceived
   environmental issues associated with the proposed Project Area. Property in the Project Area has
   lain vacant for more than 20 years. Property owners have endured a very intrusive EPA-
   sponsored environmental cleanup and fear that their properties have little value. There is
   inadequate or no infrastructure in the larger surrounding area comprised of roughly 650 acres.
   The remediation plan as imposed by the EPA cleans up the property but leaves it in a condition
   requiring extraordinary additional work and costs for redevelopnrent.

8. Description ofthe Specific Project that is the Object of Proposed Redevelopment
The proposed redevelopment Project Area is approximately 390 acres ofprivately- owned
property located in the City. The Project Area is currently vacant commercial and industrial and
is owned by the following property owners:




Property Address          Orvner Namc                             Acrcagc

6840 South 700 West       Littleson Inc.
                                                                  lt74.4q
7297 Sorrth lli00 West    Midvale City. E'f AL
                                                                  lo.so
7200 South Main St         Littleson lnc.                         48.03

852 West Center St        Littleson lnc.                                     44
                                                                  ltzt
NiA                       Oregon Shortline Railroad               5.54

NiA                       Oregon Shortline Railroad               5.54

NiA                       Oregon Shortline Railroad               3.67

7398 South Main St.            Soelio Distributing   Company
                          lDal                                    :t.47
7572 South Holden St.      Oregon Shortline Railroad              0.16

7420 South Main St.                 H. Pease Jr.                  2.20
                          lFloVd
7576 South Holden St.     Oregon Shortlinc Rai lroad              t.22

7576 South Holden St      Oregon Shortline Railroad               0.31

7576 South Holden St.     Oregon Shortline Railroad               0.2 5

7452 South I lolden St.             Flold H Jr.                   t.22
                          lPease.
7180 South Main St.        Butterfi eld Joint Venture             7    .t2

75 l0 South Main St.       Midvale Ciw                            0.74

7612 South Holden St.      Mining Remedial Recovery Co            9.24

7620 South Holden St.     Utah Power & Light Co.                  0.56

7652 South Holden St       Christenson, Harold E; ET AL                ,,
                                                                  lo
7660 South I lolden St     Dew, Lindsey P
                                                                  lo.o8
7660 South Holden St       Deu,, Lindsey P                        0.01

7660 South Holden St       Dew. Veda C: LIFE Dew. Lindsay    P
                                                                  lO.Zz
    The proposed project is a redevelopment project in that a large portion of the property is a
    Superfund site and has been unused since it was a smelter operation while the surrounding
    properties have been negatively impacted. The proposed project accomplishes the purposes of
    the Act in furthering redevelopment in the following ways:

         i. Retums an abandoned brownfield to productive use;
         ii. Creates housing for Midvale residents; and
         iii. Restores the integrity ofa once vital neighborhood.

    The real property located within the proposed Project Area is intended to be used for the
    construction ofresidential, comnrercial office, Iight industrial and open space.

 9. Redevelopment Purposes and Objectives
    i.     Strengthen the tax base and the economic health of Midvale City, and the entire State of
           Utah.
    ii.   Eliminate blight.
    lll.  Provide rehabilitation ofa Superfund site and return the vacated site to useful activity
          through construction of infrastructure.
    lv. Provide quality development to ensure the long-term physical and economic vitality the
          Bingham Junction Project Area.
          Reduce traffic hazards through appropriate site access.
    vi. Plan project parking, signage and pedestrian circulation to reduce veh ic lelpedestrian
          conflicts.
    vii. Plan and construct trails and other amenities to encourage recreational uses.
    viii. Encourage the use of mass transportation service to reduce traffic congestion and increase
          access to the Project Area.

10. How Proposed Redevelopment Activitics $'ill Reducc or Eliminate Blight,
    A large portion ofthe Project Area is blighted due to its status as a Superfund site regulated
    through CERCLA and SARA by the federal govemment. Superfund status has imposed
    extraordinary costs on development including increased costs of infrastructure and additional
    legal and engineering costs. Redevelopnrent will address the increased lunding necessary to
    prepare the area for developlnent activities.

11. How the Purposes of State Law Would Be Attained By the Redevelopment
    The purposes ofthe Act will be attained as a result ofthe proposed redevelopment project by
    accomplishing the following items:

    a      The Provision of Residential. Commercial. Industrial- Public or Anv Combination of These
           Uses

           The proposed redevelopnrent project is a nrixed-use developnrent containing residential.
        retail, office and light industrial uses. It will also conlain a station for the Mid-Jordan LRT
        line.

    b. 'l-he Plovision of PLrblic or Private Recreational Areas
        The proposed redevelopment project will enhance the City's open space and trails network
        with the addition ofroughly 85 acres ofopen lands. The project will also enhance public
        access and enjoyment of wetlands and other natural assets.

    c. I)r'ovisiorr of Public Infrastlucture
        The proposed redevelopment project will provide infrastructure into an area that has no or
        inadequate roads or other public infrastructure that will support future development.


12. Conformance of the Proposed Redevelopmcnt to thc Communitl's General Plan
    The Midvale City Planning Commission reviewed the plan on June 23, 2004 and offered the
    following recommendations/observations:
    a. Properties located on the boundary ofthe superfund site and included within and benefitting
        from the redevelopment area should be required to adhere to the same higher design
        standards.

    b. The Planning Commission adopted a motion acknowledging that the Bingham Junction Draft
        Redevelopment Plan comports with the Midvale City General Plan.

    c. A copy of the minutes of the Planning Commission meeting at which the plan was presented
        are included as Exhibit "E."

13. General Design Standards
    The design standards for uses in the Bingham Junction Mixed-Use Zone are detailed in Title l7
    "Zoning" ofthe Midvale City Code, ( 1988). ln general, the redevelopment ofthe Project Area
    will:
    a. Provide an attractive, urban environment:
    b. Blend harmoniously with the adjoining areas;
    c. Provide for open space;
    d. Reclaim an area that has not been available for development because ofenvironmental
        hazards and federal government oversight.

14. Use of Eminent Domain
       If the Agency chooses to obtain property in the Project Area through the use of enr inent domain,
       it will commence the acquisition of property through eminent domain no later than five years
       from the effective date ofthis plan.

15. OwnerParticipation
       Record owners ofproperty located within lhe Project Area shall be provided reasonable
       opportunities to participate in the ledevelopment. To lurlher this objective, the Agency has
       adopted '?a/es Governing Parlicipcttktn and Preferences by ()wners, Operator.s ofBusinesses,
       and Tenants in Redevelopnrcnt Projecl Areas Adopted by thc AgercT " (Resolution No. l/2112003
       B), "Rules Governing Relocation Assistonce for lhe Redevelopntent Agency of Midvale City"
       (Resolution No. l/2112003 C), and a "'Stalement of the Rights of Record Property Ov'ners Within
       Redevelopntent Project Areos Adoltted hy the Agency" (Resolution No. 3/4/2003 R-7).

t   6. Method of Selection of Private Dcvelopers to Undertake Redevelopment
       On January 21,2003, the Agency adopted '?z/es Governing Porticipation and Preferences by
       Owners, Operators of Businesses, and Tenants." These rules will be followed by the Agency in
       selecting private developers will be selected to underlake redevelopment with in the Project Area

17. Implementing the Plan
       This Project Area Redevelopment Plan shall be implemented as approved by the Agency.
       Implementation must commence no later than three years after the effective date of this plan.
       Techniques to implement the plan may include property acquisition, disposition. relocation and
       development. They are to be accomplished by:

       a   Acqu isit ion of Rcal Propertv

           The Agency may acquire, bul is not required to acquire, any real propefty located in the
           Project Area, by gift, devise, exchange. contract, purchase, or any lawful method including
           eminent domain. The Agency is not authorized to acquire any other interest in real property
           less than fee title-

       b. Aco rrisit ion ofPersonal Pronertv
           Cenerally, personal propefiy shall not be acquired. However, where necessary in the
           execution of this plan, the Agency is authorized to acquire personal properly in the Project
           Area by any lawful means.

       C   Coooeration with Public Bodies

           Certain public bodies are authorized by state law to aid and cooperate with or without
           consideration, in the planning, undertaking, financing, construction, or operation of this
           project. The Agency shall seek the aid and cooperation ofsuch public bodies in order to
           accomplish the purposes of redevelopment and the highest public good.
  The Agency, by law, is not authorized to acquire real property owned by public bodies
  without the consent ofsuch public bodies. The Agency, however, will seek the cooperation
  ofall public bodies which own or intend to acquire property in the Project Area. The
  Agency shall impose on all public bodies the planning and design controls contained in the
  plan to insure that present uses and any future development by public bodies will conform to
  the requirements ofthis plan.

d. Erplsgy-!4cle@!!
  During such time that property, ifany, in the Project Area is owned by the Agency, such
  property shall be under the management and control ofthe Agency. Such property may be
  rented or leased by the Agency pending its disposition for redevelopment.

e.@
  The Agency is authorized to demolish and clear buildings. structures. and other
  improvements from any real property in the Project Area as necessary to carry out the
  purposes of this plan. The Agency is authorized to install and construct or to cause to be
  installed and constructed the public improvements, public facilities, and public utilities,
  within the projects area, not prohibited by law which are necessary to carry out this plan.
  The Agency is authorized to prepare, or cause to be prepared as building sites, any real
  property in the Project Area. The Agency is also authorized to rehabilitate, or to cause to be
  rehabilitated, any building or structure in the Project Area. The Agency is also authorized
  and directed to advise, encourage, and assist in the rehabilitation ofproperty in the Project
  Area not owned by the Agency.

  For the purposes of this plan, the Agency is authorized to sell, lease, exchange, subdivide,
  transfer, assign, pledge, encumber by mortgage or deed oftrust, or otherwise dispose ofany
  interest in real property. The Agency is authorized to dispose ofreal property by leases or
  sales by negotiation with or without public bidding. All real property acquired by the
  Agency in the Project Area shall be sold or leased to public or private persons or entities for
  development as permitted in the plan. Real property may also be conveyed by the Agency to
  the City or any other public body without charge.

  The Agency shall reserve such controls in the disposition and development documents as
  nray be necessary to prevent transfer, retention, or use of propetty for speculative pttrposes
  and to insure that development is carried out pursuant to this plan. AU purchasers or lessees
  ofproperty shall be obligated to use the property for the purposes designated in this plan to
  begin and complete development of the property within a period of time which the Agency
  fixes as reasonable, and to comply with other conditions which the Agency deems necessary
  to carry o t the purposes of this plan.
f. Develooment
  To the maximum extent possible, objectives ofthe plan ale to be accomplished by private
  enterprise with Agency assistance and review. To provide adequate safeguards to ensure that
  the provisions of this plan will be carried out, all real property sold, leased, or conveyed by
         the Agency, as well as all property subject to participation agreements, shall be made subject
         to the provisions ofthis plan by leases, deeds, contracts, agreements, declarations of
         restrictions, provision of the City ordinance, conditional use permits, or other means. Where
         appropriate, as determined by the Agency, such documents or portions thereofshall be
         recorded in the Office ofthe County Recorder. The leases, deeds, contracts, agreements, and
         declarations ofrestrictions may contain restrictions. covenants. covenants running with the
         land, rights of reverter, conditions subsequent, equitable servitude, or any other provision
         necessary to carry out this plan.

         To the extent now or hereafter permitted by law, the Agency is authorized to pay for,
         develop, or construct any building, facility, structure, or other improvement either within or
         without the Project Area for itself or for any public body or public entity to the extent that
         such improvement would be ofbenefit to the project and is consistent with this plan. During
         the period ofdevelopment in the Project Area, the Agency shall insure that the provisions of
         this plan and ofother documents fomrulated pursuant to this plan are being observed. and
         that development in the Project Area is proceeding in accordance with development
         documents and time schedules. Development plans, both public and private. shall be
         submitted to the Agency for approval and architectural review. All development must
         confornr to this plan and all applicable federal, state, and local laws. For the purposes of this
         plan, the Agency is authorized to sell, Iease. exchange, transfer, assign, pledge, encumber,
         and otherwise dispose of personal property.

    g. l n teta -a ency Loans
         Subiect to Utah Code Ann. S I 7C- l-409( I Xd Trhe cr(}ieet+reeA qe rr c v nrav issue interra-
         agencv loans to suDDort revolvinp. loan orogram s tarseted within other oroiect areas. I'he
         rAqency will condLrct dLre dilisence and prudently issue all loans to ensure, to the best of ils
         abilities. that all loans are reoaid and that the Bin !! ham J unction RDAPTo ect Area is nradc
         u,hole. ljach intra-aqenc\ loan ntust be arrproved bv the RDA Board and the Citv Council and
         must be suonorted bv projecti ons thal Ag encr lunds will be strfficient to reDa\ lhe l()an
         amount.


18. Proiect Fin lncing
    a. fsdle@.s$-b.rc.b!els
         The redevelopment plan specifically incorporates the provisions oftax increment financing
         permitted by the Act, as more specifically set forth in $l7C-l-401.5of the Act.

    b.

         Before the Agency may collect tax increment from the Project Area, it shall undertake the
         following:
        i. Initiate the establishment of a taxing entity committee for the Project Area. The taxing
            entity committee shall be formed in accordance with $l7C-l-102 of the Act and shall
            exercise the powers set forth therein.

        ii. Prepare a Project Area budget.
        iii. Obtain majority consent of the taxing entity committee for the Project Area budget. The
            Project Area budget may be amended at the initiative ofthe Agency.

        The Agency may collect tax increment for all or part of the Project Area as provided in the
        Act. The Agency has elected to collect 80 percent of the annual tax increment for a period of
        25 years commencing from the first tax year the Agency accepts tax increment from the Project
        Area. The Agency will receive tax increment resulting from taxing entities'tax rate increases
        over the 25 year period in accordance with $l7C-l-404 Utah Code Annotated.

        Notwithstanding the increases or decreases in the tax rate of a taxing agency as described in
        F59-2-924.1 ofthe Act, as a result of:
            (i)   any statutes enacted by the Legislature, ajudicial decision, or an order from the
                  Utah State Tax Commission to a county to adjust or factor its assessmenl rate
                  pursuant to Subsection S59-2-704(2), UCA 1953 as amended:

            (ii) changes in exemptions provided in Arlicle XIII, $2. Utah Constitution, or $59-2-
                  103, UCA 1953 as amended: and

            (iii) any increases or decreases in the percentage of fair market value, as defined under
                  $59-2-102, UCA 1953 as amended, the anrount ofmoney allocated to, and when
                  collected paid to the Agency each year for payment ofbonds or other indebtedness
                  may not be less than would have been allocated to and when collected paid to the
                  Agency each year ifthere had been no increase or decrease.

19. Ilclocation Plan
     The Agency has adopted "Rules Governing Relocation Assistance for the Redevelopmenl Agency
     of Midvale Crry" (Resolution No. l/2112003 C). These rules shall govern the Agency's relocation
     assistance within the Project Area-

20, Review of Redevelopment Proposals
     Each redevelopment proposal by an owrrer participant or a developer shall be accompanied by
     site plans. development data and other appropriale nraterial that clearly describes the extent of
     redevelopnrent proposed, including land coverage, selbacks, height and massing ofbuildings.
     ofl'-stroet parking and loading, use of public transportation, and any other data deterntined to be
     necessary or requested by the Agency or the City.

21. Existing Buildings and Historic:rl Builclings
     II'thele are existing buildings in the Project Arca which would qualify as historical buildings, the
     redevelopment plan shall be in accordance with g9-8-404(l), UCA 1953, as amended.

22. l'rovisions for Amending Plan
     Thc ledevelopnrent plan may be anrended or modified any tinre by the Agency in the samc
     nlanner as ifthe anrendnrent or nrodification constituled a redevelopment plan being originally
     proposed or as provided in $ I 7C-4- I 08 of thc Act.
JORDAN BLUFFS PROJECT AREA REDEVELOPMENT PLAN




                Adopted August 10, 2004
                 Revised   _,     2021




          Redevelopment Agency of Midvale City
                                           TABLE OF CONTENTS

l. lntroduction                                                                                                               1-+



2. Recitals of Preconditions for Designating a Redevelopment Project Area..........-...                                       .l-l

3. Definitions....                                                                                                            l5
4. Description ofthe Proposed Redevelopment Area.....................                            ......................... 75

5. A Summary ofLand Use, Principal Streets, Population Densities, Building Intensities and the
         Large-Scale Master Plan for the Proposed Project Area Description ofthe Proposed
         Redevelopment Area                                                                                                   15


6.   Reasons for Selection of Project      Area...                                       .................................    El

7.   Description of Physical, Social, and Economic Conditions Existing in the Project Area .............. ES

8. Description ofthe Specific Project that is the Object ofProposed Redevelopment........................ 95
9. Redeveloprnent Purposes and Objectives..............
10. How Proposed Redevelopment Activities will Reduce or Eliminate B1ight............

I l. How the Purposes of State Law Would Be Attained By the Redevelopment                                                    I06

12. Conformance of the Proposed Redevelopment to the Community's Ceneral Plan ....................... l0?

13. General Design Standards                                                                                 ........... l

I4. Use of Erninent Domain.................                                                             ................ ?

I 5. Owner Participation                                                                                                       7

16. Method of Selection of Private Developers to Undertake Redeveloprnent...........-........................ L I               ;
I7. Irnplerrcntingthe Plan...................                                                                                t_18




                                                                                                                             5.1+


20. Revierv of Redevelopment Proposals .....

21. Irxisting BLrildings ancl I listorical Buildings.............

22. Provisions tbr Anrending P1an......................
                                  1'ABLE OF EXHIBITS

Supporting Documents....,

Map of the Project Area.                               B

Existing Land Use Map ..                               C

Large Scale Master Plan Map                            D

Minutes ofthe Planning Conrmission, lune 23,2004       E
l. I ntroduction
   The Board of Directors of the Redevelopment Agency of Midvale City have determined that
   the Jordan Bluffs Project Area ("Project Area") needs rehabilitation and development to help
   ensure a viable economic life for the community- The proposed redevelopment plan envisions
   that public, residential, commercial, office. light-industlial and open space uses will be
   developed in the Project Area. This plan will guide and control the redevelopment
   undertakings in the Jordan Bluffs Project Area.

2. Recitals of Preconditions for Designating a Redevelopment Project Area
   a   Pursuant to the provisions of $ I 7C-4- I 0 I .5 of the Redevelopment Agencies Act ("Act"),
       the governing body ofthe Redevelopment Agency of Midvale City ("Agency") designated
       by resofution a redevelopment survey area on November 12,2002. The governing body
       found that the survey area required study to determine whether or not one or more
       redevelopment projects were feasible and contained a description and map of the
       boundaries ofthe survey area; and

   b. Pursuant to the provisions of $ I 7C-4- 102 ofthe Act. a blight survey was completed
       within one year of the year from the date of authorization; and

   c   Pursuant to $ l7C-4-102 ofthe Act, the Agency made a finding ofblight at a Blight
       Hearing held on August 26, 2003; and

   d. Pursuant to the provisions of $ l7C-4- 102( l)(a) ofthe Act, Midvale City has a planning
       commission and a general plan as required by law; and

       Pursuant to the provisions of $ I 7C-4- I 02 of the Act, on the Agency's own motion, the
       Agency selected the Project Area hereinafter described comprising all or part ofthe
       proposed survey area: and

   f. Pursuant to the provisions of $ I 7C-4- 102 ofthe Act, the Agency has conducted one or
       more public hearings for the purpose of informing the public about the proposed Project
       Area, allowing public input into the Agency's deliberations and consideratiotts regarding
       the proposed Project Area. A public input hearing was held on January 6,2004.

3. Definitions
   As used in this Redevelopment Project Plan:

   a. "Act" means the Redevelopment Agencies Act as found in Title l7C Chapter l,'Utah
       Code Annotated 1953, as amended, orsuch other amendments as shall from time to time be
       enacted or any successor law or act.


   b. "Agency" means the Redevelopment Agency of Midvale City as designated by the City to
       act as the redevelopment agency.
     rrBase tax amount" nreans the taxable value ofthe properry within
C                                                                          a project area from
     which tax increment will be collected, as shown upon the assessment roll last equalized
     before the date ofthe taxing entity committee's approval olthe first project area budget.

d. "ntigtrt" or "blighted" means the condition ofan area that meets the requirements of
     Subsection I 7C-2-30lof the Act.

     "Blight study" nreans a study to determine the existence or nonexistence ofblight within a
     survey area as provided in Section I 7C-2-301 of the Act.

              means any bonds, notes, interim certificates, debentures or other obligations
     issued by the Agency;


g. "City" means Midvale City.
h. "Communitv" means the Citv
     "Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act" or
                  commonly known as Superfund. nreans the law enacted by Congress on
     December I l, 1980. This law created a tax on the chenrical and petroleum industries and
     provided broad Federal authority to respond direclly to releascs or threatened releases of
     hazardous substances that nray endanger public health or the environnrent

i.    "lnterra-agencv Loan" is a loan liorn one Droiect area to another rvhich the RDA Board
     and ('itr Council both approrc u: p rovided in Section I 7C- l-409( I Xd) of the Act.-
     Pprovided the oroiection lbr agencv tunds are sufficient to rc'pa]. llre l0an amount

;!."Legislative body" nreans the City Councilof Midvale City which is the legislative
     body of the community.

li--"Planning commission" means the Midvale City Planning Commission
     established pursuant to law or charter.
t.


l,nr.     "Project area" nreans the geographic area described in a project area plan or draft
     project area plan where the redevelopment set forth in this project area plan will take place.

nr'.rr. "Project area budget" means a multi-year projection ofannual or cumulative
     revenues and expenses and other fiscal matters pertaining to tlre redevelopment project area
     that includes:
       i. the base taxable value ofproperty in the project area;
       ii. the projected tax increnrent expected to be generated within the project area;
       iii. the amount oftax increnrent expected to be shared with other taxing entities;
       iv. the amount oftax increment expected to be used to implentent the project area platr,
            including the estintated anrount of tax increment to be used for land acquisition,
            public improvements, infrastructurc improvements, and loans, grants, or other
            incentives to private and public entities; and
            the tax increment expected to be used to cover the cost of administering the project
            area plan.

t+,,r. 'rProject area plan" means a written plan that, after its effective date, guides
      and controls the redevelopment activities within the project area.


.*.p-" Redevelopment" means the development activities under this project area plan
      within a redevelopment project area, including:
        i. planning, design, development, demolition, clearance, construction, rehabilitation,
            or any combination ofthese, of part or all ofa project area;
        ii. the provision ofresidential, commercial, industrial, public, or other structures or
            spaces, including recreational and other facilities incidental or appurtenant to them;
       iii. altering, improving modemizing, demolishing clearance, construction,
            rehabilitation, or any combination ofthese, ofpart or all ola project area
       iv. providing open space, including streets and other public grounds and space around
            buildings;
       v. providing public or private buildings, infrastructure, structures, and improvements;
            and
        vi. providing improvements of public or private recreation areas and other public
            grounds-

                      tloan Pprogram" ref'ers to any initiative wherebl the Agenc\ loans
   reMep*lentagencl lunds to a third Dartv. The lemrs of the loan require repaYnrent to
-$Rcvolving
      the Alrency, and repaid funds a re tvpicallv replenished and reinl'ested into the initiative
q.

                                                                         rrSARA. means the law
ng "Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act" or
      adopted by Congress on October 17, 1986. SARA reflected EPA's experience in
      administering the complex Superfund program during its first six years and made
      several important changes and additions to the program.

     - "Survev area" r'neans an area designated by a resolution adopted by the Agency Board for
      study to detclnrine u,hether a plo.iect or projects \\,ithirr the alea are I'easible.

i,q "Taxes" includes all levies on an ad valorem basis upon land, real propeny.
      personal propeny. or any olher property. tangible or intangible.

r-q"Taxing entity" means a public entity that levies a tax on property within the
      project area.

rr "Taxing entity committee" means a comnrittee representing the interests of taxing
      entities and consists of two representatives appointed by the Jol'dan School District, two
      representatives appointed by resolution ofthe Midvale City Council, two represelltatives
      appoirrted by the Salt Lake County Mayor, oue representative appointed by the State
      School Board and one representative ofthe rerraining governing bodies ofthe other
        local taxing agencies.

   t.rr     rrfsa increment" nteans the difference between the amount ofproperty tax revenues
        generated each tax year by all taxing entities from the area within a project area
        designated in the project area plan as the area from which tax increment is to be collected,
        using the currenl assessed value ofthe property and the amount ofproperty tax revenues
        thal would be generated fronr that sante area using the base tarable value ofthe property.

4. Description ofthc Proposed Redevelopment Are:r
   a. Mao of the Proiect Area
        The map ofthe Project Area is attached in the Appendix, Exhibit "B" and incorporated
        here in.


5. A Summary of Land Use, Principal Streets, Population Densities, Building Intensities
   and the Large-Scale Master Plan for the Proposed Project Area Description ofthe
   Proposed Redevelopment Area

   a    F-ristir!: l-and [ ]se Mao

        A nrap ofexisting land uses in the Project Area is included in Appendix "C" and made a
        pafi ofthis plan. It indicates the layout of principal streets serving the area.

   b. PonulationDensities
       The area population can be characterized as low-density.

   c. Buildinq Intensities
        Buildings in the area are generally single-story, detached single family or conrnrercial
        structures. The majority of the area is a former Superfund site which is vacant land.

   d. lnroact of redeveloornent on land use. oonulation densities and buildinq intensities.
       i. Lru"ge-Scale Masler Plqn

          The ploposed large-scale master plan lbr the bulk ofthe Project Area is included in
          Appendix "D" and made a part ofthis plan. lt indicates the type and location ofnew land
          uses and facilities to be introduced in the Project Area and the major new circulation
          routes that are planned for the area.

       ii. lnprct of Redevelopnent
          Redevelopment will be comprised ofdeveloprnent olvacant areas in the Pro-iect Area
          and improvements to inft'astnrcture in areas of existing development. This will result in
          increased population densities and increased building intensities as sonle of thc planned
          development will be multi-story structures fbr both residential and nonresidential uses.

   C      Standards (luicl ine f)evelopntcnt

          In order to provide maximum flexibility in the developnrent ol'lhe Project Area,
          and to encourage and obtain the highest quality in developnrent and design, specific
          development controls for the uses identified above are not set fofih herein. Each
          development proposal in the Project Area will be sLrbject to appropriate elenrents of
          Midvale City's General Plan; the Zoning Ordinance of the City: institutional
          controls, deed restrictions, other applicable building codes and ordinances ofthe
          City; and review and reconrmendation of the Midvale City Planning Comnrission
          and approval by the Agency.

          Properties participating in the redevelopment project which lie outside ofthe
          boundaries ofthe Superfund site and benefitting from the use ofRDA funds shall
          reflect the development pattem ofJordan Bluffs with respect to setbacks, building
          heights, colors and materials, architecture, parking and landscaping as regulated by
          the intent statements or adopted ordinances in the adjacent sub-area.

          Development proposals shall be accompanied by site plans, development data and
          other appropriate material that clearly describe the extent of development proposed,
          and any other data determined necessary or requested.

6. Reasons for Selection of Project Area
   a.     The Project Area has been listed on the National Priority List ofthe U.S.
          Environmental Protection Agency -- it is subject to the requirements ofa Record of
          Decision ("ROD") which imposes a number of constraints on the redevelopment of
          the property including handling ofsoils and maintaining the isolation of
          contaminated soils from people, groundwater and other properties;

   b.     The property has been abandoned for more than 25 years;

   c      Because ofthe high levels of contanr ination and the fhct that contaminated soils
          will remain on site beneatlr a cap or cover system there will be extraordinary costs
          associated with developing this propefly in the lirture, thus nraking it
          noncompetitive with altelnative developnrent properties within the Salt Lake
          Valley; and

   d      This Project Area, in conjunction with the Bingham Jurlction Redevelopment-
          Project Area that lies adjacent to it, contain ntore than 90 percent of Midvale's
          potentially developable land and will have a tremendous impacl on the long-term
          fiscal viability of the community.

7. Description ofPhysical, Social, and Economic Conditions Existing in the Project
   Area
   The area has suffered from a lack of reinvestnrent related to the actual and perceived
   environmental issues associated with the proposed Projecl Area. Property in the Project
   Area has lain vacant for more than 25 years. Propefty owners have endured a very intrusive
   EPA- sponsored environmental clean up and lear that lheir properties have little value.
   There is inadequate or no infrastructure in the larger surrounding area comprised ofroughly
   650 acres. Some residential properties in the area have been the sites of frequent police
   intervention. The remediation plan as imposed by the EPA cleaned up the property but left
   it in a condition requiring massive amounts of extraordinary additional fill material and
   infrastructure costs for redevelopment.

8. Dcscription of the Specific Project that is thc Object of Proposed Redevelopment
   The proposed redevelopment Project Area is approxinrately 268 acres of privately-
   owned property located in the City. The Project Area is currently residential, vacant,
   commercial and is owned by the following property owners:

        Propert-y Address                    Orvner Name                     Acreage
   7832 South Holden St      Neilson, Van At ET AL                        0.01
   7832 South Holden St      Neilson, Van A & McDougal, Gary:TC           0.24
   83 I West Lennox St.      Pelerson. V Robert & Judy M: JT              0.45
   7880 South tlo lden St    Seal. Randal & Connie: JT                    0.22
   799 West Wasalch St # I - Defa. Richard                                0.93
   8001 South Woodgate Cir. HJA Rentals. I nc.                            t.l7
   8 196 South Main St.      Midvale City Corp                            2.27
   8 I 96 South Main St      Midvale City Corfr                           0.r8
   7746 South Holden Street
   8056 South Main St.       Jordan Bluf fi. LLC                          262.29

   The proposed project is a redevelopment project in that a large portion ofthe property is
   a Superfund site and has been unused since Sharon Steel closed while the surrounding
   properties have been negatively impacted. The proposed project accomplishes the
   purposes of the Act in furthering redevelopment in the following ways:

          Retums an abandoned brownfield to productive usel
          Creates housing for Midvale residents; and
          Restores the integrity ofa once vital neighborhood.

   The real property located within the proposed Project Area is intended to be used for the
   construction of residential, commercial, of'fi ce.

9. lledevelopment Purposes and Objectives
          Strengthen the tax base and the economic health of Midvale, City, and the entire
          State of Utah.
          Eliminate blight.
          Provide rehabilitation of a Superfund site and retum the vacated site to useful
                   activity through construction of infrastructure.
                   Provide quality developnrent to ensure the long-term physical and economic
                   vitality ofthe Jordan Bluffs Project Area Project Area.
                   Reduce traffic hazards through appropriate site access.
                   Plan project parking, signage and pedestrian circulation to reduce
                   vehicle/pedestrian confl icts.
       vll.        Plan and construct trails and other amenities to encourage recreational uses.
      v iii.       Encourage the use of nrass transportation service to reduce traffic congestion and
                   increase access to the Project Area.


10. Horv Proposcd Redcvelopment Activities *ill llcducc or Eliminatc Blight
      A large portion ofthe Project Area is blighted due to its status as a Superfund site
      regulated through CERCLA and SARA by the. federal govemment. Superfund status has
      imposed extraordinary costs on development including increased costs of infrastructure
      and additional legal and engineering costs. Redevelopment will address the increased
      funding necessary to prepare the area for development activities.

ll.   How the Purposes ofState Law Would Bc Attained By the Redevelopment

      The purposes ofthe Act will be attained as a result ofthe proposed redevelopment
      project by accomplishing the following items:

      a. The Provision of Residential. Commercial. Industrial. Public or Anv Conrbination of
               These Uses

               The proposed redevelopment project is a mixed-use development containing public,
               residential, retail, office and light industrial uses.

      b.

               The ploposed redevelopnrent project will enhance the City's open space and trails
               network with the addition ofroughly 52 acres ofopen lands. The project will also
               enhauce public access and eujoyment ofwetlands and other natulal assets.

      c        Prov is iorr of I)rrbIic Inliaslr'trctrrrc

               The proposed redevelopment project will provide infrastructure into an area that has
               no or inadequate loads or otlrer public infrastnrcture that will support future
               development.

12. Conform:rnce of the Proposcd Redcvclopnrent to thc Community's Gcneral Plan
      The Midvale City Planning Conrmission reviewed the plan on June 23,2004 and
      offered the fol lowing recomnrendations/observations:
    A copy of the minutes of the Planning Commission meeting at which the plan was
    presented are included as Exhibit "8."

13, General Design Standards
    The design, standards, for uses in the Jordan Bluffs Mixed-Use Zone are detailed in
    Title l7 "Zoning" of the Midvale City Code, (1988). In general, the redevelopment of
    the Project Area will:

    a. Provide an attractive, urban environment;
    b. Blend harmoniously with the adjoining areas;
    c. Provide for open space;
    d. Reclaim an area that has not been available for development because of
          environmental hazards and federal government oversight.

14. Use of Eminent Domain
    lfthe Agency chooses to obtain property in the Project Area through the use of
    eminent domain, it willcommence the acquisition of property through eminent
    domain no later than five years from the effective date of this plan.

15. OwnerParticipation
    Record owners ofproperty located within the Project Area shall be provided
    reasonable opportunities to participate in the redevelopment. To further this
    objective, the Agency has adopted "Rules Governing Participation and Preferences
    by Avner8 Operators of Businesses, and Tenants in Redevelopmenl Projecl Areas
    Adopted by the Agerry" (Resolution No. l/21i2003 B), "Rules Governing Relocation
    Assislance .for the Redevelopment Agency of Midvale Cif," (Resolution No:'
    l/21/2003 C), and a "Stalenent of the Rights o/ Record Properly Owtters l4/ithin
    Reelevelopment Project Areas Aclopted by the Agency" (Resolution No. 3/4/2003 R-
    7).

16. Method of Selection of Private Developers to Undertake Redevelopment
    On January 21,2003, the Agency adopted "Rules Governing Participation and
    Preferences by Owners, Operators ofBusinesses, and Tenants." These rules will be
    followed by the Agency in selecting private developers who to undertake
    redevelopment within the Ploject Area.


I7. Implementing thc Plan
This Project Area Redevelopment Plan shall be implemented as approved by the
Agency. lnrplementation must commence no later than three years after the effective
date of this plan. Techniques to implement the plan may include properly acquisition,
disposition, relocation and development. They are to be accomplished by:

a- Aco uis ition ofReal Prooertv

  The Agency may acquire, but is not required to acquire, any real property located in
  the Project Area, by gift, devise, exchange, contract, purchase, or any lawful method
  including eminent domain. The Agency is not authorized to acquire any other
  interest in real property less than fee title.

b. Acouisition of Personal Prooertv

  Generally, personal property shall not be acquired. However, where necessary
  in the execution of this plan, the Agency is authorized to acquire personal
  propefiy in the Project Area by any lawful means.




  Certain public bodies are authorized by state law to aid and cooperate, with or
  without consideration, in the planning, undertaking, financing, construction, or
  operation of this project. The Agency shall seek the aid and cooperation ofsuch
  public bodies in order to accomplish the purposes of redevelopment and the highest
  public good.

  The Agency, by law, is not authorized to acquire real propeny owned by public
  bodies without the consent ofsuch public bodies. The Agency, however, will
  seek the cooperation ofall public bodies which own or intend to acquire propefiy
  in tl.re Project Area. The Agency shall impose on all public bodies the planning
  and design controls contained in the plan to insure that present uses and any
  future development by public bodies will confomr to the requirements of this
  plan.

d. Propertv Management

  During such time that property, ifany, in the Project Area is owned by the
  Agency, such property shall be under the management and control ofthe Agency.
  Such property may be rented or leased by the Agency pending its disposition for
  redevelopment.

e. ProDefiv Disoositio n and Develonment

  The Agency is authorized to demolish and clear buildings, structures, and othet'
  inrprovements from any real property in the Project Area as necessary to carry out
  the purposes ofthis plan. The Agency is authorized to install and constrrct or to
  cause to be installed and constructed the public improvements, public facilities, and
  public utilities, within the project area, not prohibited by law which are necessary to
  carry out this plan. The Agency is authorized to prepare, or cause to be prepared as
  building sites, any real property in the Project Area. The Agency is also authorized
  to rehabilitate, or to cause to be rehabilitated, any building or structure in the Project
  Area. The Agency is also authorized and directed to advise, encourage, and assist in
  the rehabilitation ofproperty in the Project Area not owned by the Agency. For the
  purposes ofthis plan, the Agency is authorized to sell, lease, exchange, subdivide,
  transfer; assign, pledge, encumber by mortgage or deed oftrust, or otherwise
  dispose of any intelest in real property. The Agency is authorized to dispose of real
  propefty by leases or sales by negotiation with or without public bidding. Allreal
  property acquired by the Agency in the Project Area shall be sold or leased to public
  or private persons or entities for development as permitted in the plan. Real property
  may also be conveyed by e Agency to the City or any other public body without
  charge.

  The Agency shallreserve such controls in the disposition and development
  documents as may be necessary to prevent transfer, retention, or use of property for
  speculative purposes and to insure that development is carried out pursuant to this
  plan. All purchasers or lessees ofproperty shall be obligated to use the property for
  the purposes designated in this plan, to begin and complete development ofthe
  propedy within a period of time which the Agency fixes as reasonable, and to
  comply with other conditions which the Agency deems necessary to carry out the
  purposes of th is plan.

f. Develooment
  To the maximum extent possible, objectives ofthe plan are to be accomplished by
  private enterprise with Agency assistance and review. To provide adequate
  safeguards to ensure that tlre provisions of this plan will be carried out, all real
  propefty sold, leased, or conveyed by the Agency, as well as all property subject to
  participation agreements, shall be made subject to the provisions of this plan by
  leases, deeds, contracts, agreenlents, declarations ofrestrictions, provision ofthe City
  ordinance, conditional use pernrits, ol other nreans. Where appropriate, as deternrined
  by the Agency, such documents or portions thereof shall be recorded in the Office of
  the County Recorder. The leases, deeds, contracts, agreements, and declarations of
  restrictions nray conlain restrictions, covenants, covenants lunning with the land,
  rights of revefier, conditions subsequent, equitable servitude, or any other provision
  necessary to carry oul this plan.

  To the extent now or hereafter permitted by law, the Agency is authorized to pay for,
  develop, or construct any building, facility, structure, or otltel' improvement either
  within or without the Project Area for itselfor lor any public body or public entity to
  the extent that such improvement would be of benefit to the project and is consistent
  with this plan. Duling the period ofdevelopment in the Project Area, the Agency
         shall insure that the provisions of this plan and ofother documents formulated
         pursuant to this plan are being observed, and that development in the Project Area is
         proceeding in accordance with development documents and time schedules.
         Development plans, both public and
          lrlirlte. slrall he srrhrrriltcd l() ll)c n qcnc\ lil lrtrtrlrrrirl urrtl alelritcclulal rericrr. All
         develooment nrust confbrnr to this olan and all apolicable tederal, stale. alel !oea[
         laws. For the purposes ofthis olan. the As cncr is aLrthorizc-d to sell. lease. exchange.
         transt'er. assign. pledge, encunrber, and otherw ise disoose ofoersonal DroDert\

    g. Interra-aeency Loans
         Subiect to Utah Code Ann. { I 7C- l -409( lXd), +the €fobef-€reaAeeoeu[ay issuq
         interra-aqency loans to supporl revolving loan pro.qrari1s latgglEd !ryilhll qthgt i!!L
         areas. The aAsencv will conduct due dilige nce and nrudentlv issue all loans to ensure.
         lo the best oI its abilities- that all loans are reoaitl arrd that the 8ia*$a+n-J+ne+ie*
         RDAJordan BlutTs Proiect Area is made whole. Each intra-aqenc! loan must be
         aooroved bv the RDA Board and the Citv Council and must be suooorted bl
           ro ections that A ency funds will be suf'ficient to repa v the loan amount


18. Project Financing
    a. fsrJ-Esp!.s4-Prq.isi.
          The redevelopment plan specifically incorporates the provisions oftax increment
          financing permitted by the Act, as more specifically set forth in $l7C-l-401.5.


    b.

          Before the Agency may collect tax increment from the Project Area, it shall undertake
          the following:

         i. Initiate the establishment of a taxing entity committee for the Project Area. The
             taxing entity committee shall be formed in accordance with $ l7C- l- l02of the
             Act and shall exercise the powers set forth therein.

          ii. Prepare a Project Area budget.

         iii. Obtain majority consent of the taxing entity committee for the Project Area
             budget. The Project Area budget may be arnended at the irritiative ofthe
             Agency.

          The Agency nray collect tax increment fbr all or parl ofthe Project Area as provided
          in the Act. The Agency has elected to collect 100 percent ofthe annual tax
          increment for a period of25 years conrmencing front the first tax year the Agency
          accepts tax increment front the Project Area. The Agency will rebate to each ofthe
          taxing entities 20% ofthe ta-x: increment they otherwise wotlld have received. The
        Agency will receive tax increment resulting from taxing entities'tax rate increases
        over the 25 year period in accordance with $l7C-l-404 Utah Code Annotated.

        Notwithstanding the increases or decreases in the tax rate of a taxing agency as
        described in $59-2-924.1 of the Act, as a result of:

            (i) any statutes enacted by the Legislature, ajudicial decision, or an order
                from the Utah State Tax Commission to a county to adjust or factor its
                assessment rate pursuant to Subsection 59-2-704(2), UCA 1953 as
                amended:

            (ii) changes in exemptions provided in Article Xlll, $2, Utah Constitution, 6r
                 $59-2- 103, UCA 1953 as amended; and any increases or decreases in
                the percentage of fair market value, as defined under $59-2-102, UCA
                1953 as amended,


            the amount ofmoney allocated to, and when collected paid to the Agency each
            year for payment of bonds or other indebtedness may not be less than would have
            been allocated to and when collected paid to the Agency each year ifthere had
            been no increase or decrease.

19. Relocation Plan
     The Agency has adopted "Rules Governing Relocation Assislance for the
     Redevelopment Agency of Midvale Ci4, " (Resolution No. l/2 I /2003 C). These rules
     shall govern the Agency's relocation assistance within the Project Area.


20. Review of Redevelopment Proposals
      Each redevelopment proposal by an owner participant or a developer shall be
      accompanied by site plans, development data and other appropriate material that
      clearly describes the extent of redevelopment proposed, including land coverage,
      setbacks, height and massing of buildings, off-street parking and loading, use of
      public transportation, aud any othcr data determincd to be ttecessary or requested by
      the Agency or the City.


21. Existing Buildings and Historical Buildings
      Ifthere are existing buildings in the Project Area which would qualify as historical
      buildings, the redevelopment plan shall be in accordance with Subsection 9-8-404(l),
      UCA 1953, as amended.

22. Provisions for Amending Plan
      The redevelopnrent plan may be amended or modified any time by the Agency in thc
      same manner as if the amendment or n.rodification constituled a redeveloplnent plan
being originally proposed or as provided in $ I 7C-4- I 08 of the Act
        Main Street
   Community Development
      Project Area PIan



            Adopted November 17, 2015
             Amended ,2021



                          O;'

       hl

     F
      hr
      rt             I                  F\
                                        ril
                                         ,.
                                         l.a

     z,                                  z
                                        o
               D VALE C' I7
                                        r
    l,-/         tst     1909           \)




              Prepared by:
The Redevelopment Agency of Midvale City
          with a ssista n ce from
         Smith Hartvigsen, PLLC
                                             Table of Contents


L.          lntroduction, Adoption of Project Area Plan                                                    -1-

2.         Community Development Proiect Area Boundaries                                                       2


3.   _.    Summary of Existing Land Use, Principal Streets, Population Densities -a{id& Building lntensities
          3 --3+-


4.         Standards That Will Guide Community Development                                                 - 5 --J-4-


5.          Description of How Purposes of the Act Will be Attained                                        - 5 --35-


6.         Conformance of the CDA to the Community's General Plan                                          - 6 -4-5-


7.         Specific Project Outline and lts Potential for Job Creation                                     -7      -5{-
8.         Selection of Participant(s)                                                                     -9

9.          Reasons for Selection of Project Area                                                          -9

10. Description of Physical, Social/Economic Conditions Existing in the Proiect Area                       -9      -58-
LL. Tax lncentives Offered to Private Entities for Development within the Proiect Area                     - 10 --43



L2        Analysis of Anticipated Public Benefits from the Community Development                           - 11 --fe



13. Exhibits                                                                                               - 11 -{l
    l.     lntroduction, Adoption of Project Area Plan
    The Board of the Redevelopment Agency of Midvale City (also referenced herein as the "Agency")
    requested that the Agency hire consultants and staff to prepare a Community Development
    Pro.iect Area Plan pursuant to the provisions of Chapters l and 4 of the Utah Community
    Development and Renewal Agencies Act, Title 17C of the Utah Code Annotated 1953, as a mended
    (the "Act"). The requirements of the Act, including notice and hearing obligations, have been
I
    scrupulously observed at all times throughout the establishment of the Project, the Project Area,
    and this Plan. This Community Development Project Area Plan (the "Project Area Plan" or the
I
    "Plan") is for a project i+he 'rPrej€€tl'r located entirely within the boundaries of Midvale City. The
    specific boundaries and proposed development that will occur within these boundaries are all
I
    set forth in this Project Area Plan the "Pro ect" . This Plan sha ll be titled "Main Street Community
    Development Project Area Plan" adopted on November 76,201,5.

    A map of the Community Development Area project area ("CDA") is included as Exhibit A.

    The Redevelopment Agency of Midvale City has determined that the project area meets the
    criteria for creation of a CDA. The area offers the opportunity to encourage redevelopment in the
    heart of the City that will attract private capital investment, contribute to the tax base, create
    jobs, preserve Historic Main Street and otherwise contribute to the economic vitality and
    prosperity of Midvale City.

    Creation of the CDA will allow Midvale City the opportunity to offer incentives and encourage
I
    development along and around Main Street. The Project Area includes a diverse variety of
    buslnesses and commercial uses as well as residential and offers multiple opportunities for
    economic development and improvements to the City.

    This document is prepared in good faith as a current reasonable estimate of the economic impact
    of this Project. Fu ndamental economic and other circu mstances may influence the actua I impact.
    With these assumptions, the information contained within this report represents the reasonable
    expectations of the Project.

    The ordering of sections of this Project Area Plan document is consistent with the presentation
    of requirements and other criteria for CDA development as set forth in Utah Code 5 17C-4-103.

    Contacts:              Redevelopment Agency of Midvale City
                           ge+ny-wal:
                                                    Redevelop ment Agencv Manager
                           7505 S. Holden St.
                           Midvale, Uf 84047
                           Office Phone: 801-567 -7 2OO




     1


                                                                                   MIDVALE
                                                                    @          ln tlrc Middle ol Everylhin{
                      Smith Hartvigsen, PLLC
                      J. Craig Smith
                      Adam S. Long
                      175 S. Main Street, Suite 300
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84111
                      Office Phone: 801-413-1500
                      icsm ith @ smith law online.com
                      along@smithlawonline.com


2,     Community Development Project Area Boundaries

The project area is located within Mldvale City, Utah and is approximately 117 acres (the "Project
Area"). A map of the Project Area is attached as Exhibit A and incorporated herein (the "Project
Area Map").

The parcels contained within the Project Area are listed in Exhibit B.

                                        Legal Description

       A parcel of land being located in the West half of Section 25 and the East half of
       Section 26, Township 2 South, Range 1West, Salt Lake Base & Meridian, being
       described as follows:

       Commencing at the northwest corner of said section 25, thence S0"19'02"W, a
       distance of 2,519.83 feet; thence N89'40'58"W, a distance of 53.00 feet to the
       westerly line of 700 West Street (Holden Street), said point also being the point of
       beginning; thence N00'19'02"E along said westerly line, a distance of 1,4L3.89
       feet to the intersection of the northerly line of 7200 South Street; thence along
       said northerly line the following (7) calls: 1)thence 589'49'28"E, a distance of
       569.40 feet to a point of a curve to the right having a radius of 23,028.31feet and
       a centralangle of 00"25'14"; 2) thence easterly along the arc a distance of L69.07
       feet, (chord bears 589"36'51"E, a distance of 169.07 feet); 3) thence 579'52'36"E,
       a distance of 60.89 feet;4) thence S00"18'32"W, a distance of 14.00 feet;5)
       thence 587"53'32"E, a distance of 549.93 feet; 6) thence N06"55'15"E, a distance
       of 20.57 feet to the point of a non-tangent curve to the right, of which the radius
       point lies 502"07'12"W, a radial distance of 23,018.31 feet; 7) thence easterly
       along the arc, through a central angle of 00"15'12", a distance of 101.79 feet,
       (chord bears 587" 45't2" E, a distance of 101.79 feet) to the westerly line of l-15;
       thence along said westerly line the following (7) calls: 1) thence S10"37'29"W, a
       distance of 5.83 feet; 2) thence S12'11'40"W, a distance of 191.41 feet; 3) thence
       510"38'11"W, a distance of 1,768.44 feet to a point of a curve to the left having a
       radius of 4,309.99 feet and a central angle of 18'43'12"; 4) thence southerly along
       the arc a distance of 1-,408.18 feet, (chord bears S01"16'35"W, a distance of

_) _
                                                                            MIDVALE
                                                              @          ln lhe Middle ol Everythinr
       1,401.93 feet); 5) thence 508'05'01"E, a distance of 316.45 feet;5) thence
       508"39'29'E, a distance of 164.63 feeu 7) thence 507'06'58"E, a distance of 24.35
       feet to the intersection of the southerly line of Center Streeu thence along said
       southerly line the following (6) calls: 1) thence N88'30'33"W, a distance of 559.73
       feet; 2) thence S84"43'00"W, a distance of 526.65 feet; 3) thence S85'04'00"W, a
       distance of 533.05 feet to a point of a curve to the right having a radius of
       11,508.66 feet and a central angle of 01"18'00"; 4) thence westerly along the arc
       a distance of 261.12 feet, (chord bears S85"43'00"W, a distance of 261.12 feet); 5)
       thence 585"22'00"W, a distance of 37.50 feet to a point of a curve to the left
       having a radius of 17,409.70 feet and a central angle of 00"02'05"; 6) thence
       westerly along the arc a distance of 5.92 feet, (chord bears S85'20'57"W, a
       distance of 6.92 feet) to the intersection of the westerly line of Holden Street (700
       West Street); thence along said westerly line the following (8) calls: 1) thence
       N00"22'02"E, a distance of 263.05 feet to a point of a curve to the right having a
       radius of 573.87 feet and a central angle of 34"46'59"; 2) thence northerly along
       the arc a distance of 348.39 feet, (chord bears N17'45'32"E, a distance of 343.06
       feet); 3) thence N35"09'02"E, a distance of 82.37 feet to a point of a curve to the
       left having a radius of 467.87 feet and a central angle of 30'00'01"; 4) thence
       northerly along the arc a distance of 244.98 feet, (chord bears N20"09'01"E, a
       distance of 242.79 feet); 5) thence N05'09'02"E, a distance of 493.94 feet to a
       point of a curve to the right having a radius of 573.87 feet and a central angle of
       31"29'59";6) thence northerly along the arc a distance of 315.50 feet, (chord
       bears N20'54'01"E, a distance of 311.54 feet); 7) thence N36'39'02"8, a distance
       of 298.47 feet to a point of a curve to the left having a radius of 1,092.92 feet and
       a central angle of 36"20'00"; 8) thence northerly along the arc a distance of 693.06
       feet, (chord bears N18'29'02"E, a distance of 581.51 feet) to the POINT OF
       BEGINNING,


       Contains: 5,598,471square feet or 128.523 acres, more or less



3.     Summary of Existing Land Use, Principal Streets, Population Densities &
Building lntensities

Existing Land Use Map
A map of existing zoning in the Pro.ject Area is included as Exhibit C and is incorporated herein
(the "Zoning Map"). A map indicating the layout of principal streets serving the area is included
as Exhibit D.




-3-
                                                                             MIDVALE
                                                              @          ln the Middle ol Everrthin{
    The zonine of the land included in the Proj ect Area
    area is now soverned bv the Main Str eet Form Based Code (MS-FBC) as well as the Sinsle Familv
    Residential Zone sF-2 and Clean lndustrial zones. There are two different form districts within

           Main Street - Pa rcels adiacent to Main Street between 7th Aven ue a nd Center Street; and
           Town Center Core - All other oarcels within the Main Street CDA

              Cl Clean lndustriel in the nerth Bertien ef th€ Preie€t n rea
              RC Regienal Cemmereial in the west eentral and seutheast pertiens ef the Prejeet Area
              H€ Histerical GemmerGial in the seuthwest pertien ef the Preje€t n rea
           RM 25 - ResiCential Multifarnily fS in a very srnall area near the sestheast eerner ef the
           Proie€++ree
           RM 'l    ResiCentiel Multifamily 12 in a very small ar€a €n the eaet siCe ef the lroje€t
           Ar€e

    General Description of surrounding property
    The area to the immediate west of the Project Area consists of multi-family residential, an office
I
    business park with some retail, commercial, and light industrial uses. The area to the north of
    the Project Area is a combination of commercial (including several retail businesses) and light
    industrial. lnterstate 15 forms the east bou nda ry of the Project Area. To the south of the Project
    Area is a mix of residential (primarily single-family) and commercialareas.

    Population Density in the Project Area
    The Agency estimates that approximately 400 residents live within the Project Area

    Building Density in the Project Area
    The Project Area is almost entirely developed, although a few vacant parcels exist that may be
    suitable for some sort of development. Some parcels in the Project Area, though developed, are
    likely underutilized and/or blighted and could be candidates for demolition and then new
    redevelopment.

    lmpact of Community Development on Land Use, Population, and Building Density
    To maintain the historic look and feel of Main Street the Midvale cit Co uncil adooted a new N€
               zoni         ,{+€{l+H++5.++#€- ordinance for the historic Main Street Ddistrict Alon
    Main Street and Center Street. Th€-This area is now soverned            thE MS-FBC. ThE MS-FBC
    establishes
       development                                                              within the Project Area
    reeec+@                                        will hit the tarseted dens itv de sired bv the Citv and
    Agencv.




    -1-
                                                                                   MIDVALE
                                                                    @          ln the Midctle ol EverythinE
4.     Standards That Will Guide Community Development

Development in the Project Area will be subject to appropriate elements of the Midvale City
Building Permit process, Midvale City Conditional Use Permits (if applicable), and all applicable
Midvale City Ordinances. Development/expa nsion proposals shall be accompanied by site plans,
development data, and other appropriate material clearly describing the extent of
development/expa nsion proposed, and any other data that is required by Midvale City's Building
and Zoning Department.

The Midvale City Planning Commission shall not issue a conditional use permit unless the
Community Development Department, in the case of an administrative conditional use, or the
Planning Commission, for all other conditional uses, concludes that the application complies with
the standards of review specific to the zone in which the use is proposed.

5.     Description of How Purposes of the Act Will be Attained

Title 17C of the Utah Code contains the following definition of Community Development:
"Community development" means development activities within a community, including the
encouragement, promotion, or provision of development. (U.C.A 5 17C-1-102(16)).

The creation of the Main Street Community Development Project Area furthers the attainment
of the purposes of Title 17C by addressing the following objectives:

Provision of development that enhances economic and quality of life basis.
The Project and Project Area will provide numerous economic and community benefits including
the generation ofjobs, revitalization of an important                      district in the City,
and improvements to the overall neighborhood around Main Street and within the western
portion of the City.

Stimulation of associated business and economic activity by the development.
The Agency expects that this Project will meaningfully enhance Midvale City's property tax base.
Through this Project, the Agency hopes to revitalize the b$rl+re!+arts ard r Lr[qladistrict along
Main Street, increase utilization of property within the Project Area zoned for industrial and
commercial uses, and increase the quality and affordability of housing within the City.

The direct and indirect impact provided by redeveloping this area of Midvale City will be
significant. Midvale City a+s{}-has a higher-than-average poverty rcte of L7.2 percent compared
to the State of Utah's 12.7 percent.

The Project will achieve the following:
1.     Enhance employment and income opportunities for community residents by offering
       employment opportunities within the City;


-5-

                                                             ffi
                                                             €
                                                                           MIDVALE
                                                                       ln thc Middle ol Evertthing
    2.       lncrease the diversity of the tax base and increase the resources available for performing
             governmental services;
    3.       Encourage and support the use of Midvale City's Main Street bs5i+r€55-a rts and culture
             district;
    4.       Support and encourage appropriate public and private development efforts in the
I
             communityijlll,
    5.       Stabilize and improve the residential neighborhood within the project area.

    5.       Conformance of the CDA to the Communitys General Plan

    The Main Street CDA is consistent with the Midvale City General Plan, adopted    in             and
    the Ssmall Aarea                                                 Plan
    adopted in 2018.

    The Midvale City vision is.

             Midvale is a diverse communitv of vibrant. distinct nei ghborhoods located in the center
             of the Salt Lake Valley and connected to maintaifi--e- the region by a network of
             transportation svstems. Our residents, innovative businesses and forward-thinking
             leaders work toeeth er to ensure a hish quality of life        for all
             residents ef Midvale City; greunded r+pen eeenemie vitality; while managing naturel
             reseur€es end preserying s€€ni€ beauty, traditienal valses and stability, The nten€y hepes
             ts en€€srage Cevelep€rs and ether gtakehelders te invest in this Pr€je€t preserving the
             Main 5treet Distri€t, and creating e€enemi€ develepm€nt 6ppertunities while utiliring the
             e*Vt-rene+vatte-reseti*€r

    The Agency hopes to encourage developers and other stakeholders to invest in this
    Project preserving the Main Street District. and create economic development
    opportunities while utilizing the City's renewable resources.




    The following are General City Goals found in the General Plan that relate to the development of
    the Main Street CDA:
        . Create a T€ establish streets and the{oughferes threughout Midvale €ity that sustain a
             posil ive image


             Help existing businesses succeed and expa n d;
             Be known as a o lace where o eo o le matter and n eo o le come first
             Expand housing opportunities and allow for more choices in place and type of residence;
         . @e-iflCifl€Create,                                            Maintain and strensthen stable
             +eside*+.ia{ neighborhoods; a nd,
         .   lncrease the amount of tourism in Midvale

    -6
                                                                                 MIDVALE
                                                                             ln the Middlc ol Everrthin{
    Business and Economic Activity Diversification.
    Midvale City seeks to encourage a balanced mix of economic activity, including but not limited
I
    to:                       commercial; retail; cultural; entertainment; service industry; and
    government services uses which result in a diversified, stable, and environmentally sound local
    economic base. This Project will support those goals.

    Zoning Ordinances,
    The Project Area is currently zoned as a mixtures of MS-FBC - Main Street Form-Based Code CI
    - Clean lndustrial, and SF-2       -
                                      Single Family residentialResidential zones.i-RHeg{€€al

    R€s+d€€+ia++4iJ+# The Agency expects that most or all new development within the
    Project Area will be permitted under existing zoning.

    Building Code. The Project enhancements will be constructed in accordance with all applicable
    Midvale City bu ilding codes.

    7   ,    Specific Project Outline and lts Potential for Job Creation

    The formation of the Project Area will allow the Agency to conduct economic development
    activities within the Project Area-including the offering of various incentives to encourage
    development within the Project Area. The Agency also expects to use tax increment funds to
    make necessary infrastructure improvements within the Project Area that further attract new
    development.
    analyie the potential fer €levelep'nent within the Preie€t Area and take sueh a€tiens as may be




    aevetepmen+- Ihq Agency has identified specific proiects which are also detailed in the Project
    Area Budeet, adopted in 2020. Specific proiects include the followins


    1.      Develop tax increment reimbursement apreements (TlRAsl: The Agency will
            develop and enter into TIRAs with various develooers. The Asencv will oledee the
            reimbursement of certain property tax increment paid and select developers will
            meet speciJic benchmarklte qualifv for the re im blulseoe nt-paylDe !!5-
            will use TIRAS to guide the develop ment of Main Street to achieve the qoals and
            vision for the Area

    2.      Create the Midvale Art House: The Art House is an Citv-€r*n€dAse n cv owned
            center that will rent studio s o ace to artists who will utilize the location to create
        1

                                                                                     MIDVALE
                                                                      @          ln the Middle ol Everrthng,
      displav, and sell their art  It will exist to provide a benefit to the communitv as it
      will enable the communi Vt o interac t. o articipate, and view art. ln addition, the
      space will also provide an ideal location for local artists and orsanizations to host
      €   nt     n    worksho s that will encou ra e education and communi
      collaboration. This engagelleIt with the creative process will promote a
      connection to the arts in the City that will serve to be an attraction point to the
      area and to the art itself bringing with it increased activitv alonA Main Street.

3.    lmplement a revolving loan prosram:The role of the Main Street Area Revolving
      Loan Program is to attract, support, and promote the growth and improvement of
      businesses within the Main Street Area. The Prosram's soal is to stimulate business
           lo men nd ex n n n              nhance th      a' econ mic vitali        makin
      low interest loans available to businesses already operating within Midvale's Main
      Street Area or that are relocatins to or startin s a new business within th e Main
      Street Area. Loans mav be made for a van etv of business- and real estate-related
      exDenses. All loans must meet a minimum cumulative score in the four ke v ou blic
      benefit criteria of Economic Develooment. Public Amenitv, Beautification, and
      Street Activation. Additional incentives are available for also addressing criteria
      including, but not limited to, Adaptive Reuse H istoric Prese rvation. Educational or
      Arts-Based Business, Sustainabilitv, Permanent Job Creation and Retentie!,
      Existing Business in Proiect Area, and Affordable Housing: AMlTareets.

4.    Direct an upper floor housing program: The Main Street Uppef:Elpq Allqd
      Housing lnitiative is intended to p romote and incentivize the development of
      moderate-income housing alons Midvale's historic M ain Street, and in the
      neighborhoods within the Main Street Proiect Area. The goal of the initiative is to
      encourage further residentialsrowth in the Main Street are a. esoeciallv in current
      commercial or retail prooerties alons the Ma in Street that have vacant uooer-floor
      space. The initiative seeks to p rovide an incentive to develop upper floors for
      residential DurDoses on current sinsle-sto rvo ro o erties a s well as orovidine an
      incentive to develop currentlyl4aca nt lots with a goal of increasing the number of
      residential units and density along the Main Street

5.    SuDDortins Darkins solutions: Midvale Cit Main Street CDA a nticioates
      implementing a cons olidated pu blic parkins strategv that will facilitate the srowth
      exoected of the area and the need for additiona loarkine. With increased densitv
      and infill development comes increased oarkins demands. However. due to the
      current size of lots and lack of street oarkin s. manv ootential develooers are at a
      loss when it comes to oroducins a viable solution to meet the oarkins needs of
      their development. The intent of this stratesv is to create oublic/orivate
      oartnerships to imolement a ohased ao o roach to the d evelooment of common
      parking areas that will qrow in corresoondence with the current level of
      develooment. These parkins lots will be positione d in kev locations on the east and
      west of Main St reet and will serve businesses and Main Street area developments
-8-
                                                               ffi
                                                                1'
                                                                              MIDVALE
                                                                          ln the Middle ol Everything
           with access from Holden and Center Street. When needed, public parking can be
           used to divert vehicular traffic awav from Main Street and on to side roads ,leavins
           Main Street free for the eas vfl ow of o edestrian traffic or to be closed for special
           events


    8.      Selection of Participant(s)

    The Agency owns several small parcels within the Project Area. The Agency desires the owners
    of real property in the Main Street Community Development Project Area to partner with various
    developers to develop property. The Agency believes that it will be able to attract developers to
    the Project Area and that such developers will bring ideas and funds for new development within
    the Project Area. The Agency anticipates that property owners within the Project Area will take
    advantage of the opportunity to develop property as outlined in this Plan the Small Area Pla n
                       The Agency expects to offer incentives, as may be appropriate and as allowed
    by Utah law, to encourage development within the Project Area.

    9.      Reasons for Selection of Project Area

    The Project Area was selected by the Agency due to the immediate opportunity to strengthen
    the City's economic base through revitalization of the Main Street area. Additionally, the Project
    Area was selected based on the following factors:


I
    1       A high number of vacant or underutilized parcels within the Project Area.,
    2       The recognition that the Project Area needs assistance to attract the investment of private
I
            capital,
    3       The ability to enable the Project Area to be competitive for retail, commercial, and light
I
            industrial businesses; and
    4       The opportunity to initiate a public/private partnership to improve this area of the City

    10. Description of Physical, Social/Economic Conditions Existing in the Project
    Area

    The Project Area is currently a mixture of several different zones. A significant portion of the
    Project Area is made up of relatively low-value single-family housing, with most homes valued at
    less than S150,000. Many of the homes are not well-maintained and many are rental properties.
    A few of the higher quality homes in the Project Area are likely valued at or near 5200,000. rhe
                                                                            The Main Street corridor
    conta ins -l€+€igyg4lqlg-time businesses as well as a mixture of newer local businesses;
    nonetheless, the area has a significant number of vacant storefronts and properties. Significant
    businesses within the                                           include auto re pair businesses, a
    credit union, and several restaurants. -The Holden Street corridor                             has
    some vacant     parcels, a mobile home     park, afid--+ke-the City's rc€€n+lY-€€n5++u€+€d-main
    municipal building, and eeun+ylhe_.1i9gn'glsenior center.

    -9-
                                                                                   MIDVALE
                                                                    @          ln the Middle ol Everylhng
    More generally, Midvale City has a higher-than-average poverty rate and a median household
    income nearly 20 percent below the Utah median income. CDAs encourage development in areas
I
    that are underutilized, blighted. or under economic stress. and the Project will have a positive
    impact on the physical environment, as well as the socioeconomic characteristics of the
    surrounding area. The Main Street CDA will increase capital investment in the area, encourage
    other development, stabilize housing and offer quality employment for County residents.

    11. Tax lncentives Offered to Private Entities for Development within the
    Project Area

    The Agency intends to use a portion of the tax increment generated by development within the
    Project Area to offer incentives to motivate developers to undertake projects within the Project
    Area. The primary purpose of incentives offered by the Agency to the eventual participants is to
    make the Project Area more attractive as a site for development and to offset the costs of
    infrastructure and other improvements that may need to be made within the Project Area. The
    Agency will negotiate and enter into one or more voluntary interlocal agreements with taxing
    entities, including Midvale City, Salt Lake County, the Canyons School District, and the various
    local districts that levy property tax on the Project Area to secure receipt of a portion of the
    property tax increment generated in the Project Area that would otherwise be paid to the taxing
    e nt it ies.



    The Agency predicts that tax increment will be generated from the Project b{+d€€5-n€+{{+re++ry



                   Area                                                         Deta iled forecasts and
    calculations are ava ila ble in

    The €urrent tetal assessed value ef the preperty within the Project Area B u dget-it€5+imated-+€
    be appr€ximately $13,2 rnillion and will in€rease vyath enhan€ements t€ the Preie€t nrea. The
    base year for tax increment calculations and the schedule of increment payments to the Agency
    will be set in the interlocal agreements negotiated with the various taxing entities,

    The Agency intends to negotiate voluntary agreements with the taxing entities to provide
    property tax increment to be paid to the Agency for community development purposes within
    the Project Area. The sou rce of funds for payments to a participant will be tax increment revenues
    generated through investment in real and personal property in the Project Area.

    All incentives and payments to a Participant will be performa nce-based and will be offered only
    according to the terms of a                                 that adequately protects the Agency
    and the taxing entities by ensuring performance by a participant. Subject to the provisions of the
    Act, the Agency may agree to pay for eligible development costs and other items from such tax


    -t0-
                                                                                 MIDVALE
                                                                  @          ln the Middle ol Evertthing,
revenues for the period of time the Agency and the taxing entities may deem appropriate under
the circumstances.

12, Analysis of Anticipated Public Benefits from the Community Development
The Project will benefit the tax base of the community and will encourage other economic
development in the community.

Beneficial lnfluences upon the Tax Base of the Community

The beneficial influence on the tax base will happen through an increase of the property tax base
of the Project Area. As development occurs within the Project Area, the value of real and personal
property within the Project Area will increase and property tax revenue will correspondingly
increase. lncreased economic activitV within the Proiect Area will also increase the amount of
sales tax revenues Midvale Citv and Salt Lake County cqllect

ln order to calculate the net new taxes generated by development within the CDA, or tax
increment, the existing tax base within the Project Area has to be taken into account. According
to the Salt Lake County Assessor's Office, the current total assessed value of real property within
the Project Area as of 2015 is estimated to be 543.2 million.

Associated Business and Economic Activity Likely to be Stimulated

The development, construction, and operation of the various development projects the Agency
expects to occur will provide jobs in the area and directly and indirectly promote economic
activity, The additionaljobs will bring revenue to the area and will benefit local business including
hotels, restaurants, suppliers and vendors servicing the proposed Project. Additionally, the
successful development will likely spill over into surrounding areas, providing further benefit to
the community and the area.



13. Exhibits

Exhibit A                                                     Project Area Map

Exhibit B                                                     Parcel List

Exhibit C                                                     Zoning Map

Exhibit D                                                     Principal Streets

- ll -
                                                                              MIDVALE
                                                               @          ln the Middle ol Everylhing
    Exhibit A
Proiect Area Map
I

     tr                                                       d i -."'           f\:
                                                                                             l
                                                                                                                                .-q.=
                                                                                                                                  I   I
                                                                                                                                        I

                                                                                                                                            (
                                                                                                                                                    I



                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                     t
                                                                                                                  )

                                                                                                                                                            I   II
         I                 I                                         !
                                                                                                              ?            /    - -r .l
l                 I
                                                                 c                           ,                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                        /
              I
                                    1A                          {                                                                                   I                         I


                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                             ,-l
                  ra
                                             GfT                                                                                                                                            I
                                             \ -


    l*r,
     -l                                 ll
                                              iB.'
                                                                     I       I
                                                                                                                       )
                                                                                                                           a
                                        t

                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                 F.                                                                                              I
                                               !                         t                                                                      I




                                                     H
                                                                                                                                    I

                                                                      r
                                                                                        I
                                        F,
                           rI
                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                  I


        7?                         .l                                                                                                                                         I

        m lrI 'f                              I          a
                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                             I '1f                                                                      I                                     )
                               I                                 a                                                                      I



             |.
                       I
                                             ffi     |          :.


         I
                  I
                                                                                                                                            It
    /                               .{                                                                                                                           E
    ir
                                                                                            ---                       ,.       f,                                -tr---':-':
                                                                                                                                                                         .
                                                                                                                                                                         --           l.i'. f
                                                                     .,,         ..^l             -,\   \l)
         -
                                   -t
Exhibit B
Parcel List
2015t EU.V.lu.   ?[.d                                                                                                                              ,
9401,10O00       ,1r51rtoot      fl2*la11t                        AOGGEIs WAREIOUSE PSOPEiIIIS LI.(                                                        a4oo4
$405p00.00       1125152m'       7t9-1273 S                                                                    17 t Wlll.HasTtRSIt                         44107
tr 732m.00       21I51520O1      ,7n s                            xuHl{, iBtRr t & xarHY Jj IT                 11266 SWOODftttD {O                         4409s
595,0es.m        2ll5152otx      7267 S                           iaal60,{,DANM&lttMjrT                                                                    a4o9].
98@,OOO-00       2l!5152q)5      ,ta1s                            ftvE I PioPEiIas aait o' lGt t,                                                          u@7-
91,07a,1O0.00    21I515r@l                                         OiiOTI PROPTNT MAI{AGIM t XI, TIC                                    DNA'TR UI          a4o)G
                 2lr515I)Ot      ,36t 5                           UIAH TIAXSII AUIiloRItY                      PO 80X 30a10             IATT LAtl CiTY     3411G
9r,929,900.00    21I5190O'                                                                                                              0tNvERco           8022l
9195,t00-00      z12sl51l@l                                       D5 PAfiTIITR5HIP UC                                                   DtNVIRCO           30221
9824,900.00      2115154001                                       sHEtTafiTHt HOMTLISS MtovAtt, ttc            529   w |NTHAVt
                 21!5t?t001                                       UTAH TRAIISII AUlTIOR ITY                    P000x30810               lAtT taxt crfi     a4r!o-
s1a4,500.00      ,1r51S300'      591W                             JOStPH,   GE ATRU0a:     Ti (C,lT)                                                       uM7.
a1aqm.00         2125156001                   06t{IH AVt          FTPI, LTC                                    13702 54170W             itvtirot{ ur       8406t
s2!r,rco.00      2125156002                                       5'H@LCY PROPTRIY MANAGT Mt{T,               2l:lt wro[tsltao wt
t4l zErc.oo      212 5156004                  flGltlH avt         SORIISOI,ltiRY tj Ifi ETAt
lta0q).q,        212 51t600'                  EIGHIHAVT           GntMtttASoN                                                                              a1N7
$l?,i00.00       212 51!@09                   IIGHIH AVT          Mtxtl PtoP[Rnts, t                           PO BOX 9968              IAII IArt CIIY     aaloq
tt 2iarol 0      21r5r56010                   TIGHIN AVE                                                      9115 tA$lon SLVO t                           44107,
3r8q50lt.m       21r 5:rolqr!    7191t                                                                        ro Box 4576               MTDVAU Ut
3104, t@.00      2115!01002                   EhSHTH   AVt        olctccso ,amTT                               PO BOt 95462             SO UI H JOiDAI{    84091
3ta.l25.m                        7at3 s                           ABiTGO, MARTITI                              ,al3 s MAt sT                               a4$r.
309.7lo.m                                     StvoiTHAvt          S(IDTOCX, RYAN       I                                                MIDVAIE UT         aM7
ttit,t!6.0       212t10101'                   SEVEIiTHAV'         HA              iOGl R w & rlo8 t; lI       628 W SEVINTHAVE          MIOVALE UT         a.047
                                                                       '!PTON,,
3a!,8@.A         212 5a01014                                      cotwtLt, Mt[s9a                             618 W SEVENTH AVt
173.26.@         21U r!01015     610 W        stvtxtHAvt          MARTIIIE2, An|ONTS N, & MARY G,             610 W SwE TH AVE
E.XE.IIPT        21t5r01016                                                                                    PO SOX 1't4575           5AII (A(t CIrY     44112L
342,920.m        )121101017      tqt t                            BnaY, aRLAI & GAanltLt Z;            lI                               MIDVAU UI          aAM7-
t500_o           ,11510101E      7(D S                                                                                                                     44047
371.830.@        2lI5lO10r9      ?'t{t!t s    MAIT ST             TITTEi, IIICOTT & EIHA            7lll9 s MA[{ ST                     IratovAu uT        a40t7
405.1/().@       21251010t0      7427I                            (tA8( flcruRD 0 & MrctlAtLBi
                                                                                          'T   lT   ,427 5 MA[{ ST                                         4Ut
t69.96.q)        212t,o1022                                       HAYCOCTI GTRADA & lYwtA M t tT At ata t Hlatsautavt
156.475.m        2lt5t01021                                       6tRBtt, tusT M                                                                           841r1
                                                                                'r
11.c.a.8q) 0o    2lltl010l8                   EIGHIH AVE          soit SOtl,ltnRY E; Ti tTAl,
soa,675.@                                                         ALLEN, DAI{ITT PAU L WAYNE                  652 W SEVtfiTH AVt                           u04l
t78.375.q]       21t5101010                   STVTTTHAVT          SMltN, tnlc I & MlaHEttt M: lT                                                           8404l
EXEIiPT          2125102001                   EIGHIH AVE                                                       PO BOX 12!1575                              eat,4.
t68,915.@        2125102005                                       GRttN,L6AG                                                                               aMt
t53.7@.@         2125102006                                       WA G HI, oAVID T & sUSAfl Gr ,T                                                          a4u7
ttr.t0.t!        2125102010      575 W        TrcHTH AVE          85 MTo.tAU LrC                               ,!!x s F,t[rsTo t Lx     corTot{woo0        a4$t
sea,00.@         2115:t0)01)     TaGt s       ROGiAt{o4 sT                                                     7403 5 RloGnA Ot 5T
1290, rm.oo      2125,02011      7117   t     RP GRAITOT                               & DISTRI UIII{6
                                                                  C HT X & tAC X RIPAIRS                       7417 S RtOGMt{Ot 5T      MIOVALT UT         a40t7
s78.55.O         2t2510t001      7L7 t                       'T   ( Uills, C THTRRAL& tnMA l; T(
3€r.5$.lx)       lt r5to3m2      Tatl s                           TTU'IIIO.BT TAM I&MATYAil :'T                t4 570 5 ltrroo w        Erufaoatt ur       44061
368.65.m         21l53olo0l      7461S                            7t6t rwnL uc                                 rca5t 5rr{Dr@ 5ft wY 50ulH roioal{          a4o9!
t79.0&.@         212 5:tOIrOt    ael s                            60 ZrE PATRK tO A & Vt rOiitCA 8;                                                        uu7-
t58.410.0        2125J0t005                                       Un9O , (AnOLY C;IR lctlJ                  'T 1556 t 8685 S            SANDYUT            84091
t63,525.(p       2125301006                   SEVtIiITH AVT       ZAVATA R[GllO Z; €] AL                                                                   84047
110r,700.00      21rtl0:r007                                      HOLFTL?, C TARK D                                                                        44107
172-875.q)       212530t008                   SEVTNTHAVE          fIOiES,SNt DAY& MAGATLAI{ ES,                                         MIDVAIgUT          84047
170,4@.ql        212 5101009                  sEvfl{THAVt
$4,1S q,         2125101010                                       MC(OY, MtaHAE,    & asTHER SITCI                                      MIOVATI UT         uu7
t61.325.m        2125:t0l01t                                                      '
                                                                  HAUII, ROSI E HUIIISMA,   CARYO, JT
$60.!T.m         , tr 5:tol012                                     IIEiO, ELEYOA
t6!.056.O        211530101'                                       AtItto,lost                                                                              84047
l75,4Ar.q'       2125401014                   SIXIH AVE           GOnZAltS, GEttE P E MOiTOYA A XA                                                         8l|0.,
EXEMPT           21253010t I                                      SATI IAKI COUNIY                             PO 60X 144515            sALT TAXI CITY     811L+
t?2,6@.@         2125301016                   5txTH AVt
173,t75.m        212530t017                                       H ntx LARIOX & cORIEEtIi        II           ]571W(RABAPPLICIR
EXEMPT           2125301018                   9rxrH Avt           sALT IAXI COUNTY                             PO BOX !t4575            sAtT   t rc c,IY   8,114-
s88,715.rD       21r5101019      650 W                            BIOOM, ROLANO I & RAYtENtAj TRS             691E(OUNTRYARETZE         ORAPER UI          8402G
s10r,640.00      1125:t0t0r0                                      TA(ACI,GEORGT A'N                                                                        8Al}41
3t7,a50.tD       2125301021                                       OL'ON,            & MARILY ; IT              ]160 TULAROSA LN                            89122
381,5S.m         21231010rI      ,at s        AloGnAI{OE ST               'OYCE
                                                                  M ICIT 6EN, AORIENI{E                        74515 RIOGiANDt ST
160,225.(D       2125301021      7464 S       RIOGRAIIOEST        w Trs, oavtD w & So8tnraa (lT)               ]710 W ALAAAMA AVt                          84084
36r,930.(D       2t25ror0l4      71715        ilo6NATOI ST        t116,MAxt                                    ,,r71r   9io GnANDT sT
t1t4,s5.00       ,125tOi025      60G612 W                                                                     la11StMEn MTADOW          TAYLOEVILIT UT 8471t
i5a.5lp.@        212 5toa@1      7419t                                                                         7159 S IDGRANDT
                                                                                                                                   'T


                                                                              I
t63.1t5.@     2115104002       11:95    ROGRANDE 5T    wEsI, $nNtrHl                               T4S9SiIOGRANDI         MIDVAL' UT      &0!1
572.26.q)     2125:loa00l      7469 5   RPGfiANDT SI   ROS[, DAV|D r                               ,469 5 O OiAitDt '1
                                                                                                                    tT    MloVALt UT      uul-
s63 am d)     2125104006       1191t                   ttONAlDl,IrM L; lT Al                       ,.9' SiOGMIiIDE ST MIOVALT UT          a.047-
i52A!5.6      21251Ot007       7a&t s                                                                      DR MUiIAY UT
                                                                                                   5710 5 UTAHNA              84707
306.4t5.@     212 5106001      7511S                   ODLT,                                7'1! 5 MAIT 5T        MIOVALT UT  a4u7
549,2rt5.d)   2lt !106002                                     'ENTMY
                                                       xoctAt{a'    Tt D !                  1918 W Mt V6TA OR TAYLOiSV|LU UT 841I+
s77,66.r8     212 530600tt              stxTHAva       ROIIOUILLO,FRTD           E          67t W StXrH AVt       MtOVAtt ur  e4u7
187,870_e     21153060(X                STTH AV'       IYWAEI, GAiY P& (rAril lA            669 W SmHAVt          $rDVArt Ur  *u7-
t55.285.rD    2115106006                               itRra. DAvtD I                       663 W SIXIH AVE       MIDVATT UT  8404'
t50,0&.1!     llls1060()7               stxTH avt      l{lR!(H, allalt                      547 w 3txtHAvt        Mtovatt uT  s404r-
565.725.(D    21253IXOO8                               ttMtttt, MATIHTW n & XOfilj IiS{L[I) ,14, t ( sILt HTLLAVt COITOiWOOD 44121
t0r,@.m       212 53U6009                              FiEr, Et ra w t AWIUA a              ,4,0 t lv,5           Piovo uT    gffi
s6r,270.@     212 5306010                              MOli6, iOY t e MAilLYtl O; IR        !al5 w 81505          WE5TDnDA UT a40a&
t55,825.4     212 5v16011               SD(TH AVt      MCCIUS&Y, IIMOIHY W & CAf,OACt A 5T'W SDOHAVI              MIDVAI.t UT 8/roar-
t6rr,2s.lD    212 5306011                              MCHtIIiY, MILO R                     6ir9 w      ava       Mtoratt uT  4401t-
3100.265.00   i12 53!6014      751aS    ftoGMNOI tt    DA' SU IT Iil & MICHTLLT I';                      'xIB iot sr Mtovar-t ur
                                                                                                   ,ttEIiro6a                             uMr-
366,a5.@      112 5306015      7521t                   Ptitz, roict o               'C             ,5275MAIN 5T           MIVALI UT       u@l
$s,i 75.q)    2!2 t36or6       79t5     MAIr !T        ourl,t [tA                                  ,535SMAI 5T            M|OV UUI        uut
185,09.(D     212 5306017                              sAt(HfZ, tllRrQUt 6 & MARAI;lI              618r l.ooow            TAYtoisvtll,t uT 44129
358,820.q)    2125:ttE0la                              M^t',ttraz, atatta tlla ! Itoitag;    r     576 W  EFIt{Avt        MTDVAU Ur       84047
$57.060.(I)   212 5106019                              M^ttlitvE t tMtnPRBts. tt(                  {a uwltw oR            auttt uT        44004
t54,56.m      2   t25:IbO21                            DUGGAf,.     AI{DiTW & PAIITIA II           654 W llFrk AVt        MrDVAtt Ur      81t,'t
t60.555.q)    212 5ao6o22                              S tLUltGS.   ttRfl LYt{                     6'0 W        AVt       MIOVAU UT       44017
t5/r.26 @     I125:Iblr2!                              lUCTio, G@iUT UYTT;  I                             'IFIH AVE
                                                                                                   6'4 W II'IH            MIDVALI UT      t 40.7
t71,0(5.d,    2 t2 5JrbO2{                             Holril5ot SATH, SiYAl{ P        'I          6]8 W TIFIH AVE        MIOVAL' UT      a40.7
$e5{D.(p      212 5:tO6{'2 5   632 W                   oiticf, DHll L                              6:12 W fIFIH AVt       M|o\,AU U'
37A,46.(D     212 5:x)60t7                                                                         6I' W                  MIDVAU UT       a4047
s517$.O       112 glIb0rA                              SOtlZAIOtltArc EtH t; T(                           'IFI}IAVT
                                                                                                   510 W ftFlt{AVt        MrDl/AU UT      ,l,01t
EXEMPI        ,12 5:tO60tO                             SALT LAXT (OUIITY                           P(, AOX !t/4575        SALI LArc Cm    44114
s77,550.q'    2lt 5:to60:t l                           oAv6, luz^t{tt F                            6T' W TFIH AVt         i'DVAL' UT      $u7
579e15.q)     2125460!4                                MOWtil,SitnD r                              660 W FIFIH AV€        MIDVATI UT      8404,
$€r.t5.q,     212 5:t060,5                                                                         66WllfT AVt            MtDVAtt UT      44047
!15,2i0.tD                                             GiATITTI IAII. BOND5                        DO   mr toa            AMtircan ronx a40ol
EXEIIPT       l115,o7mr                                                                            6!t w (fllrtt sI       MtD\rau ur      440t7-
EXEMPT        212 5:to7m2      ,555S                                                               @5   W(tnlti 5I        MDvau ul
i&r,735.q)    2125]o7ml                                wt^vtR Mtcr't€tlt I                         6ait w flfTHAvt   tflorAlf uT
s73.al0 m     2125t07004                               JMtTt, OAt{ttttt t                          67' W Ffm   AVt   MtOVAtt UT    4401,
t64,8qr.@     2125:tO7005                              ! mo!,otceE 0                               657 W flf1x AVt   MTDVALt UT    gul
t94,920.00    2t)530roo7                               Ait{otD, t^l|t x                            6tr w FFn{ avt    MtDvA[ uT     8.047
Ito.2&.@      2125107008                               uFoffTr, EMruAttA                           643 W rlFrH AVt   i OVAE Ur     uul
ssa,Zto.tD    212 5307009                              CtraMBEis,iutHAe              El4(/0c Rot   6'9 W fIFIH AVI   MIOVATI UT
ta9,8t .(D    212 5:tO7010                             Lu(tto. t Yltt                              ,EO t (HAllTto Di    TOVAU UT   84047-
153.ao.(D     It2 5:tO7011                                                                         613 W frFtH AV€   MrDVArt UT    44047
15r,920.@     212 5:'07012                             ROMtnO, iO<tY                               62' W FtrTH AVt   MIDVALI UT    ,,4047
$63.415 @     2125307011                               tltuosEt{, ( otEY I                         6rlWFlFIHAVt M|OV tt Ur         44047
$r 58.I0.00   2125307014       7561S                   R5S LrL XtU(                                575W 21$ Sr 3     WtITV UtYUJ a4uG
t65.0€5.(D    212 5lo70t5                              CA5TtLAi, JAMTS & llMBtitYj rT              &a6 5ARY(I Dn     !A DY rir     44070
3A4,515.tD    2t75],7016                               Ho(|stlntDt8, SOYO E P TTYA TT              672 W fOUirH AVt  MTDVAU Ur     a1u7
359.3/r5.iD   21,t 5307017     667 W                   RTSIOII UIAH tL(    '                       t6@ I STATT Sr    SAIIt l(t(lrY 44111
t76.OO5.m     t125307018                                                                           656W                   MIDVAU UI
$63.3G m      2115107019                                                                                   'OUIIHAVT
                                                       SMITH, OAVID C & PARKri, PAMItA KrlT 1177 WSOPH|Aan MU[nAl Ur                      441)l-
t76.670.@     tt25lo70l0                               Mforc, MAi6HA M                      6') W          ;OURIHAVt
                                                                                                           MIOVATT UT
s54,175.m     211s1o7021                               MACAiIHUR, DAVIO 0& (lnY A; TC              l!73 { SKYUM DR        SoUXTrtUr lrT   84010
l6i,5,a5lD    ,12 Storo2l                              vllauaN00, ,t5us                            628WfOUtIHAVt MrOVAt t UT              4404f
s66,7m.m                                               GO|{ZAL[S, OSCAn                            620 W FOUNTHAVT MIDVAI         UT      44047
t70.56 (D     2tI53{1702{                              J€t{s8r, rar,t D                            PO80X     5t6a!a              ' CnY
                                                                                                                          SAtr LArr       44137-
556,265.m                                              iooRrGUtz, LoeEirzo                         @6W FOUnTHAVt MrOVAt t rll             84047
1216,8e.@     2125307027                               iEttE, rlMMYTi Ti (l&!8 TR)                 1t6E9 t   gio DvtEw wY s t{oY uT       84092-
t70.B,t{,.@   zttt!o702e                               Mt DO'A, JORG' & WILTIAMS,                  !o' W FOUNTHAVT MIDVATT UT
s83.215.@     2r253070I9                               HOIM, EUZAAETH                              61 W T|FTHAVI MIOVATT UI               a4047
t82,2&.m      2125307010                               vAfr ouilt, wtsttYA                         655 W   FIFTHAVE MIDVATT UI            a4uf
5269.@0.00    2t2l308ml        757l S                  Itctclra0, SPtxcrn & rR (sR8i1)             U958 S  5AOOW HTRRIMANUT               84096
1552$0.00     2125108002       75al5                   IU A PNOPERTITS LTC                         281A T FAICOII WY SANDYUT              84t)91
t72.0@.m      212 S303001      ,5a9 5                  ,603 MA { LtC                               760! lodh MrlnSi. MllrVAIt UI          a4u7
t65.6@ @      2125104fi)4      75915                                                               ,t89!MA[{ Sr      MtDVAtt I    U          /
                                                                                                                                          a4Da
s8r.2$.m      2125t04005                               cot{zALEz, tAlMt M                          68! W TOUAIHAVt MroVAtt Ur             uMl
567.595 @     212s108006                               GRTII{SPON, PAMTTAA                         675W FOURT}IAVt MIDVALT UT
s55.770.@     212530a007                               OiltZ,TENCSA                                665W IOURTHAVT MIOVALT UT
                                                                                                                                          't017
t6zta].m      212 5rc4008                              oiTlz,ftLrra                                                             MtovaLt  uT      a4047
357.5S.q)     212 t1f,009                              SICOX, UllOA & VAt GHtl t; iT                                            MIIryAl'tUI      EII"7
t7a.4i5.(E    2t)510A01o                               FtRn6, OAVTO                                                             Mrovalr ul       4404,
157.1.5.@     ,t25rn 11                                                                                                         MIIryAtt UI      AM'
t6r.325.@     212530€0l2                               (AiRrLuo,GrlAt ro & ,osaft A; ,T                                         Mtovatt uT       gul
t6r.82o @     212 SlOtX'1'                             l(tlLai, Mf,iauf, B                                                      Mtovatt uI       $ul
16/r.625.m    212 5t0601{                              nOMt@. ltl{NtTHA& sHf nRY;I3S                 5449 5 COVE C Rt tX tr,l   MURRAY U'        84'IO7
t67.2t0.m     21, t:tosol6                             YOCUM,                                                                   Mro/ar.t ur      8404,
ltatm m       2l2S:t0@17      682 W                             'OI{A                                                           MrovALt uT       a4oa7.
t01am.@       2125!0@18                                tttDM & itEUGE,              luAxra (rr)                                 MrovAu ur
169.1S.ql     2r2t]l)ao19                                                     'ra                                               MrovaLt ur       '^0,7-
                                                                                                                                                 aaoaT-
t73.755.q)    212530@20       66iI W     THIiDAVt      loRlt&a8lAi                                                              MIryAU Ur        Aa0a7-
$e 850 m      212 t$d)11                                                                                                        MtovALE Ur       tvtu7.
562-7@_q)     212tllodDt2                              {otfttrz,cl-ARrD                              37it t MtAoow ao           MURRAYUT ?I!07
$78.375 @     2l25loq)2l                               Oi IWORIH, DO IALD I & VING|N|A     A;                                   wtsr toRDA Ul aaoa+
571 555 @     2115:toaol4     6:t2 W     IHIiDAVt      IENAVOTZ, DHNME T. & IVANGEUIII          'I                              Mrov^r.tur
t65.836.@     2r25m80t 5                               aaio, /oH R                                                              MtovALt IJT gul.
                                                                                                                                            ',/l0I7-
iss.1$.tE     2It5308027      596 W      THIiDAVt      llAGaL iY^tl & WAID, SHEILA lj     lI         506 W THiD AVt             Mtov tt ur  aa0a7.
171.!S m      ?rr5306013      6!G6la W                 TOOit E, TTMOTHY r    t aYmHh W; II                                      tROA UI     AO7'
552.5€0 m     2lr5roaor9      601{oa w   THNOAVT       9G,C PiOP5, LL(                               ,t65 STYI{EO tE CT         coIlot{wooo 84093.
579.750 m     211540er30      613 W                                                                                             MtDratE ur 84047
tr03n6.00     21t5:loaotl                                                                                                       Mrxt attuT 84047
t250,&o.00    21251510O1      760! 5                   7603 MAltrt Ltc                               75A9 5 MA t 5l             MrovAtt uT  *t047-
tai,56.@      2tt!351004      76r! !                   HENDRl(lGEUTODD        & WENI'Y;              lor00 51200w               sourH roiDA t409t
t51.150.@     2rr515t005      649 W      THIiDAV'                                         'T                                    M|DVALI UT  840i17-
gaz200.0i)    2!l535tOO6      ,63! t                   (HANttSGROUP,TLC                              7633 5 MAtn 9r             MrovAtt ur  4u1-
562,536.@     2t15,510t 7                THINOAVE      IATOYA, CARIOS D.     li; ET At                                          MrovALt uT  u047-
st a,846.m    212s:r5tOO8                THIAOAVI                                                                               MrovAIt ur  gul
367,585.m     21t5151009                               BR[{TO|{,lOH n                                                           MtDVAtt UT  a4U7-
stl.l,lE.&    21I5151010                 IHIIOAVE      tRNTOt't,toHN n                               653 W THlnDAVt             MtovatE uT  44047.
173 535.@     2125151011                 THIiOAVE                                                                               MIDVALE UT  840{7.
t81.1€.@      21253510L       615W       THrioava      lTLtEttacs,lttx D                                                        MtovAtt uT  u017.
572,435.@     21251510!5      t99 W                    t66mr5tlt,8iaDt.Yr                                                       MrovALt uT  uwl
180.06.m      2125151016                 st(ol{oAvE    OITIGA, LUPT A OAITG,{ ITVA;       fi                                    MIOVALT UT  E4047-
165.560.@     r115t51017                 st(ot{oAVE                                                                             MIDVALT I   UO47
                                                                                                                                            IJ

t77,056.m     21r5351018      6561/      st(ot{olvE    woo,6tLatRT                                   4372 9AOUC((lR             wtsl vatl.tYur 8rll'I0
t68.420.@     ,125t51019                 sEcot{oava                                                  64€ W SECONDAVE            MIOVALI     UT   44047.
t81.950.@     212tr51010                 5t(o oavE                                                                              MtovaLt     uI   E40a7-
545.650 @     2lltl5totl                 stcot{oavE    Gotrtzatts, (ttrH a                                                      wttT IoRDAN uT 44084.
t66.!!r].@    2115151012                 st(ot{oava    t^iaMlrq M^nca 0                              PO AOX 104                 MIOVALT UT
569,520.m     21r5151011                 st(ot{oAva    ,AGE, ST'VE iE 5HAUi{IEU                                                 MUniaY  uT       't047
                                                                                                                                                 a4107-
s54.50.q)     2125tt1024                                                         'T M
                                                       INUf,LO, I'AII W UTA E ADOTPH            II   615 WStCOtDAVt             MIITALI UI  $0t7.
t5a.75.m      2125351025                 StCOl,iOAvt   nYxo tnTtRPi6ts uc                                                       wr5rva[tYUT a41rG
t78.5ao @     2125t51026      t9e w      Stcollo avt   GuIltiitz, soilA I                            POa(rx 115                 Mf DVAll UT gUL
t75.855.@     21251510t7                 IIIIADAVT     trBrtiMAt{, c HAntE9                                                     MIOVALT  UT g$l
s22e(rc.00    2125151026      7@7 5                    AiSOW DtVtLOPMEl{I,          LLC                                         satT ta(t (IIY ?t10].
5540,t00 0o   212 5351002     ,651S                                                                  620 t{ 1150t               rtHtur         84041-
tl7&7(m.00    2125351ot)l     ,659 S                   7569t00t I{GSUC                               ,6t9 SMAfi SI              MTDVAU Ur      a4oar-
t55,770.m     212 5352006                stcoN0avE                                                   T610SMtcHtrttWY            aoTToNwD HG]S 44091.
352,965.O     !12 535100'                SECOnD AVt    GOtazAtE ItnH &       [l{tt rT                                           wt5r tonDAn uI 84o6it,
s59.675 m     2 r2 5:!51008              stcoN0avt     CARU G. SAIlY A VO5S, PAMTTA D;                                          MrDVAtt    UT  UU7.
t60,i 15.tD   112 5352009                StaorD avt                                             'T   661 W 5ECOID AVa           MrovAtt    uT uu,
15..7& @      1125151010                               vatDtl naYMot{o c & MoRtno,                                              MtovAtt    uT 8,0{7
11i1s0.00     ttl535t0t1      611552W                  STNA/ATT,IOA DE         IIlIl'
                                                                         PAT TA A; 4484 W sXYt Dn                               50utH    lonoa 64t 9t
162,150.@     21I5!5201!                               ftux, RraRoo                                                             MtovAtt    ur ,yl017-
!r5.375.@     ru5l5r0r,       535 W      sacot{D Avt   aAUY, STEPE G&SUZA t:rl     3105 S2a50t                                  aatr Laxt  clrY 841txt
i7?8m @       ,t15152014                 STCONDAVT                                                                              SAtr LaKr crTY 44109
t85.6&.@      21rSt5201!                               00RcEGurra, GurrltiMo c                                                  Mrovat Eur     a4oar.
              21r5r52016                                                                                                        MrovAtt uT la04r-
i6l.5rt5.m    2125:t52019                              turllvtSTMEtTSt(                              !t219 9W@DnDGt             oRAPtRUt 8402G
t73,5S.ql     2125t52010                               RO6EIS, (IIA5E E A NAI,'T                                                MrovALf ul 4u|
t1.000 00     21lt3r0I1                                                                                                         MrovaLt uT 44u7.
t83,656.m     2r25r52022                                                                                                        MIOVALI UI IAU'.
t42q500.00    2125t52021      7665 5                   fallot I{D PmPtRTtEs lrc                                                 PAY5oX t t 44604
EXEMPT        212515I024                               NEDWELOPM      tI{T ACTN'Y Of MIDVALI         655 WCtmEi      5l         MIOVALE UT AAUT
565,175.(D    ,12tt5r02t                               ouRAx,st,s IM&toHNG;rr                                                   MIDVAI      UT
t54tr57500    212535t001      7677   t                 6CI tilvEsTMENTS tC                           242 S 200 t                        ' (lTY
                                                                                                                                (Arr ratF        'Al].'
                                                                                                                                                 44111
lt8,!o.tD     2125351002      7675t                    SILVIIIOS M EXICAI{ RI5TAU RAIIT IITC         6182 S 4000 W              TAYIOSSVIILI UT 84129




                                                                 l
tr58,i00.00     2125t53001        76n S                                                                        PO BOX 901461            SAiIOY UT         84090
328qa)O.OO      2t2 5t51004       7619 S                             SOBERG,                                                                              a4u7-
t2!q?!0 00      21t5451005        7681S                              TAYLO& t'Ot
                                                                              GLt r&tAVO               lll     PO BOX 156
srt6'sm.@       2125451006        ,@f t                              larH& rr tSS rx(                          PO mX 1290               DiAPtI UI         4402l}
E.)GiIPT        21251510117       169' S                             MIDI/AU ('IY                              655W(HfrtRSr             MIOVAU UI         44047
EXEIIPT         211515:rctr       ?6915                              MIDI'AII CfY                              655 W CtrarER      t     MIDVAU t'I
32aZ5O0.m       2t2515:t010       7,11 S                             MMSIHTATRT LTC                            ,636 tBftGATBwO                            '4o4-r-
                                                                                                                                                          8,U21
EXET'PT         2lr5l5t0tt                                           M tD\rau   (rY aotPoiaTot{                655 W Cfl{rm Sr                            uul-
EXEIIPT         212515:t01)                                          MIDIJAII CITY COAPORAIioI{ CO             69tWatf,rtRsI            MtorAtt ur        a4u7
EXEiIPT         21253'l0tl        661W                               MIO'Atl ('TY COTPOiAT|oII                 655 W Ct irTm Sr                           uu7
t68.7$.@        ,125t510L
t78.t50.m       2r25t5r0r5                                           C HNEIEIIISE   I{, XIRX L                                          MIOVALT UT
t7!,c45.m       tl)535101G                                           BNADTORO,IiAROLD D                        5656 5 SLAKE DR          TAYTORsVIILT UT   4412+
t73.535_m       1125:t5t017                                          ROGTiSOI{, wlLTAM G                                                MIDVAIT UI        a4a7-
EXEUPI          21251']019                                           Mrovarr (rTY comonal|on
EXEUPT          21rt15,0I0                                           LtDl/ tl crY coRPoMTto                    655 W C {ttR Sr          MIDVAII UI        uu,
t75,1S.@        21r5l5l0tl        769i19        at ttx 5r                                                      ,692 5 AtLfl{ sI
i201200.00      21253530tJ                      crxltnST             ruioEEac, Entr.l Da nft rr c (rr)         l!ta3 t Bn^NDOT{ PAIX    gI{DY UI          44092.
t55.7qr.ln      21r91510t6                      CtNTTR5I             TUiDBIRG,BREI{I D & NTTA'fl C; ,I         19]3 T BnANOON PAN(
3tat,&o.oo      21r515301'        6r0-676ta'l   aflilti sr           !AlcHt2, ra                                                                          ']lltvn.
                                                                                                                                                          u6f
$a.3m.@         )rr5l5lo24                      ctNTttsT             LUlrDOtRC,Bmfi O& TIFFA'IY (j ET AL 576WCfnrtR5r                                     a4o{1
EXEXPT          2125t5t019                                           MD\rrllf aiTY aot9ofiaTloll         750t s. tlold.n sl-                              uu7
toa.60.m        2115t51030        65+662 W      .E TENST             loRoai FtDtRAt(mDIr u ot            9260 5300€                     S toY ur          84070
t297,$0.00      2125351011        65&662 W      ctl{Ttisr            JOROAN TEDE nAL (        iI DIT UI{IOI{   9260 5 r00     t         tAfiDY UT         84ot0
5161,@0.00      21251510u         652-656W      CENTIR5T             ENiIqUtZ, ROBTRTO                         8440 S2700W              wEs-r toSoall uT 840a&
471.u!t5.@      212t35,013                      cttlttitr            TTMPO PROPTNTII!, LLC                     11281'5l /YIGATE L       SAiroY ur         84092-
182,0@.m        2lu 515,014                     CETTTIRST            BTOOLIA, ROSERIO                                                                     a4u7-
,i5a,ldr.oo     lr25tt30t5                      ctr{Ttt5T            StDOtla, MAala It e iOOtlTO; r            634 W CttlrtR St
sr5i5oo.oo      2115,53016                      atNTtisT                                                       rt0a9 s 25q) w           tuvtnlo uT        8406t
321 7,i(r0.OO   2115:t5t0l,       7719 S                                                                       ,19 S MA[{ !T                              ,Io11-
19./t00.00      2125151018                      .ENITR5T             LUTDAIiG, ANEltI D & TI['A Y(;'t          ,l,!3 t AiAM)Otrt PARK                     44092
EXEiIPT         2l25l5t0t0        7697 S
t38.3l! q)      212535!04!                      ct Itnsl             TNNQUEZ,ROB'RTO                                                                      a40a&
t€10@ @         2125451041                      cErrrR sT            zouDrlol/, Ev6uE r                                                 IALT tArc CIIY    44101
$e4m.lD         2125356001        ,6/t3 S       attflt sr            4069 Ltc 9Etuts     I                     &69 S ADAMS ST                             84047
l7a,t,o.tD      2115356001                      stcoNDAvt                                                                                                 aA047
t75,9(D.@       212 5156004                                          TnoM PSOI{, ASsrtY & ZOtBEK,lt6TtN;
s63.745.m       21?5356005                                           cAiffrt, cHAiDiAnat o                                                                c4u7-
EIEMPI          212 5356006                                          SALT IAXI COUIIT'                         PO BOX 1,t4575           SATI LAxl ClrY    84lt+
t7t,6.(!        112 5355007       596 W                              FIIIXEGATi, MTHAIt                                                 MIDVATI UT        a4M7
3l0a150.00      2 12   slt600t                  SECONDAVE                                                                                                 4U'
gll.0&.rD       1115357001        ,6r, s        aurt{ sI             HAXSE|, tt Xta;         IR(fHi,           1A) t GRa T WOOD AVt                       auL
360.9a0.@       2115t57 )2        76An 5        ATTEN 5T             O(IloA, aO nE & stRAalIA g;ll             764] 5 ALLEI{ 5I                           aA04t
t6z0ao.rD       21I5t57d)]                                           GOrZAttt EUrHtA & VAitLA,                 P(' 80X 377
s!24s0.00       21t515700'l                     CENIERSI             A lnc }IAM C RITT l'c                     9192 t 3r'0 Wr ra        satitoY ur
311t,@0.00      21153570Ot                      CtNItRST             O   fiGTAM C rcIK L(                      9192 S 3@ Wr 2a                            44070
t92.1@.@        2tltl57006                      CENTTR 5T            BII{GHAM(iEE(LC                           9192 St00Wa 28
EXEIIPT         2t25t6dD1         7674 S        AILE                 am cEiTEnao ooMll{luM coMMoll             flra4s900E1202           SAI.T LArc CITY   84111-
l3!,s36-m       21t536d)02        7674 S        AI.LEI{ 'T
                                                        ST           KETCH, GRTGORY C & lAff[ Aj ,T            655 r 100                ATPIIIE UT
ls!,9!6 @       2ll$a]l)ol        ,674 5                             rcTCX, GruGORY C & iAnE &II               651t 100 t{
i!3.935 m       212 5r6m04        7674 5                             KaTaH, GntGOnY(   & XARt I Aj rI          655 t 100 N              atPfit uI         4400,r
$!,t!5 @        212 5]60005       767a 5                             (tTC }t, GnE@RY ( a IARE l,l Aj ,T        655 t 100 N              AI.PII{T   UI     a{004
t33.835.@       212!6@06          ,678 9                             XITCH,6Rt@nY( & xAmI A;ll                 655t1mN
$!,t$.q)        212 516000'       7674 S        AtLE{ Sr r6A         XITC tl, GRE@f,Y C & xAAt i A; lT         6J5 r lq)
lsL$5.a         212 5!60008       76?a 9        alrfl{ sr r 18       ItIC B, GRTGORY   & XAR! N A; ll          655 E   lfi)
l!!.95.q)       2      51611009   76rA S        ATTEII       T 28    XETCH, GRI@iY A ' E XARIN A: lT           655 t 10() r{            AI?IIT UT
l!!.t$ @          ',2
                ,l15360010        ,6rat         Ar   rtfi 'sI r ]B   rcT(H,GREGOnYa& laR€ A; lT                655 a 100,{
t!!,836.@       212 5:t60olt      7678 S        al(En     t a48      XTTCH,6iE6ORYC & TAru A;                  655 t t0()l{             AI.PNE UT
1t3,935.tD      21r 5360012       751r, S       atLtI{ st * 58       IGT'H, G REGORY C & XAR' III A; 'T
                                                                                                     ]T        655 t 100 il
133,936.rD                        7678 5        autx t {64           XEICH, Gia6OiYC & (Aia A:lI               695 t r00 N              AL'INt UT         84004
IXEMPl          2126128001        Ttg(r s                                                                      655W(tt{rtRSr
EXEMPI          2126201004        72S S                              MIDVAU C|IY                               555WCtllrtRST                              a4047
9700 00         21r5201007        729a S                             TISMDTH 9ALT I-Arc C|TY, INC              7158 5tt 5MrOrH Dn
TXEMPT          11t6251001        779 S                                                                        655W(amtRSt                                44047
                2126251001        12$ s                                                                        6S5WCEmtRn                                 44041
                21l615tOO'l       ,ts s                                                                        655 W CtXTIRST
EXEIIIPT        2116127001        75109                                                                        6s, w (tmtfi sr
EXEiIPT         2t264at(x)a       7505 S        HO(OE SI             MtDVAtt CftY
t282894.00     21t647700{                    DTPOTST       A5I-I INVESIMTt{Is, LIC               PO BOX 526251                SALT LArc CIIY      44152
EXEUPI         2126417005      7512 S                      MDryALT CIIY CORPOTATIOI{             555WCrr{TEn tr                                   uu7
t51,5$.tD      2126427006                    D'POT5T       A5t.1 tNVtSrM 0{TS, LIc               PO BOX 5162 51               SAI,T LArc ClrV     44152
3r0qo0.m       2126.ar001                                  GOI{Z l.Ez, MAR'rZA 50                7)a w otPor st
5l @.(lro 00   ? l261D ro{ra   tgs                         f,EH nDsO , TtniY L tr AL             to Box 95155                 50uIH roiDAri       4409t
9I19,610.00    l12647101o      ,6!-ra1w      OTPOT ST      ioct MounTA ,u(                       tll.2 t lA htll PAil(                            84092-
,687,r00.0C    ,116117011                    SMtTTEfiST    ( & a arR wa9Ht3 rta
$141,/m.00     21)gtrotl                     9ME!TENST     ( & C CAR WASHTS It'                  63 41!OOS                    .AI'DY UT           8rr07G
l79.rm @       2126478001      7601S         STAGG ST      PHttPS,aUn(r                                                       sALI LAXt CIIY      44101
L0,t(D.(D      2126478004      7A)' S        5TA6 ST       PHILP!,CI.ARII                        390 r{ xsr                   SATT LArc CTTY      84101-
t10q700.00     7tt6,1a017      7602 5                      HI Ei, BRET R
t12460.00      21I647801I      7610   t                    PHEtPS,                               3q) xsT                      SALI LA(f CITY      84103-
$59,5(p.00     2126,7A0r,6     7638 S                      AiAEU. 'tARTI
                                                                  JUAII C E MAiIAT; I(           101 E MAIN SI                                    uo70-
t202780.@      2126478017      7642-7648 S                 HOtftiG, LArtt                        507 50uih t2@t.sr            5ta                 84102
1171.2O0.00                                  SMTLIERSI     caPUTO lltVtSrMtI{IS,    t tC         6197 SVtt{tCRtST Df,         3All tA(t oTt       8!12r
lr0{335-oo     212647t019      ,t92 s                      PATTIOT PiOPtNT! & MAI{AGtMtT'T.      Itt t 61tllst 312                                84107
397,0d).tD     7t76lreo10      75S S                       PAIiIOT PROPE iTY E MAI{AGT M tI{I,   15r t61mStrl!                                    a1to7
3?f.r00.00     2U647@21        7520 S                      (DX PROPEiIY MAIIIGIMt[T              ,@ s coIrotwooD              i,IDVAIT UI         8rr0{7
EXEMPT         ttt64r9@1       76&, S        HOt OErt ST   MtDt/att ctTY aoAtonaTlot'l           655 W aa t{rtR   t
EXEMPT         212647qX,8      76it3 S       llo1-DE 5T    Md\'AtI (ITY'ONDORAIbI{               655 W aUlrEi sI              MIOI/AU U'          e40.7-
3107,500.00    ,12647qx)9      769t S        HOtOEt SI     wttui,sTwt                            2957 t o^rtsH BnOOX          (ono w@0            a4721-
EXEMPT         2176.t9075      ,6{!t 5       HOLDE S]      Mrrv tE cm corPofialpfl               655 W(f iIER 5l                                  a4(}tt
EXEMPI         21164t9076      7643 5        HOLDEN 5T     MIDVALE CIIY       iPOSATIOII         655WCtr{rER5r                                    a4u7
EXEMPT         2!!er79021      7@S           BOLDtt ST     MDVAT (lrY CO
                                                                      'O RPORATETi               655WC {TtRSr        MIDVALE UT                   44047-
EXEMPT                         765' S        HOLD'N ST     UTAH POWIR & IIGHT                    T2' I{T MULTNOMAH5T mnTLAt{00n                   97731
3960.700 00    2tlill9o1,                    CE IINST      WTILER, STEVET{ X                     ,94 W CTNTER 5r     MIO'AI.E UI                  4M7-
EXEMPT                                       (tNTtisT      RtOtVtTOPM tNT AGEIICY OF MIOVATI     65lW(tmtRsr                                      84047,
3205,S0.00     !1t6a79orl      ,5tw          ct,trtR 5r    ortlota rffiEY I & tnlstN H; rr       ,52 W (trllti St             MIOVALT UT          uut
ti722a9.0o     2tt6a7q)rl                    ctNltf,sI     aOOLtY, MAnLANltt; In                                              TAYLOI'VITLI IJT 841r9
320a,cto.0o    2126479014      7ta w         ctr.ItR tT    GUtnAtio lulra At{                    t!a8, s Foro c ttf, cr       toulH roaoat        a40qs
tr!1,m0.00     2t264r90rt                    (8{TtR !T     ctuwrotE5au ,{c                       1872 W rams                  TAYLOiSV|UI Ur 8412+
t90.0q).q)     2D6{aOOOl       ,654   t                    Mto\rarE nvtsrMEt{Ts,     [c
t!2.8(I).q)    2125latx)04     7@-7f615                    MIOVAII NVTSTMEI{Ts, LtC                                                               8407t,
t71.9@.@       212646000t      76aa 5                      GC ItVtSTMEt{rS, tC                   2al s 2lx) t                 IAIT IArc CIIY      84111.
3a91,m0.00     2126440006      1674   t                    GCII INVESIMENIS, L(                  24t 5 200 r                  sal-T   tatt ctTY   84111-
EXEIIPT        2126440007      76a3 S        HOIDE ST                                            655 W   (0{r$ 9r                                 84117
t2sq100.00     21264A0003      76765                       rIiBO, MI'HAtLA                       51E4005                      sALI TAII CIIY 84111
l.3.1A2.(I)    2126440009      7674 5                      Dt [A CN[,z, ADA                      4A13SR|VERMIAOOW             IAYIONVILIT UI 4417t-
t559.3.2 00    2126480010      ,5ir-7646 S                 7680 MAtf{ tL(                                                     lAtT IArc C|IY      84101
t05.4@.@       !u6440011       75qt s                      i sMt6sg{, GLADYS tTAL                rc 80,( 491                  DRAPTi     I'I      8rt020
t28.5rD.rD                     76,!'7 S      STA@ 5T       RASMUSsE{, GLADYS, tT AL              PO 80X 491                   DMPEi UI            84020
stt.2lp.(D     2U544@1'        7665                        vtictt{T. rtrt 8. & rBEot{E a-        PO 80X 492                   DiAP[i t,T          4402G
1274,100.00    21t6440014      7696 S                      vNaEr{r, xtr{r B. & THtollt ?.        PO AOX 492                   DMPti UI            aao2G
t134,057.fi)   allaaml5        n6t                         t^vaiio, RoSA & 6tDot LA rAr(a        ,l!6 5 MAtt{ 5r                                  44047
17.eo0.00      2126440016      169!' 5       SIAG6 5T      iA!MUSS'iI, PEIIR C                   PO SOX 574                                       u04l-
3ra4,200.00    212644001,                    ctxTtRsl      PAHL DOIORES I     t RNA', DOLOitS l; lT a5TtwcotaxDrRoR                               a40ag
s86.4m.m       21264400t1                    CINTT R ST     AVANRO, ROSA & BEDOTIATAPA,                                                           84047-
117q500.00     2126480022      77185                       IiAVANTO, ROSA & E EOOLI.A IAPA       /,06 5 ira[{ sr                                  uu7
EXEMPT         112fna002,                    CENTIRSI                                            655 W CtNTEn sI                                  84047,
t42qdro.00     7116!€0074                    SMtLITR SI    CROFIS HOTDIIIG    ttc                24t S 2tx) E                 SALT LAIG CITY      84111-
t211700.00                                   CTNTTR SI     GUrnRIRO, rOEr& rUtlAA ]I             53,10 s loR DAN (alila   I                       84118
15s,80.m       1126440027      765 5                       vl{CtiiT, (.I{I8 &THEOIE Pi lT        PO BOX 492                   OiAPTR UT           8402G
EXEMPT         2 126440028                   CINITR ST     itDtvtLoPMtlT aGt (Y ot MrDvAtl       6! 5 W (t r{rm sr                                84{}Il
s691.@0 00     t1251530,9      770'   t                    WAII DISIGI{ GIO{JP LLC               ,07 5 MAI{ 5T
 Exhibit C
Zoning Map
           ZONING DISTRICTS
                                           YYVVY                                       YYYY

                                                                                                               >:
                                                                                                                    i-1
                                                                                                                     d

         B
                   IE
                Tn.-!ncton !l Lldv..
                Taro soutr ov.rr.y r72m O I
                                                                    lbtldnaal
                                                                                ^lunl.Ldty
                                                                                             25 (Ril.23)
                                                                                                               X.
         E JorCrn 91lr!I!o{rLy rJEOr                                Dupb/ ov.t1.! tsFt-ool                     x.
:l       6 l srd. si...r ov.d.y sso)                         =
                                                             A      aq.canr..t ov.,tay $Ft.ao)
                                                                                                               v
                                       I

1
I        W t,w.wdt o,,rd.r tRwot                             trl']Ll e.r. s'r.r,ss,
                                                             I      r,antt otand otvttopn.,t ioo,
         ! sngr r,nry rsr-rr                                        t nsh,n .lnctan tf")
                      Falaty 6F-zl                           1
                                                             A      Ja,*" Bufi 'JB)
         -sl1.            t   ituti{iNty t2'ta,4-' 2)
                                                             I      ny.otctt conEtx,t ,xc'
         -rdii!.nt
                                                             f      *sont comrcet
                                                                                             'act                                          i
                                                                    a..n kdusraiqt)
                                                             -
                                  i
                                  a
                                      I
                              a




                                                                                                                               l   I

                                                                                                                                   )


         ! rar                                    r               aiere+,
           ,.     II 1a                            er
                                                        E.
                                                                                tlt<                                                                          (
                                                                                                                                                              €
                 t
                                                        w

I                                                        6          G)                                                                              h7
                                                                                                                                                      5
            1
                                       I                            \                                                                               BEI
                                                   tt
                                                    .-'it r'., rr ::!,-
                                                                        I
                                                                            i                                                                      E $t
                                                                                                                                               _    c_zJ
                                                                                                                                                    irl
           ll                                                                                              I
                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                    -.n



                     E
                                             ,.
                                             ^a
                                            E
J,                                          ,h-

                                            f                                                                                                  [.
     t
                                                                                                                                                    @.
                          I


                                           wG@s                                                                                                           t
                                                                                                                    E
                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                          \
                                                                                                                          _J           i                      t
    Exhibit D
Principal Streets
    *oL
          \                   n f:[ff,i:..,rd-,
                 \                                     -.1
                                                       o                                                           I
                              Cuhat s tl

,e,      f-"-$                Jordan Rrver Blvd
                                           Z!ftFs rl
                                                                                                                       I
--las                                                        Whrmoy       t6,         qJ


    b                                                                                 a                I
\.1
@                                                                                                                  II
                                     St rrtndgc
J
)                                 sut?s lmvd?                                                                          I
                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                        t
                                                                                                               I



         E
                                                                                              I
                                                                                                       tt               zJt
 ',-fl
                                                                      L         .'
                                                                                                  W
                                                                ,t                                             00s
                                                                                          I
                                                  t


                                                                                                           o
                                                                                                           G
                                                                                                  F    o
                          I                                                                            z
                                                           a, I I    't
                                                           at                             I
                                                                          [ 2nd Ave
                                                           z
                                                           q)

                                                           a




                                                                                              I
                 Leo      s    cmily .
              Cr"rrncry        3tl?

             Centet St
                                                  I- Mavatk  AdYenlurc s
                                                     Frst Slop



                                                       I                                          II
