                                    ORDINANCE NO. 2O2I.O.2O

   AN ORDIINANCE AMENDING DEFINITIONS AND REGULATIONS RELATED TO
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT AS CONTAINED IN CHAPTER 13.16 OF THE MIDVALE
                        CITY MUNICIPAL CODE.

       WHEREAS, Midvale City is required, under the Clean Water Act Phase II, to obtain a
discharge permit for storm water from the State of Utah Department of Environmental Quality; and

       WHEREAS, under this permit the City has certain duties and responsibilities as outlined in the
City's Storm Water Management Plan; and

       WHEREAS, the State of Utah is tasked to ensure that the entities obtaining storm water
discharge permits are preforming the activities contained in their Storm Water Management Plan by
conducting audits of the individual entities storm program: and

        WHEREAS, the City was audited by the State on March 8, 9, 16. and 19,2021, which audit
resulted in deficiencies to the City's storm water program that needed to be corrected; and

        WHEREAS, several of these corrections involved deficiencies in the Stormwater Utility
Ordinance (Chapter 13.16 of the Midvale City Municipal Code). which has now been revised to
correct the deficiencies noted; and

       WHEREAS, the revised ordinance has been reviewed and approved by the City's legal staff
and by the State and found to be satisfactory.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Midvale City Council as follows:

        Section L Chapter 13.16 of the Midvale Municipal Code be amended as included in the
following attachments to this document:

               Attachment A: Chapter 13.16

       Section 2. A violation of this ordinance includes the possibility offines or imprisonment under
Midvale Municipal Code I .0 t .070. M idvale City is required, under Utah Code Ann. $ 788-22-301 , to
provide for indigent legal defense, as that term is defined in Utah Code Ann. $ 788-22-102.

       Section 3. This ordinance shall be effective upon the date offirst publication.


       APPROVED AND ADOPTED this l91h day olOctober 2021


                                                 ().
                                                 Robert M. Hale. Mayor
                                               Y SI4 rc

                                                            o
       T
                                       I                     ,I
                                       -                     t
                                       t      Jurv r' rtD


     L. Andreason,
City Recorder


Voting by the City Council     "Aye"       "Nay"

              Dustin Gettel
              Paul Glover
                               --v-
                                 l"'

              Quinn Sperry      r./'
              Heidi Robinson    ,r'
              Bryant Brown      a//

Dateofpublicati on Orf*oP 2O )A>
         t
    .t
I
     Midvale MunicipalCode                                                                                    Page l/8
     Chaprer 13.16 STORMWATER UTILITy


                                                    Chapter 13.16

                                              STORMWATER UTILITY


Sections:
13.t6.0t0     Purpose.
13.16.020     Definitions.
13.16.030     Storm\,Yater Utility created.
t3.16.040     Ownership of City stormwater facilities and assets.
t3.16.050     Utility administration.
13.16.060     Service charge imposed.
r3. r 6.070   System ofrates and charges,
13.16.080     Billing and collection.
r3.16.090     Appeal ofcharges.
r3.16.100     No polluted warers discharged to storm sewers.
l3.l6.l l0    Obstruction.
I3.t6.120     Dumping.
I 3. 16.130   Enforcement.
13. t6.140    Annual report to stormwater utility customers.
13.r6.t50     Long term stormwater management agreement required
13.16.160     Inspections.

13.16.010 Purpose.
The City finds and declares that absent effective maintenance, operation, regulation. and control, existing
stormwater drainage conditions in all areas within the City may constitute a potential hazard to the health, safety and
general welfare ofthe City and its residents. The City Council further finds lhat natural and manmade stormwater
facilities and conveyances constitute a stormwater system and that effective improvement, regulation, and control of
stormwater through formation ofa stormwater utility by the City requires the transfer to the utility ofall stormwater
facilities and conveyances and related rights belonging to rhe City. (Ord. 6/15/20040-23 $ I (part), 2004)

13.16.020 Definitions.
For the purpose ofthis Chapter, the following terms phrases and words shall mean:

A.     "Best Management Practices" or "BMPs" means management practices recognized by the United States
Environmental Protection Agency, the Utah Department ofEnvironmental Quality, or Midvale City that are
intended to prevent pollution, protect water sources, minimize fugitive dust, manage wastes, and control erosion

B.     "City" means Midvale City, a municipal corporation ofrhe State of Utah.

C.     "County" means Salt Lake County.

D.     "Council" means the Midvale City Council.

E. "Customer" or "person" means any individual; public or private corporation and its officers; pannership;
association; firm; truslee; personal representative ofan estate; the State of Utah or its departments, institutions,
bureaus, agencies; county; city; political subdivision; or any other govemmental or legal entity recognized by law.

F.    "Director" means the Citv's Public Works Director or desisnee.

G.     "Equivalent Residential Unit" or "ERU" is equal to three thousand square feet of impervious surface area.
This is based on an average single family residential parcel, which has an impervious surface area ofthree thousand
square feet.

H. "lmpervious surface" means a parcel's hard surface area that causes water to mn off its surface in quantities
or speeds greater than under natural conditions. Some examples of impervious surfaces are rooftops. concrete or
     Midvale MunicipalCode                                                                                        Page 2/8
     Chapter 13.16 STORMWATER UTll,lTY


asphalt paving, walkways, patios, driveways, parking lots or storage areas, and gravel that has been subject to
surface traffic, including compacted gravel surfaces.

l.    "Long Term Storm Water Management Plan" oT "LTSWMP" means a plan that meets the requirements of
Subsection 13. l6.l 50(C) and that manages stormwater and avoids pollution on a property for as long as the property
remains in its existing use.

J.   "Mitigation" means on-site facilities or practices which are designed to reduce stormwater quantity or improve
stormwater quality.

K.     "Municipal Separate Storm Water System permil" or "MS4 permit" means a permit issued and managed by
the Utah Department ofEnvironmental Quality given to a municipality to operale a municipal storm sewer system in
accordance with the United States Environmental Prolection Agency M54 storm\ryater management program. The
City's cunent M54 permit is # UTR090000.

L.   "Parcel ofreal property" means the smallest. separately scgregated unit of land having an owner. A parcel has
boundaries and surface area and is documented with a property number by the County.

M. "Developed parcel" means any parcel whose surface has been altered by grading, filling, or construction of
any improvement.

N.    "National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Stormwater Regulations" oT "NPDES Stormwater
Regulations" means the provisions ofthe Federal Clean Water Act establishing specific permit requirements for the
control of stormwater discharge.

O.     'Notice ofIntent" or "NOI" means a form required by the Utah Department ofEnvironmental Quality to
receive a Utah Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit for construction activity.

P.    "Single family residential parcel" means any parcel of land containing a single family or duplex dwelling, as
defined in Title 17, Midvale City Zoning Code.

a.     "Storm Water Pollution Prcvention Plan" or "SWPPP" means a site-specific, written document that identifies
potential sources of stormwater pollution at the construction site, describes pracrices to reduce pollutants in
stormwater discharges from the construction site, and identifies procedures the operator will implement to comply
with the terms and conditions ofa construction permit.

R. "Stormwat€C' means water produced by storms, surface drainage, snow and ice melt, and other water
permitted 10 be handled by the slormwater system.

S.   "Stormwater facilities" means any facility, improvement, development, or property made for conrrolling
stormwater quantity or quality,

T.    "Stormwater system" means all manmade stormwater facilities and conveyances and natural stormwater
sysrems, including designated open spaces, owned or maintained by the City lhat store, control, treat, or convey
stormwater.

U.     "Stormwater Utility" or -Utility" means the utility created by this Chapter, which operates. nraintains,
regulates and improves stormwater facilities and programs within Midvale City.

V.    "Undeveloped parcel" means any parcel that has not been altered by grading, filling, or construction

W. "Utah Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit" oT "UPDES permit" means a permit issued by the
Utah Department of Environmental Quality to a person that prevents stornwater runoff from washing pollutants into
local surface waters and is required before the person can discharge stormwater.

x.     "Utah DEQ" means the Utah Department ofEnvironmental Quality or its successor agency. (Ord
6/Is 120040-23 S I (part),2004)
     Midvale MunicipalCode                                                                                        I'agc 3/8
     Chapter 13.l6 STORMWAl'[R Ul lLlTY


13.16.030 Stormwater utility created.
There is hereby created and established a Stormwater Utility and service charge rate structure. The Utility will have
regulatory authority and responsibility for planning, design, construction. maintenance, administration. and
operation ofall City stormwater conveyances and facilities. (Ord. 6/15i2004O-23 S I (part).2004)

13.16.040 Ownership ofCity stormwater fecilities and rssets.
The City Manager shall determine which ofthe City's stormwater assets will be transferred to the Utility. Until such
transfer, the Utility shall operate, maintain, and improve existing City stormwater facilities used for the conveyance
of stormwaters thmugh, under or over lands or watercourses, beginning at a point where the stormwaters first enter
the stormwater system ofthe City and ending in each instance at a point where the stormwaters exit from the system
(Ord. 6t l5t2004O-23 $ I (part), 2004)

13.16.050 Utilityadministration.
The Stormwater Utility is administered by the City's Public Works Department. (Ord. 6/15/20040-23 S I (part),
2004\

13,16.060 Service charge imposed.
All persons otherwise responsible for impervious surfaces within the City which contribute runoffto the stormwater
system or who otherwise use or benefit from the Stormwater Utility ofthe City will be responsible for paying the
stormwater water utility fees as set fonh by resolution ofthe City Council. (Ord. 6/15/20040-23 S I (part).2001)

13.16.070 System of rates and charges.
A.   Service Fees lmposed. The City will impose stormwater water fee rates and charges on each parcel ofreal
property within the City except government.owned streets. The charges fund the administration, planning, design,
construction, water quality programming, operation, maintenance, and repair ofexisting and future stormwater
facilities,

B.      Methodsof DeterminingContribution of Stormwater

         l   Contributions ofstormwater from nonresidential parcels and residential parcels larger than duplexes
        have been ascenained through aerial photography by evaluating land surface and measuring the amount of
        impervious surface.

        2.   Contributions of stormwater from residential parcels have been established by estimating residential
        impervious areas.

C.    Method of Determining Service Fee Rates. Stormwater service fees are applied to each parcel ofreal propeny
within the City (including City-owned properties) except govemment-owned streets. Service fees are differentiated
according to the following classifications:

        l.    Residential Parcels. Single family residential and duplex parcels constitute one ERU.

       2.     Undeveloped Parcels. Undeveloped parcels have no charges applied,

       3.   Other Parcels. Charges for all other parcels are computed by multiplying the total ERUs for a parcel by
      the monthly rate. Total ERUs are calculated by dividing total square feet of impervious surface by three
      thousand square feet (one ERU).

       4.    Credit for On-Site Mitigation. A service charge credit is available for those non-single family residential
       parcel customers that exceed the City's stormwater development standards or reduce the City's downstream
       costs in providing stormwater capacity; provided, rhat ifthe City's standards are increased in the future, then
       only those customers who currently exceed the existing standards will continue to be eligible for a service
       charge credit. Ifa request for mitigation credit is granted, the credit will be applied to all charges liom the time
       ofthe credit request being accepted by the City and will be reflected on the next billing \ryithin thirty days after
       appeal is granted.
     Midvale Municipal Code                                                                                     Page 4/8
     Chapter 13.l6 STORMWATER UTILITY


     5.    Types ofStormwater Control Facilities. Stormwater control facilities located on a parcel may either hold
     runofffor a period of time and release it at a controlled rate to the stormwater water system (detention)or hold
     water until it evaporates or infiltrates into the ground (retention).

     6.    Source or Treatment Control Credits. Credit for improving quality ofstornlwater runolfwill be based on
     implementation ofsource or treatment controls which reduce or eliminate pollutants from its stormwater runoff
     before it enters the City's stormwater systenr.

     7.   Application for Service Charge Credit. Customers who believe their site conditions warrant a service
     charge credit may apply for a credit by requesting an application package from the City Engineer. No credit
     may exceed a forty-five percent reduction ofthe original service charge amount. (Ord. 6/ l5/20040-23    I
     (part),2004)                                                                                               "s


13.16.080 Billing and collection.
A.   Utility Enterprise Fund. This Chapter creates the stormwater utility fund. All revenues received from
stormwater user fees shall be placed in the enterprise fund as a designated fund, to be left separate and apart from all
other City funds. The collection, accounting and expenditure ofall stormwater utility funds will be in accordance
with the Utah Uniform Fiscal Procedures Act.

B.    Billing. The City will bill, or cause to be billed, parcel owners for stormwater utility services. Fees and
charges are considered delinquent ifnot paid as delermined by the procedures established by the City and are an
obligation to the City, which is subject to recovery in a civil action. (Ord. 6/15/20040-23 $ | (pan), 2004)

13.16.090 Appealofcharges.
A.      Appeal to Director. Any nonresidential customer who disagrees with the stormwater rate structure's
application to his/her parcel may apply to the Direcbr for a user fee adjustment. The adjustment request must state
the grounds for adjustment and must be filed in writing with the Director no later than thiny days after receipt of
billing. The Director will review the request and basis for user charges to determine whether an error was made in
the calculation or application ofthe fee. The Director may approve an adjustment to the fee.

B.     Appeal to City Manager. An appeal ofthe Director's decision must be brought before the City Manager
within thiny days afler the date ofthe Director's decision. The decision ofthe City Manager is final and conclusive.

C. Application ofCredit. Ifan appeal ofcharges is successful, a credit will be applied to all charges from the
rime ofthe appealed billing and will be reflected on a future billing after the appeal is granted. (Ord. 6/15 /20040-23
$ I (part), 2004)

13.16.100 No polluted waters discharged to storm sewers.
A.    Permissible Stormwater and Water Sources. The only substance allowed to be discharged into the City's
stormwater system is stormwater and surface drainage. subsurface drainage. groundwater. roof runoff. cooling water
or nonpolluted water as permitted by 13.16.120(B). Discharged water must comply with lhe City's stormwater
quality standards.

B.     Stormwater and Water Quantity. Stormwater and water for sources permitted under Subsection (A) may only
be discharged into stormwater facilities which have adequate capacity for the accommodation ofsuch water. The
quantity ofthe discharge into the City's storm drain system is 0.2 cfs/acre. The rainfall intensity is based on the l0-
year 24-hour storm. This rate is applicable only after any required retention is accounted for. The cunent retention
volumes will be based on requirements ofthe current UPDES permit, availability ofstorm drain infrastructure, and
the capacity ofthe storm drain infrastructure. The City Engineer or his/her designee will provide current retention
requirements.

C. Sediment and Erosion Control Plan Requirements. Any person or entity engaged in any land use or
construction activity disturbing greater than or equal to one acre or is part of a larger common plan of development
or sale which collectively disturbs land greater than or equal to one acr€ is required to submit an erosion control plan
either as part oftheir site plan package or separately for review and approval by the City Engineer or his/her
designee. The erosion control plan must meet or exceed the requirements set forth in the current UPDES permit. No
construction permits will be issued and no activities will be allowed until the erosion control plan has been
     Midvale MunicipalCode                                                                                       l'age 5,'8
     Chapter 13.l6 STORMWA fER Ul ll.ll Y


approved, and the BMPs identified in the erosion control plan are in place. The plan must include, at a minimum, the
following:

       I All existing drainage ways, including intermittent and wet weather. This much include any designated
       floodways or flood plains;

       2     Approximate limits ofproposed clearing, grading, and filling;

       3     Location, size, and layout ofproposed stormwater and sedimentation control improvements;

       4    Specific remediation measures or BMPs to prevent erosion and sedimentation run-off. Plans must include
       detailed drawings ofall control measure used. Stabilization measures including vegetation and non-vegetation
       measures, both temporary and permanent, must be detailed. Detailed construction notes and maintenance
       schedule must be included for all control measuresi

       5    Specific details for the construction ofrock pads, wash down pads. and senling basins for controlling
       erosion; access points for the site; and BMPs eliminating or limiting soil. sediment, and other debris on streets
       or other public ways must be included; and

       6     Location and details for concrete washout, trash container, port-a-potty, and storage areas.

D.     NOI and SWPPP requirements. All construction sites that fall under the requirements ofSubsection (C)
above are required to obtain an NOI from the Utah DEQ and prepare a SWPPP. The SWPPP must comply with and
meet the minimum requirements ofthe current UPDES Storm Water General Permits for Construction Activities, as
amended and posted by the utah DEQ. (ord. 6/ l5/20040-23 $ I (part).2004)

l3.l6.ll0 Obstruction.
A. lt is unlawful for any person to obstruct or contribute to the obstruction ofthe flow ofstormwater runoffor
nonstormwater runoff into any sump. retention basin, storm drain, curb and gutter, drain inlet, or other associated
structural controls that convey stormwater or nonstormwater runoff, unless the obstruction is authorized by the City
Engineer or his appointee and granted with the issuance ofa permit signed by the City Engineer or his appointee.

B.    It is unlawful for any person to cause any obstruction that inhibits the normal flow of stormwater or
nonstorrnwater runoff in any curb and gutter, unless the obstruction is authorized by the City Engineer or his
appointee and granted with the issuance ofa permit signed by the City Engineer or his appointee.

C.    lt is unlawful for a person to cover over any drain inlet for any reason or purpose, unless the obstruction is
authorized by the City Engineer or his appointee and granted with the issuance ofa permit signed by the City
Engineer or his appointee.

D.    Subsections (A) and (B) of this Section do not apply during clean-up periods established by the City, provided
the materials are placed according to any directions from the City and do not obstruct drain inlets. (Ord.
6/15t2004O-23 $ I (part), 2004)

13.16.120 Dumping and lllicit Discharge.
A.     It is unlawful for any person to dump or allow any type ofdebris, petroleum product, chemical. paint,
pesticide, herbicide, heavy metal, acid or base product, solid or Iiquid waste product. hazardous waste product,
human or animal waste, or nonstorrnwater except as permitted by Subsection (B) to be dumped into any sump,
detention basin, storm drain, curb and gutter, drain inlel, or other storm drainage structure that conveys stormwater
or nonstorTnwater,

B.   The restrictions set fonh in Subsection (A) ofthis Section do not apply to the normal runoffof
uncontaminated discharges from the following sources:

       l- Water line flushing or other potable water sources;
       2. Landscape irrigation or lawn watering with potable water;
     Midvale Municipal Code                                                                                     Page 6/8
     Chapter 13.16 STORMWATER UTILITY


       3. Diverted str€am flows;
       4. Rising ground \ryater;
       5. Uncontaminated ground water infiltration;
       6. Uncontaminated pumped ground water;
       7. Foundation or fooling drains;
       8. Air conditioning condensate;
       9. Discharge fiom crawl space pumps;
       10. Inigation water;

       I   l. Springs;
       12. Individual residential car washing;

       l3- Natural riprian habitat or wetland flows;
       14. Emergency firefighting activities:

       15. Residual street wash water;

       16. Dechlorinated swimming pool discharges; and

       17. Dechlorinated water reservoir discharges;



13.16.130 Enforcement.
A.     This Chaprer may be enforced through the Adminisrrative Code Enforcement Program ofthe Midvale
Municipal Code, or by filing civil or criminal actions. The City has sole discretion to decide whether to file a civil or
criminal case for a violation. The City may file both, or one or the other. The possibility ofan administrative remedy
pursuant to administrative code enforcement in no way interferes with the City's right to prosecute violations ofthis
Chapter as criminal offenses. The City may use any ofthe remedies available under the law in both civil and
criminal prosecution, lfthe City chooses to file both civil and criminal charges for the same violation, no civil
penalties may be assessed, but all other remedies are available.

B.    For construction-related activities, the City may take the following actions in addition to the actions permitted
under Subsection (A):

      l. Compliance Order. A Compliance Order is a written notification issued by the City and served on the
      owner/operator direcling the owner/operalor to correct work that is out ofcompliance with the approved
      SWPPP or other development approved plans. Work is allowed to continue for the time limit identified in the
      Compliance Order to correct the deficiencies noted. Failure to comply with the Compliance Order will result
      in a Stop Work Order being issued.

      2. Stop Work Order. A Stop Work Order is a written notification issued by the City and served on the
      owner/operator directing the owner/operator to stop all work immediately. Work can only be resumed after
      the conditions and the requirements ofthe Stop Work Order have been met and the City has conducted an
      inspection and issued a Notice ofCompliance. This also includes the suspension ofall building inspections

       3. Referralto Salt Lake County Health Department. The City will notiry the Salt Lake County Health
       Department ofany threatened discharge or public nuisance conditions that may or may not be related to
       construction requiremsnts.
     Midvale Municipal Code                                                                                     Page 7/8
     Chaprer 13.16 STORMWATER U tlL|TY


       4, Abatement. Whenever a violation is identified which will result in an immediate danger to public health or
       safety and the violation is not immediately corrected by the responsible party, Midvale City and Salt Lake
       County Health Department may take whatever actions are necessary to abate the violation. The cost of such
       abatement shall be charged to the responsible party. (Ord . 611512004C-23 S I (part), 2004)

13.16.140 Annual report to stormwater utility customers.
The City's Public Works Depanment will complete an annual report on the Stormwater Utility which, ifaccepted,
will be approved by the City Council. This report summarizes the financial activiries ofthe Utility and the major
areas ofexpenditure, field activities, accomplishments, income, and the upcoming year's priorities. (Ord.
6/ ts/20o4o-23 S I (part), 2004)

13.16.150 Long term stormwater management agreement required.
A.     Except single family residential parcels and undeveloped parcels, ev€ry parcel of real property that has been
developed or redeveloped on or after March 10, 2003, and disturb greater than or equal to one acre in size or projects
of less than one acre that are part of a larger common plan of development which collectively disturbs land area
equal to or greater than one acrs, is required to have its owner enter into an agreement with the City that outlines the
responsibilities ofthe owner for long term stormwater management. This agreement will be recorded with the Salt
Lake County Recorder's Office and will be binding on future parcel owners. Any party unwilling to enter into this
agreement may be denied a business license or have its business license suspended or revoked.

B. Every owner of a parcel of real property that is required to enler into an agreement under th is Section is
required to provide a bi-annual repon to the City rhat outlines the maintenance procedures used to keep the parcel's
stormwater facilities functioning properly.

C.      Every owner ofa parcel or real property that is required to enter into an agreement under this Section will also
be required to develop and submit to the City a LTSWMP. The owner of a parcel of real property is solely
responsible for the operation and maintenance of stormwater facilities located on the parcel, The stormwater
facilities must be adequately maintained, perform in a working manner, and comply with the terms ofany agreement
entered into under this Section and with the Utah Water Quality Act, Title 19, Chapter 5 of Utah Code Annotated, as
amended. At a minimum, the LTSWMP must contain the following information and a description of every BMP
utilized for each category:

       l. As built drawings: Provide an electronic copy ofas built drawings showing the overall site, drainage
       plan, and all stormwater facilities including; inlet boxes, pipes, detention and relention areas, all low-impact
       development (LlD) elements, flow restriction devices, and connection to the stormwater system;

       2. Parking, sidewalk and flatwork: Describe impervious surfaces and how the maintenance proposed will
       affect water quality;

       3. Landscaping; Describe the landscape elements used on site and how its presence and maintenance
       practices will affect water qualitl;

       4. Storm Drain System: Describe the elements ofthe storm drain system and how its presence and
       maintenance practices will affect water qualiry;

       5. Waste Management; Describe the waste management infrastructure and how its maintenance practices
       will affecr water quality;

       6. Utility System: Describe the utility infrastruature how the maintenance practices will affect water quality;
       7. Snow and lce Removal Management: Describe snow and ice removal operations and how those practices
       will affect water quality; and

       8. Equipmenr/Outside Storage: Describe any oulside storage facilities or operations and how they will
       impact water qualiry. (ord. 2017-07 $ I (Exh. A))
     Midvale MunicipalCode                                                                                     I'agc lt/{l
     Chapter 13.16 S rORMWA fER LlTlLlTY


13.16.160 lnspections.
A.     Purpose: To be in accordance with its M54 permit. theCity is required to conduct inspections to monitorall
stonnwater controls and BMPs, as well as all discharges to the City's stormwater system and to all natural water
bodies including lakes, streams. rivers, and canals.

B. Scope: lnspections relating to the MS4 permit include but are not limited to investigating illicit discharges;
observing construction activities, post construction operation, and maintenance of stormwater controls; reviewing
maintenance and repair records; sampling discharges, surface water. ground water, and material or water in drainage
control facilities; and evaluating the condition ofdrainage control facilities and other BMPs either publicly or
privately owned.

C.     Access:

       l. Visual inspections: Visual inspections ofdischarges to natural water bodies, spills, or stormwaler related
       controls on private property within the City are permitted by the City Engineer or designee at any time.

       2. Other inspections: When a visual inspection is not ad€quate to determine the extent ofdischarges to
       natural water bodies, spills. or to determine the status of stormwater related controls on private property, the
       City will give 24 hours notice ofthe inspection to take place and the extent ofthe inspection. Any equipment
       or personnel necessary will be allowed to access and work on the property as necessary to perform the
       inspection.

       3. Emergency inspection: During times ofemergency, including discharges to natural water bodies, spills or
       potential damage to life or property, the City may access the property as necessary and with the equipment
       required to perform the inspection. Reasonable attempts to contact the property owner prior to the inspection
       will be made prior to accessing the private property.

D.     Follow-up inspections: If problems are identified which require corrective action, then a follow up inspection
will be scheduled.
