                                 ORDINANCE NO. 2021-O-24

        AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 17.7.IO.II JORDAN BLUFFS
        SUBAREA 4 RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT OF THE MIDVALE CITY
                           MUNICIPAL CODE.

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated Sections l0-8-84 and l0-9a-501 through
l0-9a-503, Midvale City ("the City") has authority to make and amend any regulation of or
within zoning districts or any other provision ofthe land use ordinance to promote the prosperity,
improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, convenience, and aesthetics ofthe
municipality; and

        WHEREAS, on January 2,2002,lhe Midvale City Zoning Ordinance, Title l7 of the
Midvale City Municipal Code (the "Code"), became effective and is subject to amendments from
time to time pursuant to Section l7-3-1 the Code; and

         WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 16-04-010 of the Code, the City desires to promote the
protection of public health, life and safety; protect the character and social and economic
stability ofall parts ofthe city; protect and preserve the value olland throughout the
municipality; guide public and private policy and action; establish responsible standards; prevent
pollution and degradation ofair, streams, and ponds; preserve the natural beauty and topography:
and provide for open spaces through the most effect design and layout ofthe land;

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Section I 7- I - I of the Code, the City desires to promote
coordinated development, redevelopment. effective use ofland. and site planning; protect and
promote public safety, health, and general welfare by providing adequate light and air, water and
sewage control, police, fire and wetlands protection; and secure economy in governmental
expenditures; and

       WHEREAS, the City desires to amend Chapter l7-7-10.1 I to address landscaped
setback areas along Seghini Drive; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on November 10, 2021, to
review the request for a text amendment and. after considering allthe information received.
made a recommendation to approve the text amendment request to the City Council; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on December
7 , 2021; and

       WHEREAS, after taking into consideration citizen testimony, planning analysis, and the
Planning Commission's recommendation as part of its deliberations, the City Council finds it is
appropriate and within the best interest ofthe City to make changes to the Code.

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah
as follows:
      Section    l.
                  The following sections of the Midvale City Municipal Code are hereby
amended as included in the following attachments to this document:

                Attachment A: Amending Chapter l7-7-10.1 I Jordan Bluffs Subarea 4
                Residential Development

        Section 2. This ordinance shalltake eff'ect upon the date offirst publication.

        PASSED AND APPROVED this 7th day of December, 2021 .
                                   ,Y SI4 14.

                                  \co ouro c
                        s                            Robert Hale, Mayor
                        2                        -
                                  4tv r. u      *
A                             o                      Voting by City Council   "Aye"      "Nay"
                                                     Quinn Sperry              tz'
                                                     Paul Clover               t,'
                                                     Heidi Robinson            l"''
          reason.     MC                             Bryant Brown
City Recorder                                        Dustin Gettel

Date of first pub lication:
..:
                                 Attachment A:
                                Chapter l7-7-l0.ll
               JORDAN BLUFFS SUBAREA 4 RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT

Sections:
I 7-7- 10.1 I .l   Purpose.
t7 -7-t0.11.2      Uses.
t7 -7-10.1.3       Development Review Process.
I 7-7-10.1 I .4    Residential Development Standards.
l7-7-10.11.5       Landscaping Standards.
I 7-7- 10.1 I .6   Architectural Standards.
t7 -7-10.1I .7     Parking and Access.
l7-7-l0.ll.8       utilities.
I7-7-l0.II.9       Signage.
l7-7-10.11.10       Home Occupation Standards.
l7-7-l0.ll.ll       Institutional Controls.


17-7-10.11.1 Purpose.

[No changes in this section.]

l7-7-10.11.2 Usqs.

[No changes in this section.]

17-7-10.11.3 Development Review Process.

[No changes in this section.]

17 -7 -10.11.4 Residential Development        Standards.

The following development standards apply to all new development:

A. Lot Size. No minimum lot size is required, but the lot size must be sufficient to accomplish
the development standards of this chapter and the building code.

B. Setbacks. All setbacks are measured from the property line. There are no minimum setbacks
except as required by the building code. required landscape setbacks. residential landscape
buffers. and the residential setback.

C. Residential Setback. The minimum setback from the property line to a new residential
structure when adjacent to a property with a residential use is twenty feet.

D. Build{o Line. When adjacent to Main Street" lvy Drive or an interior public or private road,
a thirty-foot landscape setback, measured from the property line adjacent to said road, is
required. In the case of Main Street. the landscape setback shall be measured from the new right-
of-way line created per Section I 7-7- 10, I I .i(A)(6Xe). These setbacks shall serve as the build-to
line for residential structures. At least fifty percent ofthe front elevations must be built within
five feet of the build+o Iine. The planning commission may modify this requirement for changes
in wall plane due to architectural features or if the site is encumbered by curvilinear roads and/or
property lines. Residential structures in "Area A" identified in Figure I of this chapter. ur(l rl(in!
llre cnlirct\,rl \crlrini I)rire. shall not be subject to the build-to line requirement. At grade patios
and porches may extend into the thirty-foot landscape setback up to eight feet.

E. Residential Density. The maximum residential density is thirty units per acre averaged over
Subarea 4.

F. Except for ordinary repairs and maintenance of lighting approved and installed after January
2,2002, all new development must comply with the following outdoor lighting standards:

      l. Light Source.
             a. Light sources shall be at least as efficient as LED and no greater than four
             thousand K in correlated color temperature (CCT).

             b. Light levels shall be designed such that light trespass measured at the property
             line does not exceed 0.01 foot-candles.

             c. Light fixtures shall use a cutoff luminaire that is fully or partially shielded with no
             light distributed above the horizontal plane ofthe luminaire or into nearby residential
             structures-

             d.  In no case shall the total lumens emitted for a single site exceed one hundred
             thousand lumens per acre.

      2. Parking Lot Lighting. Parking lot lighting shall be designed and constructed to comply
      with the following standards:

             a    Pole Height/Design

                  i.  Luminaire mounting height is measured from the parking lot or driveway
                  surface and may range from ten feet to thirty feet. based on review of site plan,
                  proposed land uses, surrounding land uses, parking area size, building mass,
                  topography of site. and impacts on adjacent properties.

                  ii. Poles and fixtures shall be black, dark brown, or another neutral color
                  approved by the community development director.

                  iii.     All attempts shall be made to place the base of light poles within landscape
                  areas
         iv.  Light poles in parking areas shall not exceed thirty feet in height. Poles
         exceeding twenty feet in height are appropriate only for parking areas exceeding
         two hundred stalls and not in close proximity to residential areas.

3. Other Outdoor Lighting Standards.
    a. Wall-mounted lighting fixtures shall not be located above eighteen feet in height
    unless being used as building accent lighting. Fixture styles and finishes shall
    complement the building exterior.

    b. Lighting located along pedestrian pathways or in areas primarily dedicated to
    human activity shall be bollard style lighting or down-directed lighting not to exceed
    twelve feet in height. Pedestrian lighting shall be coordinated through each project and
    shall complement adjacent projects to the greatest extent practical.

    c. In order to avoid light pollution, backlit awnings. up-light spotlights, and
    fl oodlights are prohibited.


    d. Street lighting shall either be chosen from the city's approved streetlight list or
    installed to match a theme set by developments within the zone or neighborhood.

    e. Lighting for outdoor athletic facilities may be mounted on a roofor wall at a
    height above the typical eighteen-foot maximum provided it is demonstrated by the
    applicant through submittal ofappropriate documentation and light studies showing
    that the facility cannot otherwise be properly lighted. This lighting shall comply with
    the fol lowing requirements:

         i. Light fixtures and necessary supports shall not extend more than four feet
         above the roof line;

         ii. Light fixtures shall include appropriate shields to ensure no light trespass off
         the site;

         iii.  Light fixtures shall include appropriate shields and louvers to minimize. to
         the greatest extent possible. any point source light pollution;

         iv. Light fixtures and supports shall be painted to blend with the color scheme
         ofthe structure to which they are mounled;

         v. Light fixtures shall be dimmable to address any possible unforeseen light
         impacts once they are constructed and operable; and

         vi. The planning commission shall review the hours of light usage and shall
         approve an appropriate usage schedule depending on the specific situation and
         impacts on the surrounding area,
     4. Upgrading Preexisting Lighting. An applicant must bring preexisting lighting into
     compliance with this code upon application with the business license department for a
     change in ownership, new business in a stand-alone structure or in a multi-tenanl structure
     in which the new business utilizes more than fifty percent ofthe building square l'ootage on
     the site, in conjunction with an application for a building permit for any alteration, remodel
     or expansion of any structure on the site, or in conjunction with changes to the approved
     site plan.

     5.  Lighting Plan Submission Requirements. A lighting plan is required for all
     developments and must contain the following:

          a. Plans indicating the location on the premises and the type of illumination devices.
          fixtures, lamps. supports. reflectors. installation and electrical details:

          b.  Description of illuminating devices. fixtures, lamps, supports. reflectors. and
          other devices that may include, but is not limited to, manufacturer catalog cuts and
          drawings, including section where required, and photometric data, such as that
          fumished by manufacturers, or similar showing the angle of the cutoffor light
          emission: and

          c    A point-by-point light plan to determine the adequacy ofthe lighting over the site.

     6. Exceptions. The following requirements are intended to provide exceptions to specific
     lighting regulations set fonh herein:

          a. Up to two thousand five hundred lumens of upward-directed lighting per acre is
          permitted for landscape, architecture, and artistic uses provided no measurable light
          trespass occurs beyond property lines.

          b. Street lights installed along public and private rights-of-way are exempt from the
          lumen-per-acre limit.

          c. String or bistro lighting is exempt from the cutoff. down-directed, and shielded
          requirements. (Ord.2020-15 $ I (Att. A) (part); Ord.20l9-06 S I (Att. B) (part); Ord.
          2017-17 $ I (Att. A) (part))

l7-7-10.11.5 Landscaping Standards.

The following landscaping standards apply to all new residential development:

A. Required Open Space, Landscaping and Recreational Amenities. The applicant shall
professionally landscape the project properlyi in accordance with an approved landscape plan.
The landscape plan shall include details fbr the open space, landscape and recreational amenity
areas required in the approved large scale master plan for the specific development area. The
amount ofopen space, landscaping and recreation amenity area for a specific development
within Subarea 4 shall not be less than that included in the approved large scale master plan.
Landscape plan approval is a condition precedent to issuance ofa building permit for the project
property. All landscaping shall be in place prior to issuance ofa certificate ofoccupancy fbr a
structure, unless seasonal conditions make installation unfeasible, in which case the applicant
shall provide cash security or its approved alternative for all landscaping, which landscaping
shall be installed by the following May 3 lst.

B. Landscaped Setback from Edge of Public or Private Right-of-Way. The landscaped setback
from the edge ofa public right-of-way or private right-of-way shall be a minimum ofthirty feet.
crccl.rt akrnt Scghini I)rirc. rrhclc thc Iandscapc sctblck shall hc l rnininrrrnr ol'tuentr tcct.

C. Residential Landscape Buffer. New development adjacent to a property with a single-family
use shall provide a minimum fifteen-foot landscaped buffer consisting of large trees, shrubs, and
a minimum six-foot and a maximum eight-foot screening wall along the residential property
boundary. The screening wall shall be constructed ofprecast concrete. SimTek Ecostone Plus (or
equivalent), brick, masonry or other permanent materials, and shall have a finish that
complements the development along all property boundaries adjacent to single family residential
use,


D. Planting Standards. Landscape plans shall address the following standards:
       l. Building Foundation Landscaping. The ground adjacent to the building foundation
       must be landscaped if it is visible from public vantage points. Building foundation
       landscaping shall consist ofa combination of small and medium sized deciduous and
       evergreen shrubs, grasses and perennials.

       2. Street Frontage Tree Requirements. An applicant shall provide at least one street tree
       for each forty lineal feet of frontage along all public and private roads. Street frontage trees
       may be clustered or spaced linearly near the sidewalk as provided in an approved landscape
       plan.

       3. Minimum Number of Trees. A minimum of one tree for every four hundred square feet
       ofrequired landscaping is required for all landscaped areas. Street trees may be included in
       calculations to meet this requirement.

       4. Plant Materials. Areas requiring landscaping shall be planted with substantial live plant
       material including: plants, shrubs. trees, sod, etc.. for the purpose of buffering, screening,
       and improving the visual quality ofthe site. Plants selected for landscape areas shall consist
       ofplants that are well suited to the microclimate and soil conditions at the project site.
       Plants with similar water needs shall be grouped together as much as possible. I-andscaped
       areas less than four feet wide shall be landscaped with water conserving plants.

            a. Types of Vegetation. At least fifteen percent ofthe landscaping must be
            evergreen. Up to twenty-five percent ofthe landscape area may include specialty
            paving, street fumiture, and outdoor seating areas. Trees that are planted in the park
            strip shall meet the specifications described in the standard construction specifications
            of Midvale City.
     b. Size ofTrees. The following standards apply to the use ofplant and tree material:
          i. Deciduous Trees. All deciduous trees shall have a minimum caliper size of
          one and one-half inches.

          ii. Ornamental Trees. All ornamental trees shall have a minimum caliper size of
          one and one-half inches.

          lll.    Evergreen Trees. All evergreen trees shall have a minimum height of six
          feet.

5. Mulch. After completion olall planting. all irrigated nonturfareas shall be covered
with a minimum four-inch layer of mulch to retain water, inhibit weed growth. and
moderate soil temperature. Nonporous material shall not be placed under the mulch.

6. Soil Preparation. Soil preparation will be suitable to provide healthy growing
conditions for the plants and to encourage water infiltration and penetration. Soil
preparation shall include scarifying the soil to a minimum depth of six inches and
amending the soil with organic material as per specific recommendations ofthe landscape
designer based on the soil conditions.

7. Planting PIan. A detailed planting plan shall be drawn at a scale that clearly identifies
the following:

     a. Location ofall plant materials and ground covers, a legend with botanical and
     common names, and size of plant materials;

     b. Property lines and street names:
     c. Existing and proposed buildings, walls, fences, utilities, paved areas and other site
     improvements;

     d. Existing trees and plant materials to be removed or retained;
         Designation of landscape zones; and

     f. Details and specification for tree staking (trees less than a two-inch caliper must
     be double-staked untilthe trees mature to two-inch caliper), soil preparation, and other
     planting work.

8.   Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design (CPTED). The plan must
demonstrate how CPTED principles will be used in the design and layout ofbuildings,
streets, accesses and open space areas. Design shall promote natural surveillance, access
control, territorial reinforcement, sense ofownership, and maintenance. CPTED
landscaping guidelines shall be used. including planting shrubs so as not to impede natural
     surveillance and trees with a proper ground clearance of six feet above walkways and
     sidewalks and eight feet above vehicular travel and parking lanes. To encourage public
     safety through natural surveillance, natural access control, and territorial reinforcement,
     blank walls are discouraged adjacent to streets, pedestrian areas, and open space amenities
     Symbolic barriers, such as low-lying fences/walls, landscaping and signage, shall be used
     to discourage crime and to promote safety. Ground floor parking garages are discouraged
     immediately adjacent to streets. Developments shall have street-side building elevations,
     with windows, and with balconies, decks or landscape terraces encouraged.

     9. Plan Review and Construction Inspection
          a. As part ofthe site plan approval process, a copy ofthe landscape plan
          documentation package shall be submitted to the city for review and approval.

           b. Following construction and prior to issuing the approval for occupancy, an
          inspection shall be scheduled with the planning department to verify compliance with
          the approved landscape plans.

          c. The city reserves the right to perform site inspections at any time before, during
          or after the irrigation system and landscape installation, and to require corrective
          measures if requirements of this chapter are not satisfied.

      10. Removal. No required landscaping shall be removed without replacement ofequal or
     better quality. This shall include the installation ofhealthy plant materials as well as a tree-
     for-tree replacement as governed by this chapter.

E. Irrigation Standards. lrrigation plans shall be designed to accompany the landscape plan and
shall address the following standards:

      l. A pressure-regulating valve shall be installed and maintained by the consumer ifthe
     static service pressure exceeds eighty pounds per square inch (psi). The pressure-regulating
     valve shall be located between the meter and the first point of waler use, or first point of
     division in the pipe, and shall be set at the manufacturer's recommended pressure for the
     sprinklers.

     2. All irrigation systems shall include an electric automatic controller with rnultiple
     program and multiple repeat cycle capabilities and a flexible calendar program. All
     controllers shall be equipped with an automatic rain shut-offdevice, and the ability to
     adjust run times based on a percentage of maximum ETO.

     3. On slopes exceeding thirty{hree percent. the irrigation system shall consist ofdrip
     emitters, bubblers or sprinklers with a maximum precipitation rate of 0.85 inches per hour
     and adjusted sprinkler cycle times to eliminate runoff.
     4. Each valve shall irrigate a landscape with similar site, slope and soil conditions and
     plant materials with similar watering needs. Turfand nonturfareas shall be irrigated on
     separate valves. Drip emitters and sprinklers shall be placed on separate valves.

     5. Drip emitters or a bubbler shall be provided for each tree unless located in a turfarea.
     Bubblers shall not exceed one and one-halfgallons per minute per device. Bubblers for
     trees shall be placed on a separate valve unless specifically exempted by the city due to the
     lirnited number oftrees on the project site.

     6. Sprinklers shall have matched precipitation rates with each control valve circuit.
     7.   Check valves shall be required where elevation differences will cause low-head
     drainage. Pressure-compensating valves and sprinklers shall be required where a signilicant
     variation in water pressure willoccur within the irrigation system due to elevation
     differences.

     8. Filters and end flush valves shall be provided as necessary for drip irrigation lines
     9. Valves with spray or stream sprinklers shall be scheduled to operate between six p.m.
     and ten a.m. to reduce water loss from wind and evaporation.

     10. Program valves for multiple repeat cycles where necessary to reduce runoff.
     particularly on slopes and soils with slow infiltration rates.

     II   . Spacing of irrigation heads shall not exceed fifty-five percent of coverage diameter
     12. Backflow preventer device is required and shall be located between the water meter
     and stop and waste valve.

     13. Inigation Plan. A detailed irrigation plan shall be drawn at the same scale as the
     planting plan and shall contain the following information:

            a, Layout ofthe irrigation system and a legend summarizing the type and size ofall
            components of the system;

            b.   Static water pressure in pounds per square inch (psi) at the point ofconnection to
            the public water supply;

            c. Flow rate in gallons per minute and design operating pressure in psi for each
            valve and precipitation rate in inches per hour for each valve with sprinklers; and

            d. Installation details for irrigation components.
F. Fencing. Fencing shall be part ofthe landscape plan and shall comply with the following
      L Perimeter Fencing.
          a. Fences or walls constructed of sight-obscuring solid materials shall not be located
          within the landscape setback along a public or private right-of-way.

          b. Fences up to six feet in height constructed of non-sight-obscuring, open materials,
          such as wrought iron, picket with gaps greater than the width ofthe slats, etc.. may
          only be located in the landscape setback along 7800 South, Le Page Street and Holden
          Street.

          c. Screening walls up to eight feet in height are allowed along property boundaries
          adjacent to existing development located outside Subarea 4. The screening wall shall
          be constructed of precast concrete, SimTek Ecostone Plus (or equivalent), brick,
          masonry or other permanent materials, and shall have a finish that complements the
          development.

     2. Interior Fencing. Fences shall not be used to delineate individual developments within
     Subarea 4. lnterior fencing shall only be used as needed for recreational amenities.

     3. All fencing and screening walls shall be constructed to comply with sight distance
     requirements at road intersections and driveways. (Ord.2017 -17 $ | (Att. A) (part))

l7 -7 -10.11.6 Architectural Standards.


[No changes in this section.]

l7-7 -l0.ll.7 Parking and Access.

[No changes in this section.]

I7-7-10.t1.8 lltilities.

[No changes in this section.]

17-7-10.11.9 Signage.

[No changes in this section.]

17-7-10.11.10 Home Occupation Standards.

[No changes in this section.]

17-7-10.11.11 Institutional Controls.

[No changes in this section.]
