|
MIDVALE CITY, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2021-O-13
AN ORDINANCE TO ADOPT CHAPTER 05.38 AND CHAPTER 10.06 OF THE
MIDVALE MUNICIPAL CODE REGULATING THE USE OF E-SCOOTERS AND
RIDE SHARE SCOOTER OPERATIONS AND MAKING CONFORMING
AMENDMENTS TO CHAPTER 12.08.060.
WHEREAS, the desire for using e-scooters have increased across the Salt Lake Valley;
WHEREAS, e-scooter ride share programs have expressed interest in making e-scooters available
for short term rentals within Midvale City and neighboring municipalities;
WHEREAS, Midvale City wishes to enhance mobility and access, ease traffic congestion and
promote sustainability;
WHEREAS, the Utah legislature has permitted cities to regulate the operation of e-scooters and
the City desires to provide additional regulations governing the operation of e-scooters inside City
boundaries; and
WHEREAS, the Midvale City Council finds that the provisions of this ordinance further the
health, safety, and welfare of City residents and visitors.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah as
follows:

Section 1: Amend the Midvale Municipal Code by enacting Chapter 05.38, regulating
e-scooter ride share program business licensing and operations, as set forth in Attachment A which
is attached to and incorporated in this ordinance.

Section 2. Amend the Midvale Municipal Code by enacting Chapter 10.06, regulating
the use of e-scooters within Midvale City boundaries, as set forth in Attachment B which is
attached to and incorporated in this ordinance.

Section 3. Amend Chapter 12.08.060 of the Midvale Municipal Code, allowing the
use of e-scooters on sidewalks, as set forth in attachment C which is attached to and incorporated
in this ordinance.

Section 4. The adopted changes of Midvale Municipal Code shall be effective
immediately.

APPROVED AND ADOPTED this f day of S 2021.

Robert M. Hale, Mayor
AT nS ;
wnt STATS
. ; « %
Ro 1 L. Andreason, MMC 2 es i
City Recorder $c NK, uty 1,19 *
Orn RATE oY,
Voting by the Council: “Aye” “Nay” ome
Quinn Sperry a
Paul Glover a
Heidi Robinson oe
Bryant Brown il
Dustin Gettel ee
Ri eusvers May %, Z0Z |
|

Attachment A
Chapter 5.38
E-SCOOTER OPERATORS

Sections:
5.38.010 Definitions.
5.38.020 Scooter-Share Programs.
5.38.030 Enforcement.
5.38.010 Definitions.
For purposes of this Chapter, the definitions of Chapter 10.06 are adopted. In addition to those definitions, the
following terms, phrases, words, and their derivatives as used in this Chapter have the meanings set forth in this
section:
A. “Abandon” means leaving an item unattended for any length of time.
B. “Fleet manager” means the person responsible for the daily operations of a scooter-share program, who
must be based in the City.
B. “Geo-fence” or “geo-fencing” means a feature in a software program using a global positioning system
("GPS") or radio frequency identification ("RIFD") technology to define virtual geographical boundaries.
C. “Licensee” means any scooter-share operator who obtains and holds a business licensee as required by this
chapter.
D; “Scooter-share operator” means a person offering a shared e-Scooter for hire.
E, “Scooter-share program” means the offering of a shared e-Scooter for hire.
F, “Shared e-Scooter” means an e-Scooter offered for hire.
5.38.020 Scooter-Share Programs.
A. License and Fees.

1. No person may permit a shared e-Scooter owned or controlled by such person to be in service for hire
upon the streets of the City unless such person is authorized to do so under a business license obtained
from the City.

2. No person may operate a scooter-share program in the City without first obtaining a business license as
required in Chapter 5.02.

3. A license granted under this chapter is non-transferable.

4. Licensee must pay the applicable business licensing fees required in Chapters 5.02 and 5.08, as
established by resolution of the City Council.

5. Licensee must pay a fee for the City's reasonable and necessary costs in Licensee administering
scooter-share program as set forth in the City’s | ee schedule.

6. Licensee must pay a reasonable fee for the use of the City's right-of-way as set forth in the City’s fee
schedule. Such fee must be commensurate and proportional to fees charged for similar uses.
B. Denial, Revocation and Suspension.
The City may deny, revoke, or suspend a license granted under this chapter in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5.04. In addition to other provisions in Chapter 5.04, the City may deny, suspend, or revoke any license for
the following reasons:
1. Failure to provide the information requested or required by the City;
2. Operating or proposing to operate in a manner that endangers public health or safety;
3. Failure to comply with any provision of this Chapter (or successor provision or provisions) or any term
or condition imposed on the licensee; or
4. Cancellation for any reason of any insurance policy issued to licensee. The license is automatically
suspended. To reinstate the license, the licensee shall provide a new certificate and insurance policy to
the City.
G. License Application.
1. In addition to completing a business license application under Section 5.02.040, an applicant must
submit to the business license division an application containing the following to obtain a license:
I. The name, phone number and email address of the applicant's fleet manager. Any change in this
information must be reported to the business license division within 24 hours of the change;
II. A phone number, available 24 hours a day seven days a week, for the public and the City to report
improper abandoned, damaged or inoperable shared e-Scooters and other violations;

III. The number and types of shared e-Scooters to be operated in the City;

IV. The applicant's proposed operations in the City including the plan for balanced shared e-Scooters
for citywide coverage, the plan for shared e-Scooter maintenance, plan for customer service, and
levels of staff for operations and administration;

V. The applicant's plans to educate users of shared e-Scooters about applicable State and City traffic
laws, this chapter and other applicable laws, regulations, and guidelines;

VI. The applicant's plans to implement safety programs, including a program by which the applicant
will receive information about and notify users of inappropriate use and a deactivation program;

VII. The applicant's GPS enabled tracking system, or such other tracking system as may be acceptable
to the City;
VIII. The applicant's plans to regularly share accurate and reliable historical and survey data regarding
ridership, maintenance, and safety issues concerning the applicant's fleet;

IX. The applicant's plans to comply with federal, state, and local data privacy laws and otherwise to
protect the privacy of personal information provided by users;

X. Proof of insurance coverage as required by this chapter; and

XI. An agreement to indemnify the City as reqnired by this chapter.

2. An applicant must notify the business license division of any change in the information contained in
the application. If the information includes an increase in the number of shared e-Scooters, any
additional fees due must be submitted to the business license division simultaneously with the change
in information.

D. Insurance.

1. A scooter-share operator must have and keep in full force and effect no less than the insurance
coverage required by this section through a policy or policies written by an insurance company that:

I. Is authorized to do business in the State of Utah with a Bests' rating of no less than A-, IX;

II. Is acceptable to the City; and
III. Does not violate the ownership or operational control prohibition described in this section.

2. The insured provisions of the policy must name the City and its officials, officers, employees, and
volunteers as additional insureds, and the coverage provisions must provide coverage for any loss or
damage that may arise to any person or property because of, arising out of, or by reason of the
operation of a scooter-share program.

3. The scooter-share operator's insurance coverage must be a primary insurance as respects to the City, its
officials, officers, employees, and volunteers. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City,
its officials, officers, employees or volunteers is in excess of the scooter-share operator's insurance and
does not contribute with it.

4. A scooter-share operator must maintain the following insurance coverage dedicated exclusively for the
operation of shared e-Scooters:

I. Commercial general liability insurance coverage with a limit of $1,000,000.00 each occurrence
and $5,000,000.00 aggregate;

II. Automobile insurance coverage with a limit of $1,000,000.00 each occurrence and $1,000,000.00
aggregate;
III. Umbrella or excess liability coverage with a limit of $5,000,000.00 each occurrence and
$5,000,000.00 aggregate; and
IV. Workers' compensation coverage of no less than required by Utah law.

5. Insurance required under this section must:

I. Include a cancellation provision in which the insurance company is required to notify the business
license division in writing not fewer than 30 days before cancelling the insurance policy (for a
reason other than non-payment) or before making a reduction in coverage;

II. Include a cancellation provision in which the insurance company is required to notify the business
license division in writing not fewer than ten days before cancelling for nonpayment;
III. Cover all shared e-Scooters during the times that the shared e-Scooters are deployed or operating
in furtherance of the scooter-share program;
IV. Include a provision requiring the insurance company to pay every covered claim on a first-dollar
basis; and |

V. Comply with all federal, state, and local laws.

6. Ifany insurance policy is cancelled for any reason, the license granted under this chapter is
automatically suspended. To reinstate the license, the licensee shall provide a new certificate and
policy of insurance to the City.

7. No person who has a 20 percent or greater ownership interest in the scooter share program may have
an interest in the insurance company.

8. A scooter-share operator may not be self-insured.

9. Proof of the insurance coverage required in this section must be on file with and approved by the City
prior to issuance of a license to operate and must remain in effect during the term of the license and
any renewal of the license.

E. Indemnification.

1. To the fullest extent permitted by law, a scooter-share operator indemnifies, holds harmless, and
defends the City and its officials, officers, employees, volunteers, and other representatives,
individually and collectively, from and against any and all actions, claims, demands, liability, liens,
damages, losses, expenses, fees, fines, penalties, costs, including attorneys’ fees, and suits of any kind
and nature, including, but not limited to, personal or bodily injury, death and property damage made
upon the City directly or indirectly arising out of, resulting from, or related to the City's issuance of a
license, the decision to approve a scooter-share license, the process used by the City in making its
decision to issue a license, the negligent or reckless operation of a scooter-share program, the negligent
or reckless operation of shared e-Scooters, or the negligent, reckless, or intentional acts, errors or
omissions of the scooter-share operator, its officers, employees, and agents.

2. Ifthe City's tender of defense, based on this indemnity provision, is rejected by the scooter-share
operator, and the scooter-share operator is later found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have been
required to indemnify the City, then in addition to any other remedies the City may have, the scooter-
share operator must pay the City's reasonable costs, expenses, and attorneys’ fees incurred in providing
such indemnification, defending itself, or enforcing this provision.

3. The indemnity in this section does not apply to any liability resulting from the City's negligence or
willful misconduct The City has the right, at its option, to participate in such defense, including
retention of separate advisory legal counsel, without relieving the scooter-share operator of any of its
obligations under this indemnity.

F. Limitations on City Liability.

1. The City does not assume any liability whatsoever with respect to having issued a license under this
chapter or otherwise approving the operation of any scooter-share program.

2. The City is not responsible to educate users on how to ride, safely operate, where and how to park, or
use safety equipment.

3. The City is not responsible for providing security at any location where licensee's shared e-Scooters
are stored, located, parked or abandoned by licensee or its users.

4. The City does not waive any immunity under the Governmental Immunity Act of Utah, Utah Code
Ann. § 63G-7-101 et seq., as amended.

G. Licensees' Responsibilities.
The licensee must:

1. Provide a local fleet manager, or another designated representative, who must be available to respond
in a timely manner to all safety concerns, complaints, questions, relocation requests or any other
issues;

2. Maintain a 24-hour customer service toll-free phone number and email address for City employees,
riders, and the public to report safety concerns, complaints, or to ask questions;

3. Provide City with a list individually identifying all shared e-Scooters in licensee's fleet deployed in the
City;

4. Make any shared e-Scooter unavailable to riders for which a safety or maintenance concern is reported
and remove the shared e-Scooter from City's right-of-way usually within two hours, but not later than
four hours, of receiving notice;

5. Regularly inspect, clean and repair all licensee’s shared e-Scooters;

6. Respond to requests for rebalancing or reports of incorrectly parked or unsafe/inoperable shared e-
Scooters by relocating, re-parking, or removing the shared e-Scooters as appropriate, usually within
two hours, but not later than four hours, of receiving notice;

7. Operate all motor vehicles for pickup and deployment of shared e-Scooters only on public roads,
streets, alleys, and other right-of-way specifically designated for use by motor vehicles;

8. Remove all licensee’s shared e-Scooters from City's right-of-way during times that a storm warning or
weather advisory is in effect for the Midvale, Utah area or when snow is on the City's right-of-way;

9. Educate all riders by means of signage and through a mobile or web application regarding the laws
applicable to riding, operating, and parking shared e-Scooters, found in Chapter 10.06;

10. Include language in licensee's end user agreement indicating that its riders are responsible to comply
with the operating and parking regulations in this chapter and all applicable state and City laws;

11. Require riders to take a photo of the parked shared e-Scooter with the unique identification number |
readily visible and submit the photo to licensee when the riders park their shared e-Scooter at the end
of the ride;

12. Collaborate with City to address areas where e-Scooters are observed to routinely either be in violation
of this Chapter or where the use of e-Scooters for other reasons shows the need for additional
operational changes;

13. Repair, replace or otherwise restore any part of City's real or personal property that is damaged, lost or
destroyed arising out of, resulting from, caused by, or related to licensee's or its customers’ use of City
property; and

14. Remove and prevent the use of all licensee’s shared e-Scooters from City’s right-of-way upon
suspension, revocation, or expiration of its business license.

H. Required Equipment.
In addition to the equipment required in Section 10.06.020, all shared e-Scooters must:

1. Comply with the most recent applicable safety standards established by federal, state, or City law;

2. Be consistent with current industry standards for dockless e-scooters. Licensee shall comply with an e-
Scooter standard or regulation enacted or adopted by the State of Utah or federal agency;

3. Be equipped with global positioning satellite ("GPS") systems and geofencing technology to prevent
their use outside the permitted operating hours and to be remotely rendered inoperable if reported as
damaged, defective, or otherwise unsafe;

4. Have a unique identification number prominently displayed and readily visible to riders, City
employees and any member of the public;

5. Prominently display readily visible contact information, including toll-free phone number and e-mail
address; and

6. Not display any third-party advertising.

I. Deployment and Placement Regulations.

1. All shared e-Scooters must comply with the parking regulations in Section 10.06.040.

2. Licensee must conduct its daily deployment of e-Scooters in locations that have been pre-approved by
the City.

3. To the extent licensee desires to deploy or have its riders park shared e-Scooters in areas other than the
City right-of-way, licensee must first obtain the right to do so from the appropriate City department,
other public agency, or property owner, and must communicate this permission to riders through
signage or other notification approved by the respective department and/or through a mobile or web
application.

if Data Sharing.

1. Atleast monthly, licensee must provide the City with accurate and complete fleet and ride activity
data, in an anonymized fashion, for completed trips starting and/or ending within City on a shared e-
Scooter owned by licensee or of any person or company controlled by, controlling, or under common
control with licensee. Such trip data shall include, but not be limited to, origin and destination, distance
traveled per use, path traveled, operating speed, and daily initial deployment locations. To ensure
individual privacy:

I. The trip data shall be provided via an application programming interface, subject to licensee's
license agreement for such interface, in compliance with a national data format specification;

II. The trip data provided is treated as trade secret and proprietary business information, provided
licensee makes a written request therefor as required by Utah's Government Records Access and
Management Act under Utah Code Ann. § 63G-2-305(2), and may not be disclosed to third parties
without licensee's consent, and may not be treated as owned by City to the extent allowed by Utah
law; and

Ill. The trip data is be considered private information, and, pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 41-6a-
1115.1, may not be disclosed under Utah's Government Records Access and Management Act
pursuant to a public records request received by City without prior aggregation or obfuscation to
protect individual privacy.

2. At its sole expense, licensee may take any lawful actions to prevent disclosure of the information
shared with city.

3. Licensee must keep true, accurate and complete records showing all trip activity and data within City.

K. Fleet Size.
|

Licensee shall begin operations with a fleet size of not more than 150 shared e-Scooters. Licensee may increase its
fleet size if it can demonstrate to City's satisfaction an upward trend in rides per day. Licensee may not increase its
fleet size without City’s prior written permission. City may require licensee to reduce its fleet size if its fleet
provides on average less than one rider per shared e-Scooter per day.
5.38.030 Enforcement.
A. City may, with or without notice, inspect any shared e-Scooter operating under this chapter to ensure
compliance with scooter-share operator's license, this chapter and other applicable laws.
B. City may require licensee to remove licensee’s shared e-Scooters temporarily for the purpose of:
1. Street maintenance;
2. Avoiding construction conflicts; and
3. Avoiding conflicts with special events.
Cc. Unlawfully parked, inoperable, damaged, or abandoned e-Scooters, if not relocated, re-parked, or removed
as required in this Chapter or has been parked in one location for more than 72 hours without moving, are declared a
nuisance and may be immediately impounded by the City and stored in a City facility at the expense of the scooter-
share operator and/or owner. The City will assess a relocation and storage fee, as established by the City fee
schedule, for each e-Scooter the City relocates and stores pursuant to this Section. The fee is intended to cover the
City's labor and storage costs. A person may only retrieve an impounded e-Scooter upon demonstrating proper proof
of ownership of the device and payment of applicable impound fees.
Dz. If an impounded e-Scooter is not retrieved within 30 days, the City may dispose of the e-Scooter. If the
owner of an e-Scooter is known, the City will provide notice to the e-Scooter owner of its intent to dispose of the e-
Scooter. If the City cannot determine the owner of an e-Scooter or the owner does not retrieve the e-Scooter within
14 days of the date of the notice, the City may dispose of the e-Scooter in accordance with Section 3.03.040. Any
proceeds received by the City from the disposal of an e-Scooter will be credited against any outstanding fees for the
e-Scooter. The owner of an e-Scooter is still liable for any outstanding fees despite the e-Scooter being disposed.
E. If a scooter-share operator fails to repair, replace or restore City property as required by this Chapter, the
scooter-share operator must pay promptly City's costs in making such repairs, replacements or restorations within 30
days upon receiving written notice of the costs.
F. City shall have the right at reasonable times to view a scooter-share operator's data as it relates to the
number of trips taken within City's limits. If City's audit reveals a deficiency in any payment of fees due from the
scooter-share operator based on the number of trips taken, then the deficiency will become immediately due and
payable.
G. All amounts due or that become due under this Chapter shall be considered delinquent 15 days after the due
date and shall be assessed a late fee in the amount of 25 percent per year from the date of delinquency.
H, Any violation of this Chapter is a class B misdemeanor. If applicable, each day of noncompliance
constitutes a separate violation.
|
|
|

Attachment B

Chapter 10.06

E-SCOOTERS
Sections:
10.06.010 Definitions
10.06.020 Required equipment.
10.06.030 Rules of operation.
10.06.040 Rules of parking.
10.06.050 Enforcement.
10.06.010 Definitions.
For purposes of this Chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their derivatives shall have the meanings set
forth in this section:
A. “Handheld wireless communication device” is defined in Utah Code Annotated § 41-6a-1716(1), as
amended.
B. “Motor assisted scooter” or “e-Scooter” is defined in Utah Code Annotated § 41-6a-102(39), as amended.
C. “Park” or “parking” means the process or result of stopping, standing, leaving unattended, or abandoning
any e-Scooter.
D. “Public right-of-way” or “right-of-way” means any public alley, parkway, public transportation path,
roadway, street, sidewalk, or trail owned, granted by easement, operated, or controlled by the City.
10.06.020 Required equipment.
e-Scooters may not be operated at nighttime unless equipped with:
A. A forward-facing lamp that emits a white light visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the front.
B. A rear facing red lamp that emits flashing or non-flashing light visible from a distance 500 feet to the rear.
G Reflective material of sufficient size and reflectivity to be visible or a lamp that emits light visible from
both sides from a distance of at least 500 feet.
D. All e-Scooters shall be equipped with a working bell, horn, or other sound mechanism, but not with a siren
or whistle.
10.06.030 Rules of Operation.
A. An e-Scooter must be operated in accordance all state, county, and local traffic laws. Under state law, an e-
Scooter must follow all bicycle laws. In the event of any conflict between state law and the provisions of this
Chapter, state law will control.
B. e-Scooters are to be operated in bikeways, bike lanes, or multi-use trails, where available.
C. If a bikeway, bike lane, or multi-use trail is not available, an e-Scooter may be operated on a sidewalk or
within the shoulder of any street outside the striped travel lane, if available.

D. If a bikeway, bike lane, multi-use trail, sidewalk, or shoulder of any street outside the striped travel lane is
not available, an e-Scooter may be operated on a street, but riders must stay to the right of vehicular travel lanes.
E. e-Scooters may not be operated in vehicular travel lanes on streets with a speed limit greater than 35 miles
per hour.
F; In a bikeway, bike lane, or multi-use trails, an e-Scooters must yield the right-of-way to a bicycle.
G. An e-Scooters must yield to a pedestrian under all circumstances.
Hi. An e-Scooters may be operated in accordance with rules applicable to a pedestrian when crossing through
crosswalks.
I. Helmets are strongly recommended for all riders.
Ji A rider must ride an e-Scooter responsibly and safely by keeping a reasonable and proper lookout for other
traffic, persons, or objects.
K. An owner of an e-Scooter may not authorize or knowingly permit a person under the age of 8 to operate an
e-Scooter.
Li. An e-Scooter rider must obey all traffic-control devices.
M. While operating an e-Scooter, a rider is prohibited ftom using a handheld wireless communication device
or carrying any package, bundle, or article which prevents the use of both hands in the control and operation of the
e-Scooter.
N. e-Scooters may not be operated on private property without the permission of the owner of the property.
O. A person may not operate an e-Scooter while consuming an alcoholic beverage or while under the
influence of alcohol or any drug to a degree that renders the operator incapable of safely operating a motor vehicle
within the City as set forth in Utah Code Ann. § 41-6a-502. |
10.06.040 Rules of Parking.
Any e-Scooter that is not in use shall be secured to a permitted dock rack or corral or otherwise placed as required
below:
A. An e-Scooter must be parked upright on a hard surface.
B. An e-Scooter may not, at any time, be placed or left in such a way as to impede the normal operation or the
free flow of pedestrian and vehicular traffic, including in the following areas:

1. Any multi-use path;

2. Any vehicle travel lane, bikeway, or bike lane;

3. Any vehicle parking space;

4. Any UTA TRAX or other public transit boarding platform;

5. Anywhere that impedes safe access to or egress from a UTA bus;

6. Within 15 feet of any building access or a including driveways;

7. Within ten feet of any Utah Transit Authority bus stop sign;

8. Within 30 feet of any ADA ramp or access of any kind;

9. Anywhere that impedes the use of an existing permitted docking station or corral for e-Scooters or

other mobility devices;
10. Within 15 feet of any traffic signal pole;
11. Within 20 feet of any existing dock, rack or corral used exclusively for dock-based shared mobility
devices;

12. Within landscape, planting or gardening beds;

13. On private property without permission of the owner of the property; or

14. Within any other zone/spot where the City has determined parking is prohibited.
Cc. An e-Scooter may be parked on blocks without sidewalks only if the paved shoulder is at least five
feet wide, the e-Scooter is not parked adjacent to a red-painted curb, and the e-Scooter does not impede
pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
10.06.050 Enforcement.
A. A person who violates the provisions of this chapter is guilty of an infraction and subject to the
same fine as a bicycle violation under the State of Utah Uniform Fine Schedule, as amended.
B. e-Scooters placed or otherwise left in violation of the requirements of Section 10.06.040 may be
relocated or impounded at the owner's expense. The owner shall be assessed a relocation and storage fee as
specified in Subsection 5.38.030(C).

|

Attachment C
12.08.060 Vehicles or animals to use established crossings.
| Unless authorized by and subject to the regulations of Title 10, Hit is unlawful for any person to drive or park a
self-propelled vehicle or lead, drive, or ride any animal upon any sidewalk except across a sidewalk at established
crossings.
