MIDVALE CITY
ORDINANCE NO. 2021-O0-06
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING MIDVALE MUNICIPAL CODE SECTION 8.08.080
DISPOSAL OF COMMUNITY REFUSE, BULKY WASTE, AND RECYCLABLE ITEMS
TO ALLOW RECYCLING COLLECTION SERVICES BY AUTHORIZED QUALIFIED
ENTITIES.

WHEREAS, as authorized by Utah Code Ann. § 10-8-84, the City Council is
authorized to pass all ordinances and rules, and make all regulations, not repugnant to
law, [...] as are necessary and proper to provide for the safety and preserve the health,
and promote the prosperity, improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, and
convenience of the city and its inhabitants, and for the protection of property in the city;”
and

WHEREAS, the City Council has adopted Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 8.08
to govern the disposal and collection of solid waste within the City to preserve the health
of the City; and

WHEREAS, Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 8.08 prohibits any person or entity
from moving, hauling, or transporting waste Midvale other than the City, its agent, or
authorized persons; and

WHEREAS, Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 8.08 does not currently provide
authorization for any person or entity to provide recycling collection services directly to
residents without being an agent for the City; and

WHEREAS, Momentum Recycling has proposed deploying a curbside glass
recycling program to directly to Midvale’s residents on a subscription basis without
becoming the City’s agent; and

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that the allowance of additional recycling
collection services by authorized qualified entities that are not the City’s agent will
preserve the health of the City, promote the reduction of solid waste being disposed of at
landfills, reduce the City’s tipping fees, and provide an opportunity for City residents to
participate in recycling collection services; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to amend Midvale Municipal Code Chapter
8.08 to establish regulations to authorize qualified entities to provide recycling collection
services to Midvale residents and businesses in a safe manner that complies with federal,
state, and City stormwater and solid waste regulations and does not interfere with the
City’s existing solid waste and recycling services.

Now, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah
as follows:

Section 1. The City Council desires to amend Midvale Municipal Code
Section 8.08.080 Disposal of Community Refuse, Bulky Waste, and Recyclable Items as
set forth in Exhibit A.

Section 2. This ordinance shall be effective immediately.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 16" day of March, 2021.

MIDVALE CITY
Mayor Robert M. Hale
aX STATS
[SEAL] a On VOTING:
X £ cORPORATED “2
a es Ek Bryant Brown Yea_e Nay
ef, pury 1,19 ty Dustin Gettel Yea_— Nay |
ty Paul Glover Yea_v--_ Nay
Orne <¢ & Heidi Robinson Yea_e Nay
ala Quinn Sperry Yea_v~ Nay
AT :
i L. Andreason, Ay
City Recorder
Published this 28“ day of (ggey2021.

8.08.080 Disposal of community refuse, bulky waste and recyclable items.

A. |Community refuse may be disposed of by residents and business establishments in vehicles provided by them
subject to regulation by the governing body as to the place of disposal and as to the type of vehicle used to avoid
spillage upon the public ways of the municipality, hazards to safety and the prevention of nuisances.

B. The governing body from time to time may provide for the collection and disposal of such types of
community refuse as it may decide to collect and haul in connection with its regular solid waste collection and
disposal service. In the event community refuse disposal service should require a charge to be made by the
municipality, the determination of the fee will be made by the approval of the city council.

C. — The governing body from time to time may implement recycling programs to be offered by the city or its
agent to promote waste reduction to the landfill. The rates for recycling collection and processing shall be
established and adjusted by resolution enacted by the governing body.

D. The governing body, at is sole discretion, may authorize a qualified entity to provide recycling collection
services in the city. Such authorization is not exclusive and is subject to the following requirements:

1. An entity must submit an application to the Public Works Department and provide supporting
documentation for the following information:

I. Entity’s authorized representative’s name and contract information;
Il. The registered name of the entity;
Ill. An active business license for the entity from a Utah local government;
IV. Specification of the refuse being collected for recycling by the entity;
V. A detailed plan for how the entity will collect the specified refuse within the city. The plan must
detail the following items:
a. Collection dates and times;
b. Collection bin specifications; and
c. Collection vehicle specifications;
VI. Current commercial liability, automobile liability, and workers’ compensation insurance policies
for the entity with a minimum coverage amount specified by the Public Works Director;
VII. Written authorization for the entity to provide the recycling collection service for the specified
refuse from the city or its agent currently collecting residential solid waste;
VII. Written authorization for the entity from the destination facility processing and recycling the
specified refuse; and
IX. Any other information specified on the application.

2. An entity that receives authorization from the City Council to provide recycling collection services
must enter an agreement with the city that contractually obligates the entity to follow the requirements
of this section. The term of the agreement and the Council’s authorization may not exceed 5 years.

3. An entity authorized to provide recycling collection services within the city must adhere to the
following requirements:

I. Specified Refuse. The entity is only authorized to collect specified refuse approved by the City
Council. If the entity seeks to change the type of refuse or collect additional refuse beyond the

specified refuse that was approved by the City Council, the entity must submit a new application
and receive authorization by the City Council.

II. Collection bins. Each collection bin must be made of a weather-proof material and be constructed
to carry refuse without cracking or leaking. Each collection bin must clearly identify the entity and
have an attached tight-fitting lid. Any collection bin that does not meet these specifications must
be replaced within 15 days of the entity becoming aware of the collection bin’s deficiency.

Ill. Collection vehicles. Each collection vehicle must be properly maintained, meet all State and local
requirements, and be equipped with operable safety equipment. Each collection vehicle must
contain collected refuse to prevent leaking, spilling, or blowing. Each collection vehicle must have
the name of the entity and a vehicle identification number clearly visible on each side of the
vehicle.

IV. Nondiscrimination of customers. The entity must provide recycling collection services to any
residential unit whose owner or inhabitant requests recycling collection service and is willing to
enter in the entity’s standard service contract.

VY. Noninterference with solid waste collection. The entity’s recycling collection services may not
interfere with the city or its agent’s collection of residential solid waste.

VI. Cleanup of specified refuse. The entity is responsible for cleaning up any specified refuse or
tipped collection bins at any location in which the entity is responsible for recycling collection
services.

VII. Hazardous Waste. The entity is prohibited from collecting or transporting any hazardous waste in
or through the city without the prior, written consent of the city. The entity must take all
reasonable and industry-standard precautions to ensure the safe collection and transportation of the
hazardous waste.

VIII. Insurance. The entity is required to add the city as an additional insured for the commercial
liability and automobile liability insurance policies required under 8.08.080(D)(1)(VI). Prior to
providing recycling collection services and upon request of the city, the entity will provide the city
a certificate of insurance that meets the requirements of this subsection.

IX. Compliance with laws. The entity and its employees, agents, and contractors are required to
comply with all local, state, and federal laws.

4. The city may make reasonable inspections to verify the entity’s compliance with this section.

5. The city may review, suspend, or revoke an entity’s authorization to provide recycling collection
services if:
I. The entity no longer meets the requirements for an authorized qualified entity under this section;

ll. The entity provided false or incomplete information on its application;

Ill. The entity has failed to keep information collected on the entity’s application current with the city;

IV. The entity violates its agreement with the city;

V. The entity violates any provision of this section;

VI. The entity violates any federal, state, or local law;

VII. The entity refuses to allow the city to make an inspection or interferes with the city while
conducting an inspection;

Vl. An entity employee, agent, or contractor violates any provision of this section; or
IX. An entity employee, agent, or contractor violates any federal, state, or local law while acting as the
entity’s employee, agent, or contractor.
6. Upon termination of an entity’s authorization to provide recycling collection services, an entity must
remove all collection bins within 30 days.
7. Any authorized entity under this subsection is not an agent or contractor for the city and has no legal
relationship with the city.
8. Nothing in this subsection may be interpreted to prohibit the City or its agent from collecting specified
refuse.
(Ord. 12/03/02(B) (part), 2002: Ord. 8/27/2002B (part), 2002)
