]
MIDVALE CITY
ORDINANCE NO. 2021-O-12
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING MIDVALE MUNICIPAL CODE SECTION 12.02
SPECIAL EVENTS.

WHEREAS, as authorized by Utah Code Ann. § 10-8-84, the City Council is
authorized to “pass all ordinances and rules, and make all regulations, not repugnant to
law, [...] as are necessary and proper to provide for the safety and preserve the health,
and promote the prosperity, improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, and
convenience of the city and its inhabitants, and for the protection of property in the city;”
and

WHEREAS, Midvale Municipal Code currently does not govern special events that
occur on City sidewalks, streets, and property; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations governing the time, place, and manner of holding special events on City
sidewalks, streets, and property; and

WHEREAS, the regulations in this chapter are designed to balance the public's
First Amendment right to exercise free expression on City sidewalks, streets, and
property with the public's right to safety and convenient use of such property; and

WHEREAS, Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 12.02 imposes regulatory, permit
requirements on certain activities that are held on City sidewalks, streets, and property
and that are defined as "special events;” and

WHEREAS, the proposed requirements shall be applied in a content neutral
manner and without discrimination as to race, religion, sex, national origin, political
affiliation, or other unlawful discriminatory classification; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to adopt Midvale Municipal Code Chapter
12.02 to establish regulations that govern special events that occur on City sidewalks,
streets, and property.

Now, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah
as follows:

Section 1. The City Council desires to amend Midvale Municipal Code
Section 12.02 Special Events as set forth in Exhibit A.

| Se  ———
Section 2. A violation of this ordinance includes the possibility of
imprisonment. As such, Midvale City is required, under Utah Code Ann. § 78B-22-301,
to provide for indigent legal defense, as that term is defined in Utah Code Ann. § 78B-22-
102.
Section 3. This ordinance shall be effective immediately.
PASSED AND APPROVED this 20" day of April, 2021.
MIDVALE CITY
Mayor Robert M. Hale
TING:
[SEAL] GN STATS VOTING
OV SSI SO
wif * Bryant Brown Yea_ Nay
= f sCORPORATED > Dustin Gettel Yea _»~— Nay
7. Paul Glover Yea_.-~ Nay
 \ ULY 1, ! Heidi Robinson Yea_~ Nay
£0, OY Quinn Sperry Yea_u Nay___
PorRATE
ATTEST:
6 L. Andreason, 1d
City Recorder
Published thiscop )_ day of AML. 2021.

Chapter 12.02

SPECIAL EVENTS
Sections:
12.02.010 Purpose.
12.02.020 Application of provisions.
12.02.030 Definitions.
12.02.040 Permit required.
12.02.050 Exemption from permit requirement.
12.02.060 Permit application procedures.
12.02.070 Permit application processing.
12.02.080 Fees.
12.02.090 Permit approval and issuance.
12.02.100 Liability insurance required.
12.02.110 Appeal procedures.
12.02.120 Waiver of requirements.
12.02.130 — City liability.
12.02.140 Penalty.
12.02.150 Policies and procedures.
12.02.010 Purpose.
The purpose and intent of this chapter is to establish reasonable and uniform regulations governing the time, place,
and manner of holding special events on City sidewalks, streets, and property. The permit requirement and other
regulations in this chapter are designed to balance the public's First Amendment right to exercise free expression on
City sidewalks, streets, and property with the public's right to safety and convenient use of such property.
12.02.020 Application of provisions.
This chapter imposes regulatory requirements on certain activities that are held on City sidewalks, streets, and
property and that are defined as "special events". The requirements imposed by this chapter do not alter, supersede
or nullify any requirements contained in other statutes, ordinances, or regulations that may also regulate special
events. These requirements shall be applied in a content neutral manner and without discrimination as to race,
religion, sex, national origin, political affiliation, or other unlawful discriminatory classification.
12.02.030 Definitions.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words shall have the following meanings:
A. “Athletic event” means an organized competitive or recreational event in which a group of people collectively
engage in a sport or form of physical exercise, including, but not limited to, running, jogging, walking, bicycling, or
skating.
B. “Block party” means an outdoor party put on by the residents of a neighborhood that is located on a single block
face, does not block an intersection, and requires temporarily closing down a City street, sidewalk, or property.
C. “Demonstration” means an organized event, not including an athletic event or entertainment event, having as its
primary purpose the exercise of expressive activities, including, but not limited to, speechmaking, picketing,
protesting, marching, demonstrating, or debating public issues.
D. “Entertainment Event” means an organized event having as its primary purpose the entertainment or amusement
of a group of people, including, but not limited to, parades, festivals, carnivals, fairs, concerts, block parties, or
neighborhood gatherings.
E. “Events Application Coordinator” means the person responsible for administering the provisions of this chapter.

F. “Filming event” means the filming of a media broadcast (other than for news purposes), filming of a motion
picture or television broadcast, or still commercial photography, in any case involving more than four human
participants.

G. “Organizer” means the individual or organization responsible for special event arrangements and payment of
support fees.

H. “Public forum” means a City street, sidewalk, or park, or any other City property that the City has opened for
use by the public for free expression in general. Public forum does not include any and all property owned by the
City.

I. “Special event” means any athletic event, entertainment event, filming event, demonstration, or other organized
event, whether held for profit, nonprofit, or charitable purposes that requires the use of a City street, sidewalk, or
property:

1. involves 50 or more human participants;

2. if involving fewer than 50 human participants, involves use of a City street, sidewalk, park, or property in a
way that does not comply with normal or usual traffic, pedestrian, park, or similar regulations or controls;
or

3. the organizer desires to subject the event to the permit and other provisions of this chapter.

J... “Spontaneous event” means a special event that is occasioned by news or affairs coming into public knowledge
fewer than 14 days before the special event.

12.02.040 Permit required.

It is unlawful for any person, corporation, partnership, association, or other entity, public or private:

A. To hold a special event without first obtaining a special event permit and paying the fees as required in this
chapter; or

B. To impede access to, or cause the closure of, any street or sidewalk in association with a special event without
first obtaining a special event permit and paying the fees as required in this chapter. Liability under this chapter shall
apply only to the organizer and shall not extend to participants in a nonpermitted event.

12.02.050 Exemption from permit requirement.

A. A special event permit is not required for the following:

1. Spontaneous events conducted in a manner that does not unduly disrupt or inconvenience the public in the

use of property involved, provided that the organizer of a spontaneous event is encouraged to give as much

advance notice as reasonably possible to permit the City to provide services necessary for the spontaneous
event;

2. Activities lawfully conducted wholly by a governmental entity within the scope of its authority; or

3. Activities that are organized or sponsored by any entity that:

a. has a written contract with the City to rent or lease or use City-owned property; and

b. the event is a permitted activity stated in the contract.
B. Because spontaneous events and activities conducted wholly by a governmental entity are not required to get a
permit, they may not reserve a location for their events unless they get a permit. A governmental entity may reserve
a location if it voluntarily subjects itself to the permit and other provisions of this chapter.

12.02.060 Permit application procedures.
A. Form; Information: All requests for special event oe shall be made on a special event permit application
form prescribed by the City and shall include the following information:
1. Type and description of the special event;
2. Name of the organizer and the organizer's contact person, and such contact person's address and telephone
number;
3. Services requested from the parks, police, fire, public services, and other City departments or divisions;
4. Proposed date of the special event, together with beginning and ending times;
5. Proposed location, including any barricade plan and route map;
6. Estimated numbers of event staff, participants, and spectators;
7. Any admission fee, donation, or other consideration to be charged to or requested from participants;
8. Signature of the applicant;
9. Fora filming event, the number of dates of filming and the number of locations to be used, and a report
regarding discussions with property owners or occupants in the affected neighborhoods. The applicant shall
provide a short, written description of and schedule for the proposed filming to the owners and occupants in the
affected neighborhoods (as defined by boundaries set by the events application coordinator). The applicant shall
talk with owners and occupants of all such property and submit as part of the application a report noting any
owner's or occupant's reaction along with the addresses and phone numbers of all such property owners and
occupants; and
10. If the event is a block party, the applicant must collect and submit with the application form the signed
consent to any street closure from all neighbors whose vehicular access to their property is affected by such
street closure.
B. Obtain From The City: A special event permit application may be obtained from the events application
coordinator.
C. Submission; Time Limit: Applicants shall submit completed applications to the City at least 30 calendar days
before the special event is scheduled to occur, in order to give the City sufficient time to process the application and
to allow timely appeal if the application is denied. Applications submitted fewer than 14 calendar days before the
special event is scheduled to occur shall be denied unless the applicant demonstrates to the community development
director or his/her designee that compliance with the 30-day deadline was impractical or impossible due to the
nature of the event. Any application for a filming event shall be submitted no later than four business days before the
filming event is scheduled to occur.
D. Multiple Jurisdictions: Special events that cross or involve multiple governmental jurisdictions shall be
approved only if the applicant also obtains formal authorization from all relevant governing bodies.
12.02.070 Permit application processing.
A. Approval of Agencies, Departments, And Divisions: Upon receipt of a special event permit application, the
events application coordinator shall circulate copies of the application to the appropriate agencies and City
departments and divisions for the purpose of obtaining their approval or recommendation of denial of a special event
permit.
B. Considerations: In reviewing an application, the City departments and divisions involved shall consider the
following:

1. The impact of the special event on the traffic, noise, parking, security, health, and safety of the public;
2. Appropriate and reasonable requirements for the ee of concerns regarding traffic, noise, parking
congestion, security, health, and safety, and an evaluation of the measures proposed by the organizer to satisfy
those requirements;
3. The demonstrated ability of the organizer to comply with requirements necessary to protect the safety,
health, and welfare of the public;
4. The location and duration of the special event and the City's ability to accommodate the special event with
the necessary resources;
5. Other previously approved special events that could cause scheduling conflicts during the same period or
cause overextension of the City's resources; and
6. The ability of the special event to comply with federal, state, and local law.
C. Additional Requirements Or Conditions: The agencies, departments, or divisions involved in reviewing an
application may recommend additional requirements or conditions necessary to protect the public interest by
ensuring traffic management, noise control, available parking, security of property, or the health and safety of the
public.
D. Additional Permits: Applicants may need to get additional approvals from other governmental entities for a
special event. The City may require evidence of these additional approvals prior to issuing a special events permit.
E. Intentional Misrepresentations: If the applicant intentionally makes a material misrepresentation on an
application for a special event permit, such as a significant understatement of the anticipated number of participants,
the applicant shall be liable to the City for any and all costs incurred by the City as a result of the misrepresentation
and the applicant shall not be allowed to receive another special event permit from the City unless otherwise
determined by the community development director. The City reserves the right to pursue other legal remedies
against the applicant as a result of the misrepresentation.
12.02.080 Fees.
A. Fee: Each initial application for a special event permit shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee as stated in
the City's consolidated fee schedule to defray the administrative costs of processing the application.
B. City Support Services: City support services shall be provided for special events as determined by the City to
protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public, at cost as stated in the City's policies and procedures, payable by
the organizer.
1. The City shall not issue a special event permit until the organizer pays the estimated support costs as
determined by the City based on the application and past experience with similar events.
2. City support costs include, but are not limited to, police (but only for traffic control and cleanup), fire, and
emergency medical protection, park maintenance, power, water, road closures, cleanup of City property before,
during, or after the special event, and other costs to the City directly attributable to the special event.
3. City support services shall be limited to the minimum necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare of
the public and the public's use of City property. Police protection needs shall be determined and assigned by the
chief of police or designee after considering relevant criteria such as the size, location, duration, time, and date
of the special event; the number of streets and intersections blocked; and the need to detour or preempt public
travel and use of streets or sidewalks. Park maintenance as well as the closure of roads and streets shall be
administered by the appropriate City departments or divisions.

4. The City shall bill, and the organizer shall pay, the remaining support costs within 30 days after the date of
invoice. Any refund due to the organizer shall be paid by the City within 30 days after the special event if actual
costs are less than the estimate.
C. Police, Fire, And Traffic Crowd Control: The organizer shall provide police and fire protection and traffic
crowd control to the extent determined by the police chief, the fire chief, or their designees, and shall pay the fees
therefor as stated in the City's consolidated fee schedule.
D. Rental Fees: The use of a City property for any special event, or portion of a special event, shall be subject to
charges for rental fees required for the City property as stated in the City's consolidated fee schedule.
E. Exempt From Fees: Demonstrations and block parties shall be exempt from the fees set forth in subsections B,
C, and D of this section, except for any fees imposed by government entities other than the City.
12.02.090 Permit approval and issuance.
A. Approval; Issuance: A completed special event permit pe teation shall be approved and a special event permit
shall be issued to the applicant by the events application coordinator upon approval by all affected departments and
divisions in accordance with the provisions of and in compliance with the requirements of this chapter. The events
application coordinator shall notify all affected departments and divisions of all special event permits issued
pursuant to this chapter.
B. Reasons For Denial Specified: If a special event permit application is denied by the City, the events application
coordinator shall notify the applicant in writing of the reason or reasons for the denial.
C. Grounds For Denial: The events application coordinator may deny a permit application for a special event if:
1. The proposed special event violates a law, ordinance, policy, procedure, or regulation related to the time,
place, or manner of the proposed special event.
2. The proposed special event is not consistent with the intended nature and use of the requested City property
unless the applicant demonstrates that there is no alternative forum by which the applicant may reach the
intended audience with the same intended message.
3. The proposed special event is scheduled at a place and time that will disrupt or interfere with an already
approved special event.
4. The proposed special event does not provide for adequate adult supervision for minors scheduled to
participate.
5. The proposed location or facility is not adequate to accommodate the proposed special event, or the nature
of the proposed special event is such that the City does not have sufficient resources available to ensure the
health, safety, and welfare of special event participants or the general public.
6. The permit application contains a material falsehood or misrepresentation.
7. The applicant is legally incompetent to contract, or to sue and be sued.
8. The applicant has failed to pay a debt to the City for costs incurred during a prior special event.
9. The proposed special event poses a significant danger or threat to the public health, welfare, or safety, or
may result in unreasonable inconvenience or cost to the public.
10. Applicant has had a special events permit revoked within the last twelve months.
D. Conditional Issuance: The events application coordinator may condition the issuance of a special events permit
on the applicant satisfying conditions. For example, the events application coordinator may require that the applicant

provide adequate restroom facilities or security, or post a bond for clean up or other costs. Any conditions imposed
on an applicant should be reasonable and necessary to ensure the health, safety, and welfare of special event
participants and other people.
E. Contents Of Denial: If the events application coordinator denies a permit application for a special event, he or
she shall:
1. Specify in detail the basis for the denial by citing to the law, ordinance, policy, procedure, or regulation
justifying the denial, and describe how the special event is not consistent with the cited provision; and
2. Describe how the burden on free speech, if any, brought about by the denial is necessary to facilitate the
City's interest in protecting the health, safety, or welfare of the public.
F. Alternatives: In denying a permit application, the events application coordinator, in consultation with other
relevant City departments or divisions, may authorize an alternative special event permit at a date, time, location, or
route different from that requested by the applicant. If the applicant desires to accept such alternative permit, it shall
notify the events application coordinator of such acceptance within three days after receiving notice of the
alternative permit, but no later than three days before the scheduled special event.
G. Revocation: The events application coordinator, in consultation with other relevant City departments or
divisions, may revoke any permit upon violation of the an or standards for issuance. The events application
coordinator may also revoke a permit in the event of a declaration of emergency.
H. Dispersal Of Special Event: The chief of police may disperse a special event that is being conducted in a
manner inconsistent with the conditions of the special event permit, or if the event is in violation of any federal,
state, or local law.
I. Conflicting Applications; Priority Evaluation: When more than one application for a special event is received
for the same day and time and for conflicting locations or rontes, the events application coordinator shall issue a
permit, subject to the other provisions of this chapter, based on the following order of priorities:
1. Special events planned, organized or presented by state of Utah, Salt Lake County, federal, or City
governmental entities or their agents if the request is made in good faith and not with the intent or purpose of
improperly chilling constitutionally protected rights of competing applicants;
2. Historic usage special events where the same applicant has been granted use of a particular City forum at a
particular date, time, and place for three or more consecutive years;
3. Ifneither subsection I1 nor [2 of this section are applicable, priority shall be given to a first in time filing.
J. Consideration For Unsuccessful Applicant: After granting the successful applicant's request for the time, place,
manner, and date, the events application coordinator shall authorize the unsuccessful applicant to use an appropriate
public forum at another suitable time, place, date, and manner.
12.02.100 Liability insurance required.
A. Certificate Of Insurance: If required, the City will require the applicant to submit to the events application
coordinator a certificate of insurance, showing the City as an additional insured, on an occurrence policy issued by
an insurance company authorized to do business in the state of Utah, showing commercial general liability and
property damage coverage for the event in the amount stated in the City’s policies and procedures.
12.02.110 Appeal procedures.
Any applicant desiring to appeal an administrative decision of the City concerning the denial of a special event
permit or the imposition of any condition on the issuance of a permit may request a hearing with a hearing officer.
All appeals shall be in writing, provide the name, address, and phone number of the applicant, indicate the intent to
be represented by legal counsel, and shall state the specific grounds for the appeal including the specific provisions
of the law that are alleged to be violated, and shall be filed with the events application coordinator within ten

eee
calendar days after the date the applicant received notice of the denial or condition. After reviewing the denial or the
imposition of the condition, and after reviewing the petition Reeds the denial or the imposition of a condition,
the hearing officer will issue a written decision and notify the applicant and the events application coordinator of the
decision. An applicant aggrieved by the decision of the hearing officer may appeal the decision the hearing officer to
the Third District Court of Salt Lake County under the same process and requirements as an appeal under Section
7.02.100. Failure to appeal any of the decisions as provided constitutes a waiver to such hearing and a waiver of the
right to appeal.
12.02.120 Waiver of requirements.
The events application coordinator shall waive any requirements for application fees or bonds for a demonstration if
the requirement would be so financially burdensome that it hen preclude the applicant from using City property
for the proposed demonstration. Application for a waiver of a fee or bond shall be made on a form prescribed by the
City and must include an affidavit by the applicant stating that the requirement(s) would be so financially
burdensome that it would preclude the applicant from using City property for the proposed demonstration. If no
written denial is issued within ten days after the date on which the application for waiver is fully completed,
executed and filed with the events application coordinator, the waiver request shall be deemed approved, contingent
upon the applicant complying with all other permit requirements. Denials of requests for such waivers shall be
subject to the appeal procedures contained in section 12.02.110 of this chapter.
12.02.130 City liability.
By issuing a special event permit, the City makes no guarantees and assumes no liability for the safety of
participants in or spectators of a special event. City does not waive immunity under Utah Code Title 63G, Chapter ds
Governmental Immunity Act of Utah, as amended.
12.02.140 Penalty.
A violation of this chapter shall be a class B misdemeanor. Failure to obtain a special event permit as required by
this chapter may also result in enforcement action by the City which, in its discretion, may stop an event that has not
been issued a special event permit and may issue citations where event staff or participants violate other state
statutes or City ordinances, including, but not limited to, traffic rules and regulations, disturbing the peace, public
nuisance, failure to disperse, trespass, or other health and safety regulations.
12.02.150 Policies and Procedures.
The City may adopt policies and procedures with respect to the implementation of this chapter.
