                                   Exhihit A        Ordinance



                                 ()RDINANCE NO. 2022-()-15

              AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER I7.7.I I ENTITLED MAIN
              STREET FORM-BASED CODE (MS-FBC) OF THE MIDVALE CITY
                               MI.INICIPAL CODE.

        WHf,REAS, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated Sections l0-8-84 and l0-9a-501 through
l0-9a-503, Midvale City C'the City") has authority 1o make and amend any regulation of or
within zoning districts or any other provision ofthe land use ordinance to promote the prosperity.
improve the morals. peace and good order. comfort. convenience. and aesthetics of the
municipality; and

        WHEREAS, on January 2,2002, the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance, Title l7 ofthe
Midvale City Municipal Code (the "Code"), became effective and is subject to amendments from
time to time pursuant to Section l7-3-l the Code; and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Section l7-l-l of the Code. the City desires to promote
coordinated development. redevelopment, effective use of land, and site planning; protect and
promote public safety, health. and general welfare by providing adequate light and air" water and
sewage control. police, fire. and wetlands protection; and secure economy in govemmental
expenditures; and

       WHEREAS, the C ity desires to amend Sections I 7-7- l | . I 0(Ax2)(0(iii) to address neon
signs and I 7-7- I I .8(FX2 ) to amend landscaping applicability in the Main Street Form-Based
Code (MS-FBC) area: and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on September 14.2022, to
review the request for a text amendment and, after considering allthe inlormation received.
made a recommendation to approve the text amendmcnt request to the City Council; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City. Utah held a public hearing on October 4.
2022. and

       WHEREAS, after taking into consideration citizen testimony. planning analysis. and the
Planning Commission's recommendation as pan of its deliberations. the City Council finds it is
appropriate and within the best interest ofthe City to amend the Code.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, LJtah
as follows:

       Section l. The fbllowing sections of the Midvale City Municipal Code are hereby
amended as included in the below attachment:

            .    Attachment A: Sections I 7-7-l l.l0(AX2)(f)(iii) and | 7-7-l 1.8(FX2).

        Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect upon the date offirst publication.

        PASSED AND APPROVED this 4th day of October, 2022.


                                              ,lbD,vb--.--
                                              Marffi(4ayor

ATTEST:                                        Voting by City Council          "Aye"      "Nay"
                                               Quinn Sperry                      t
                                               Paul Glover
                                               Heidi Robinson
Ro iAndrea sot'l,    M('                       Bryant Brown
City Recorder                                  Dustin Gettel
                            ./1
Date of first   pubtication:uL53D))
                                                              Y ST4 r4:'

                                                                           c
                                                       _o                  ,
                                                       ,     Jlrw r, lrd   t
                                                        t
                                                             F6 R
                                          Attachment A:

Scction I 7-7- I l. I 0(A)(2)(l)(iii)

iii. Gas-discharge tube signage. commonly known as "neon signs," is not permitted. unless such
neon element is used to ( l) reproduce a historic sign that used to exist in the location along Main
Street even if the historic building has been removed, or (2) replace an existing sign that is
located on an existing historic slructure along Main Street. or (3) create a new sign that is located
on an existing historic structure along Main Street.

Section l7-7- I 1.8(FX2)

2. Applicability. All surface parking lots with fourteen ormore parking spaces shall provide
landscaping in accordance with the provisions of this section. with the exception ofthose areas
within the surface parking lot that have a building or roofoverhang that renders landscaping
impracticable . Regulations for the parking lot interior landscape area type are defined in Table
8.07 and Figure 8.02.
