                                             MIDVALE CITY. TiTAH

                                           RESOLtTTt()N NO. 2022-R-08

              A RESOLUTION AUTHORTZING THE MAYOR TO ENTER
           INTO AN INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT WITH SANDY CITY FOI{
       THE MILL AND OVERLAY OF UNION PARK AVENUE/I3OO EAST PROJECT

        WHEREAS, Midvale City has a vested interest in maintaining thc road network and has an
active pavement managemenl program; and

       WHEREAS, the city wishes to participate with neighboring communities in pavement projects
on roads shared by both communities: and

      WHEREAS, Sandy City is preparing a mill and overlay project lor a portion ol'Union Park
Avenue/1300 East. which includes a section that lies within the boundaries of Midvale City: and

       WHEREAS, the estimated cost ol Midvale City's portion of the work will be f'unded though
the City's curr€nt pavement management budget. and Midvale City wishes take advantage of this
opportunity to have some pavement work done; and

        WHEREAS, Sandy City has preparcd an interlocal agreement enabling Midvale City to
participate in their project; and

      NOW THEREFORE Bf, IT R-ESOLVED, thal based on the foregoing. the Midvale City
Council approves this resolution authorizing the mayor to sign the interlocal agreement with Sandy
City.

        APPROVED AND ADOPTED this I 5rh day ol March 2022.



                                                         Marcus Stevenson. Mayor
 ')
 TTESZ                 I
                     I              t/ )                                           Y Sr4 /6.
Roli       re                                                               a.                  04
Cily Recorder                                                           .sT      s$oRfoR.lrED
                                                                                                 c'
                                                                        t                            ,
Voting by the City CoLrncil                  "Aye"       "Nay"          t         ,rty r.lrd9        t
                Dustin Gettel                                                        R   AlE
                Paul Glover
                                             --17
                Quinn Sperry                    L//
                Heidi Robinson               ----]..1-
                Bryant Brown                    t./
                       INTERLOCAI, COOPERATION AGREEMENT
                                            Between
                                         SANDY CITY
                                            And
                                       MIDVALE CITY


THIS INTERLOCAL COOPERA'I'ION AGREE MENT (this "Agreement") is made and
entered into this ltiitt6u, o1                        2022, utith an effective date as provided in
Section I I ofthi s Agreement, by and belween SANDY CITY, a municipal corporation of the
State of Utah ("Sandy"); and Midvale City, a municipal corporation ofthe State ol Utah
("Midvale"). Sandy City and Midvale City are sometimes referred to collectively as the "Parties"
and either may be referred to individually as a "Party", all as govemed by the context in which
such words are used.

                                        \\,ITN ISS ETI I:

WHEREAS, Sandy and Midvale are public agencies as defined in Title I I, Chapter 13, UTAH
CODE ANN. (the "lnterlocal Act"). Section I l-13-202 ofthe Interlocal Act provides that any
two or more public agencies may enter into an agreement with one another forjoint or
cooperative action; and

WHEREAS, in consultation with Midvale, Sandy is advertising an asphalt resurfacing project
on 1300 E between Creek Road and High Point Parkway (the "Project"), most of which is
located in Sandy City, but approximately 16,550 SF ofroadway, adjacent to the SW Comer of
1300 E and Creek Road, is located in Midvale City; and

WHEREAS, it is just and equitable for Midvalc to pay a portion of the cost of the Project
as provided in this Agreement; and


WHERXAS, Sandy and Midvale desire to entcr into an agreement, which sets forth the riglrts,
obligations, and responsibilities ofeach Party respecting the Project.

                                        AGRtrIIMENT:

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises and the mutual covenants and
undertakings, the Parties hereby agree as follou,s:

           Sandv Citv Oblieations.
              a. Sandy shall perform, directly and/or through an independent contractor, and
                 will pay for the construction and completion ofthe Project, including but not
                 limited to: design, bidding, management, and construction ofthe Project.

               b. Sandy shall consult with Midvale in making project decisions within the
                  jurisdictional area of Midvale City.
               c   Sandy shall select the lowest responsive and responsible bidder. Sandy shall
                   thereafter inform Midvale of Sandy's selection and the selected contractor's
                   itemized bid amounts for the Project.

       2. Midvalc Citv Oblisations

               a   Midvale grants Sandy all required permission and access for \ ork to be
                   performed in accordance with all laws, ordinances, rules, and procedures
                   applicable to Midvale's road-cut permining processes.

               b. Midvale agrees to pay the itemized costs based on the submitted bid of the
                   awarded contract.

               c   The Panies agree that Sandy will provide Midvale an invoice for their portion
                   at the time the Project reaches substantial completion and Midvale will pay
                   the required amount within 30 days from receipt of invoice.

        3. Services Performed in a Professional and Reasonable Manner. Sand y shall perform
project management, ifthere is any, in a professional, reasonable, and responsive manner in
compliance with all applicable laws. Subject to the foregoing, the exact nature ofhow the
services were or are to be performed, and any other matters incidental to providing services, shall
remain with Sandy. All construction will comply with applicable law.

       4. Termination.

               a   This Agreement shall bcgin on the Effective Date and shall terminate in
                   twelve months or when all work related to the Project is fully completed and
                   accepted by the Parties, whichever is later. This Agreement is not renewable

               b. Termination. Upon written notice to the other Party, either Parry may
                   terminate this Agreement without penalty at any time prior to award of the
                   professional services contract.

         5.!ig!!!!tr-tg1!-I4g]q!!!g!!q. Sandy and Midvale are govemmental entities
under the Govemmental lmmunity Act of Utah, UTAH CODE ANN. $ 63G-7-l0l et seq. (the
"Act"). Consistent with the terms ofthe Act, and as provided herein, it is mutually agreed that
each Party is responsible and liable for its own wrongful or negligent acts which are committed
by it or by its agents, oflicers, or employees. Neither Party waives any defenses otherwise
available under the Act nor does any Pa(y waive any limits of liability currently provided by the
Ac1.

        6. lnterlocal Coorrera      Act Reouirements. ln satisfaction ofthe re quirements of
the Interlocal Act, and in connection with this Agreement, the Parties agree as follows

               a   This Agreement shall be approved by each Parry pursuant to Section I l-13-
                   202.5 ofthe Interlocal Act;
               b. This Agreement shallbe reviewed as to proper form and compliance with
                  applicable law by a duly authorized attomey on behalf ol'each Party, pursuant
                  to Section I l-13-202.5 ofthe lnterlocal Actr

              c   A duly executed original counterpart ofthis Agreement shall promptly be
                  filed with the keeper of records ofeach Party, pursuant to Section I l-13-209
                  of the Interlocal Act;

              d. Except as otherwise spccifically provided herein, each Party shallbe
                  responsible for its own costs ol'any action taken pursuant to this Agreement,
                  and for any budgeting and financing of such costs; and

              e. No separate legal entity is created by the terms of this Agreement. To the
                  extent that this Agreement requires administration other than as set forth
                  herein, it shall be administered by a joint board consisting of the Mayor of
                   Sandy City and the Mayor of Midvale City, with each member of the joint
                  board to have one vote. No real or personal property shall be acquired jointly
                   by the Parties as a result ofthis Agreement. The portion ofthe Project located
                  lvithin Midvale's corporate boundaries shall be and is the property of Midvale
                   City, and Midvale waives and disclaims any ownership interest in any portion
                  of the Project that is not located within Midvale City. To the extent that a
                   Party acquires, holds or disposes ofany real or personal property for use in the
                  joint or cooperative undertaking contemplated by this Agreement, such Party
                   shall do so in the same manner that it deals with other property ofsuch Party.
                  Nojoint Budget will be established or maintained by the Parties, and Sandy
                   shall solely be responsible for the Project Budget.

        7.NSgSgS. Any notice required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be deemed
sufficient if given by a communication in writing, and shall be deemed to have been received (a)
upon personal delivery or actual receipt thcreof, (b) lvithin three days after such notice is
deposited in the United States mail, postage pre-paid, and certified and addressed as follows, or
(c) upon receipt ofan e-mail notice addressed to the respective Parties as follows:

                      Midvale City: Midvale City Public Works Director
                                   kennedyg@midvale.com
                                   8196 S Main Street
                                     Midvale, Utah 84047

                      Sandy City:    Sandy City Public Works Director
                                     mgladbach@sandy.utah.gov
                                     10000 S. Centennial Parkway
                                     Sandy, UT 84070
                       Copy to:        Sandy City Attorney's Office
                                       dalcom@sandy.utah. gov
                                       10000 Centennial Parkway, Suite 301
                                       Sandy, UT 84070

       8.Qoveglgg@. This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of
Utah both as to interpretation and perlormance.

        9. Rerqlulion oJ Claims and Disputes. [n an y action brought to enforce the terms of
this Agreement, the Parties a$ee that the appropriate venue shall be the Third Judicial District
Court in and for Salt Lake County, Utah.

        l0.@.ThisAgreementcontainstheentireagreement
between the Parties rvith respect to the subject matter hereof, and no statements, promises, or
inducements made by either Party or agents for either Party that are not contained in this written
Agreement shall be binding or valid; and this Agreement may not be enlarged, amended,
modified, or altered except in a writing signed by the Parties which shall be (a) approved by the
governing bodies of Sandy and Midvale, including the adoption of any necessary resolutions or
ordinances by Sandy and Midvale authorizing the execution of any amendment, change,
modification or alteration ofthis Agreement by the appropriate person or persons for Sandy and
Midvale, respectively, (b) executed by a duly authorized official ofeach ofthe Parties, (c)
submitted to an attorney for each Party that is authorized to represent said Party lor review as to
proper form and compliance with applicable law, pursuant to Section I l-13-202.5 ofthe
Interlocal Act, and the execution by each respective attorney, and (d) filed with the keeper ofthe
records ofeach Party.

         I I . @greemg(.           This Agreement shall take effect immediately upon the
completion ofthe following: (a) the approval ofthe Agreement by the adoption ola resolution
by the goveming body ofeach Sandy and Midvale, (b) the execution ofthis Agreement by a duly
authorized official ofeach ofthe Parties, (c) the submission ofthis Agreement to an attorney for
each Party who is authorized to represent said Party for review as to proper lorm and
compliance with applicable law pursuant to Section I l-13-202.5 ofthe Interlocal Act, and the
approval ofeach respective attorney, and (d) the filing ofa copy ofthis Agreement with the
keeper of records of each Party. This Agreement shall terminate tlvelve ( l2) months after the
execution ofthis Agreement as set forth herein, provided that Midvale shall have made payment
in full to Sandy pursuant to Section 2 above; otherwise, this Agreement shall terminate one ( I)
month after Sandy receives payment in full as provided in Section 2 above. Except as otherwise
provided herein, there is no permissible method or methods to be employed to accomplish thc
partial or complete termination of this Agreement.

         12. Severability. Ifany provision hereof shall be held or deemed to be or shall, in fact,
 be inoperative or unenforceable as applied in any particular case in anyjurisdiction or in all
jurisdictions, or in all cases because it conflicts with any other provision or provisions hereof or
 any constitution or statute or rule of public policy, or for any other reason, such circumstances
shall not have the effect of rendering the provision in question inoperative or unenforceable in
any other case or circumstance, or of rendering any other provision or provisions hereirr
contained invalid, inoperative, or unenforceable to any extent whatever. The invalidity of any
onc or more phrases, sentences, clauses, or paragraphs herein contained, shall not affect the
remaining portions hel€of, or any pa( thereof.

       13. No Senarate [,esal Entity. No separate legal entity is created by this Agreement.

       14. Additional Provisions. The following provisions also are integral to this Agreement:

       (a) Titles and Cantions. All section or subsection titles or captions herein are
       for convenience only. Such titles and captions shall not be deemed part ofthis Agreement
       and shall in no way define, limit, augment, extend or describe the scope, content or intent
       of any paft or parts hereof.

       (b) Pronouns and Plurals. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun
       used herein shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine or neuter forms, and the
       singular form of nouns, pronouns and verbs shall include the plurals and vice versa.

       (c) Aoplicable Law. The provisions ofthis Agreement shall be govemed by
       and construed in accordance wilh the laws ofthe state ofUtah.

       (d) Inteqration.This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the
       parties pertaining to the subject matter hereof, and supersedes all prior agreements and
       understandings pertaining thereto.

       (e) Time. Time is the essence hereoL

       (f) Survival. All agreements, covenants, representations, and warranties
       contained herein shall survive the execution ofthis Agreement and shall continue in full
       force and effect throughout the term of this Agreement.

       (g) l{aiver. No failure by either Pany to insist upon the strict performance of
       any covenant, duty, agreement, or condition of this Agreement or to exercise any right or
       remedy consequent upon a breach thereof shall constitute a waiver of any such breach or
       ofsuch or any other covenant, agreement, term, or condition. Any Party may, by notice
       delivered in the manner provided in this Agreement, but shall be under no obligation to,
       waive any of its rights or any conditions to its obligations hereunder, or any duty,
       obligation, or covenant ofany other Party. No waiver shall affect or alter the remainder
       ofthis Agreement, but each and every other covenant, agreement, term, and condition
       hereofshall continue in full force and effect with respect to any other then existing or
       subsequenlly occurring breach.

        (h) Rights and Remedies. The rights and remedies ofthe Parties hereto shall not be
        mutually exclusive, and the exercise ofone or more ofthe provisions ofthis Agreement
        shall not preclude the exercise of any other provision hereof.
(i) Attornev Fees.lfany action, suit, or proceeding is brought by a Party
hereto with respect to a matter or matters covered by this Agreement, all costs and
expenses ofthe prevailing Party incident to such proceeding. including reasonable
attorneys' fees, shall be paid by the non-prevailing Party.

$) Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of
which shall be deemed an original, and all of which together shall constitute one and the
same instrument.

(k) Cumulalive Remedies. The rights and remedies of the Parties hereto shall be construed
cumulatively, and none of such rights and remedies shall be exclusive of, or in lieu or
limitation of, any other right, remedy or priority allowed by law.

(l) No Apencv. Agents, employees, or representatives ofa Pany shall not be deemed to be
agents, employees, or representatives ofthe other Party.
DocuSign Envelope lDr 22EF7D5D-9F66-42S'l-A85C-CA87D6C8A4DC




               lN IVITNESS WHEREOF. Sandy City. by resolution of its Council, caused this Agreerrent to
               be signed and attested by the Mayol of Sandy City, ol her designee; and Midvale City, by
               resolution of its Council, caLrsed this Agreement to be signed by the Mayor. or his designee.


                                                                 SAND             igned by


                                                                 By:     Mmia ZohotnsLl
                                                                                fBBIfitBBEft anski or Designee

                            Signed by

                       [J-"e",
                ity


               Approved as to Form and Legality:
                            DocuSigned by

               By:       O..+^rt, -+L^*r^.
                            tbcmyT@ffinting Sandy City
                                    3/L7 /2022
               Date:




                                                                 MIDVALE CITY

                                                                 By
                                                                        Mayor     arc Ll     tevenson or Designee

                        S

                                                                                    t STA r(.
                                                                                                o4
               Ci      Reco rder                                                                  o
                                                                                 o6orron'wao
                                                                           !                         -
               Approved as                       lity:
                                                                           =
                                                                           *      rurv t. rgd        *
                                                                                       RATE
               By
                            ttorney Rep     nting Midvale City

               Date     41la^nl, tb. zoz,z
                                     ,\
                                          ,,
                                                       a
                                                                                                                                         It
                                           ,*        ) a                                                                                     I
                                                                                                         f
     L I
                                                                                                     I                              t                  tlr   i


                                                                                                                                                 itil
                                      rc  :S               )
                                                                   a

                                                                            Z
                                                                                                         I                                       r lrl


                                                                   t            l*
 /                                                                                                       ]l       Ii
1.
t
                                                                                                                            I
                                                     L'
                        \   I                                                                    'g
                                                                                                              L
\

           l   a
                        t        ,.
                                                                   ll                                I
                                                                                                                       ir
                                                                                                                       gl               1/




                                                                            H
                                                                                                                       ,l
                   '(           -l
                                                                                                 I T
                                                                                                                  il 1,
E
                                                                   !
                                                                       I
                                                               {                     s o'j
                   E
                                                           2 t

     E
                                                                                             c
                                                                                             J


                                                E
                                                                                                                                             t
                                                           I                                 I
                                                                                                 *                                                 U
                                                                   E
                                                3                                                SS
                                                                                                 I L
                                                                                         a
     ,,,                              E                                                      T                f
               a
                   a -,                                                              I
                                                                                     a

                                                               I
                                      L
                                      a                                     t                                                   a
                                                                                                                                t
                                                    :rli                             -
               IE
      I
                            t                       :;Ei                        at
                                                                                                                                    t
                                                                                                                                                       ,|




       \
           a
                                               a-
                                                    E!fi
                                                                       ra       a                                                                  +"  I
-r
