                                        Exhibit A - Ordinance



                                   ORDINANCE NO. 2022-0.I I

          AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER I7-7-I.4 ENTITLED SINGLE
             FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONE (SF.l) OF THE MIDVALE CITY
                             MUNICIPAL CODE.

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated Sections I 0-8-84 and I 0-9a-501 through I 0-
9a-503, Midvale City ("the City") has authority to make and amend any regulation of or within
zoning districts or any other provision ofthe land use ordinance to promote the prosperity, improve
the morals, peace and good order, comfbrt. convenience, and aesthetics ofthe municipality; and

        WHEREAS, on January 2,2002,the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance, Title l7 of the
Midvale City Municipal Code (the "Code"), became effective and is subject to amendments from
time to time pursuant to Section l7-3-l the Code; and

         WHEREAS, pursuant to Section l6-04-010 of the Code, the City desires to promote the
protection ofpublic health, life and safety; protect the character and social and economic stability of
all parts ofthe city; protect and preserve the value of land throughout the municipality; guide public
and private policy and action; establish responsible standards; prevent pollution and degradation of
air, streams, and ponds; preserve the natural beauty and topography; and provide for open spaces
through the most effective design and layout ofthe land;

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Section l7-l -l of the Code, the City desires to promote
coordinated development, redevelopment, effective use ofland, and site planning; protect and
promote public safety, health, and general welfare by providing adequate light and air, water and
sewage control, police, fire and wetlands protection; and secure economy in govemmental
expenditures; and

       WHEREAS, the C ity desires to amend Chapters 17 -7 -l .4 t o address rear setbacks in the
Single Family Residential Zone (SF- l ); and

        WHERf,AS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on April27,2022, to revrew
the request for a text amendment and considered all the information receivedl and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on 5/1712022:
and

       WHEREAS, after taking into consideration citizen testimony, planning analysis, and the
Planning Commission's recommendation as part of its deliberations, the City Council finds it is
appropriate and within the best interest ofthe City to make changes to the Code.

       NOW, THER-EFORL, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Councilof Midvale City, Utah as
follows:


                                                  4
       Section l. The following section of the Midvale City Municipal Code is hereby amended as
included in the below attachment:

            .   Attachment A: Chapter 17-7-1.4.A.3 Single Family Residential Zone (SF-l)

        Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect upon the date offirst publication.

        PASSEDANDAPPROVEDthi..ftauyof                           ff\&rl,zozz.
                              Y ST4 16.
                                           o.\
                                             o       Marcus Steven son, Mayor
                     .rY
                    o                            ,
                    =*       rurv t. rsd         *
ATTEST:                                              Voting by City Council     "Aye"    "Nay"
                                R                    Quinn Sperry                 \./
                                                     Paul Clover                  t/
                                                     Heidi Robinson               ,-/
     Andreason, MM                                   Bryant Brown                 t/
Ci   Recorder                                        Dustin Gettel               t/
                                                                                         -
Date of first publication:   ffWtt4,7at




                                                         5
                                         Attachment A:

Chapter l7-7-1.1.A.3 Single Family Residential Zone (SF-1) is hereby amended to read as follows:

Rear. The minimum rear yard setback is t*en+y-{+e liliccn feet, subject to the following
exceptions:
a. Corner Lot Rule. On comer lots, there is no rear yard.
b. Projection. Sills, cornices, chimneys, flues, eaves and omamental features may project into the
rear yard up to two and one-half feet.
c. Stairs and Landings. Outside stairways and landings required by building code for exterior
doorways may project into the rear yard up to three feet.




                                                 6
