                                 ORDINANCE NO. 2022-0.02

         AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 17-7-IO.I2 JORDAN BLUFFS
        SUBAREAS I.3 DEVELOPMENT OF THE MIDVALE CITY MUNICIPAL
                                CODE.

        WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated Sections 10-8-84 and l0-9a-501 through
 l0-9a-503, Midvale City ("the City") has authority to make and amend any regulation of or
within zoning districts or any other provision ofthe land use ordinance to promote the prosperity,
improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, convenience, and aesthetics of the
municipality; and

        WHEREAS, on January 2,2002, the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance, Title l7 of the
Midvale City Municipal Code (the "Code"), became effective and is subjcct to amendments from
time to time pursuant to Section 17-3- l the Code; and

         WHEREAS, pursuant to Section l6-04-010 of the Code, the City desires to promote the
protection ofpublic health, life and safety; protect the character and social and economic
stability ofall parts of the city; protect and preserve the value ofland throughout the
municipality; guide public and private policy and action; establish responsible standards; prevent
pollution and degradation of air, streams, and ponds; preserve the natural beauty and topography;
and provide for open spaces through the most effect design and layout ofthe land;

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Section l7- 1- I of the Code, the City desires to promote
coordinated development, redevelopment, effective use ofland, and site planning; protect and
promote public safety, health, and general welfare by providing adequate light and air, water and
sewage control, police, fire and wetlands protection; and secure economy in govemmental
expenditures; and

       WHEREAS, the City desires to amend Chapter l7-7- 10.12 to address fencing of solar
anays; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on November 10, 2021, to
review the request for a text amendment and, after considering all the inlormation received,
made a recommendation to approve the text amendment request to the City Council; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on January 4,
2022; and

       WHEREAS, after taking into consideration citizen testimony, planning analysis, and the
Planning Commission's recommendation as part of its deliberations, the City Counci[ finds it is
appropriate and within the best interest ofthe City to make changes to the Code.

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah
as follows:
      Section   l.The following sections of the Midvale City Municipal Code are hereby
amended as included in the following attachments to this document:

          o Attachment A: Amending Chapter 17-7-10.12 Jordan Bluffs Subareas 1-3
                Development

       Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect upon the date of first publication.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 4th day of January 2022.

                                   Y SI4
                             a,
                      :t                         c
                      o                              Marcus Stevenson, Mayor
                                                 !
                         *        ,lzy t, tgo9   *

v7'                                  RAlg
                                                     Voting by City Council
                                                     Quinn Sperry
                                                     Pau'l Glover
                                                                               "Aye"
                                                                                 v"
                                                                                 r.''
                                                                                         "Nay"


                                                     Heidi Robinson              L"
R                    C                               Bryant Brown                l,''
City Recorder                                        Dustin Gettel               L/'

Date of first publicatiory!4-Qy/rD ,
                                  Attachment A:
                                 Chapter 17-7-10.12
                     JORDAN BLUFFS SUBAREA 1-3 DEVELOPMENT

Sections:
t7 -7 -10.t2.1   Purpose.
t7 -7-10.12.2   Development Review Process
t7 -7-10.12.3   Use Table.
t7 -7-10.t2.4 Large Scale Master Planned Development Submittal.
t7 -7-t0.12.5 Development Requirements.
t7 -7-10.12.6 Parking and Access Standards.
t7 -7-10.12.7 Landscaping and Irrigation Standards.
t7-7-10.12.8 Fencing and Screening Standards.
t7 -7-10.12.9   Outdoor Lighting Standards.
t7 -7-10.12.10   Residential Developments.
t7 -7 -10.12.11  Commercial Developments.
l't-7-to.t2.l2 Additional Standards for Specific Uses.
t7 -7-10.12.13   Signage.



17-7-10,12.1 Purpose.

[No changes in this section.]

l7-7 -10,12,2 Development Review Process.

[No changes in this section.]

l7-7-10.12.3 Use Table.

[No changes in this section.]

17 -7   -10.12.4 Large Scale Master Planned Development Submittal,

[No changes in this section.]

17 -7   -10,12.5 Development Requirements.

[No changes in this section.]

17-7-10.12.6 Parking and Access Standards.

[No changes in this section.]
17 -7   -10.12,7 Landscaping and Irrigation Standards.

[No changes in this section.]

17-7-10.12.8 Fencing and Screcning Standards.

All development must comply with the following fencing and screening standards:

A. Fencing. Fencing, ifany, shall be part of the landscape plan, shall be designed and
constructed to be compatible with the project site architecture and character, and shall comply
with the following:

         1   . Fences or walls shall not be located within the landscape setback along a public or
        private right-of-way, within thirty feet of the park depicted in Figure I of this chapter,
        within the open space depicted in Figure I of this chapter, or used to block pedestrian and
        bicycle facilities. Solar enerev svstems. located u ithin an open space area tleprcted in
        Figure I and apprtx'ed as part ()l'a [-arge Scale Master Plan or subsequcnt site plan. rnal he
        cnclosed by non-obscuring. open fence matorials (excluding chain-link)^ not to excced 7' in
        height.

        2. Fences may be used for private recreational amenities provided nonobscuring open
        materials are used; private yard space for individual residential units; along project
        perimeters to separate uses; and to screen trash collection areas, service areas, and
        mechanicaI equipment.

        3. Where allowed, fences and walls shall not exceed seven feet in height and shall be
        limited to four feet in height in a front yard. An exception to this fence height is allowed
        for a fence up to eight feet in height in a side or rear yard, provided the fence is not
        adjacent to a public or private road, to provide a buffer between a residential use and a
        commercial use, or for a warehouse or data center storage use provided the fence is in a
        side or rear yard and is not adjacent to a public or private road.

        4. Athletic Facilities. Fencing around athletic facilities, including, without limitation,
        tennis courts, may be fourteen feet in height provided all portions of the t'ence above seven
        feet in height are constructed with at least fifty percent nonopaque materials and are not
        located within the landscape setback along a public or private right-of-way.

        5. All fencing and screening walls shall be constructed to comply with sight distance and
        clear view requirements at road intersections and driveways.

        6. All fences shall be constructed of quality materials that are specifically manufactured
        for fencing and shall not be constructed with any material that was originally made for
        other intentions. Fencing in a residential area shall not be constructed from any material
        that was manufactured for an agricultural use such as chicken wire, deer fencing, hog wire,
     wire strands, t-stakes $ape stakes, barbed wire or other sharp, pointed, or electrically
     charged material.

     'l   . All fences shall be maintained in a good condition by the property owner including
     compliance with the following standards:

             ll   The fence must be free ofdamage, breaks or missing components or parts.

             b. Areas ofthe fence that are leaning more than twenty degrees from vertical,
             buckling, sagging or deteriorating must be repaired or replaced with materials and
             color similar to its original construction.

             c. AII rnetal style fences shall be treated in a mamer to prevent rust.
             d.  Plant materials growing on fences within sight distance and clear view areas shall
             be maintained at a maximum height of three f'eet.

     8. Conformance with This Section. No person shall construct, alter, or maintain a fence,
     hedge, wall, or any similar structure, any combination ofsuch structures, or any portion of
     such structures except in conformance with all of the requirements of this section.

B. Screening. Trash collection and recycling areas, service areas, loading docks, mechanical
and electrical equipment, and other building operation devices shall be screened on all sides so
that no portion ofsuch areas is visible from public and private roads and adjacent properties.
Solar energy systems are exempt from this screening requirement. Required screening may
include new and existing plantings, walls, fences, screen panels, doors, topographic changes,
buildings, horizontal separation, or any combination thereof.

      1. Screening and retaining walls shall be of materials complementary to the building's
     materials.

     2. All building equipment shall be sited to minimize its visibility and impact, and
     screened and enclosed as to appear to be an integral part of the architectural design ofthe
     building. Measures shall be taken to mitigate noise irnpacts on adjacent properties.

     3. Refuse containers shall be screened from view on all sides. Required screening may
     include new and existing plantings, walls, fences, screen panels, doors, topographic
     changes, buildings, horizontal separation, or any combination thereof. Screening fences,
     walls and/or plantings shall be one foot higher than the object to be screened. An opaque
     gate shall be included where required to complete screening.

     4. Off'-street loading docks and/or service areas shall be located to the side or rear of
     buildings. Where they are directly visible from streets and nearby residential buildings,
     they shall be screened by walls at least eight feet high, or densely and continuously massed
     landscaping that maintains its screening capabilities in the winter. Raised planters, benns
     or other landforms may also be used in conjunction with landscaping or walls. A
        combination of dense, continuous landscaping and walls may allow the use of lower walls,
        but no lower than four feet high from finished grade. (Ord. 2020-09 $ I (Att. Axpart); Ord.
        2019-03 $ I (Att. A) (part))

17-7 -10.12.9 Outdoor Lighting Standards.


[No changes in this section.]

17 -7 -10.12.10   Residential Developments.

[No changes in this section.]

l7 -7   -l0.l2.ll Commercial Developments.
[No changes in this section.]

17-7-10.12.12 Additional Standards for Speci{ic Uses.

[No changes in this section.]

17-7-10.12.13 Signage

[No changes in this section.]
