                                          EXHII}I1'A

                                 ORDINANCE, NO. 2022-0-I 8

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER I7-7-I.I3.B AND TABLE 17-7-1.2
RELATING TO "DUPLEX (DO ZONE ONLY)'', SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
ZONE (SF.I), OF THE MIDVALE CITY MTINICIPAL CODE.

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated Sections 10-8-84 and l0-9a-501 through
l0-9a-503, Midvale City ("the City") has authority to nrake and amend any regulation ofor
within zoning districts or any other provision ofthe [and use ordinance to promote the prosperity,
improve the morals, peace and good order, comfbrt, convenience. and aesthetics ofthe
municipality; and

        WHER-EAS, on January 2,2002, the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance, Title l7 of the
Midvale City Municipal Code (the "Code"), became effective and is subject to amendments liom
time to time pursuant to Section l7-3-l the Code: and

         WHEREAS, pursuant to Section l6-04-010 of the Code, the City desires to promote the
protection ofpublic health, life and safety: protect lhe character and social and economic
stability ofall parts olthe city; protect and preserve the value olland throughout the
municipality; guide public and private policy and action; establish responsible standards; prevenl
pollution and degradation olair. streams, and ponds; preserve the natural beauty and topography;
and provide for open spaces through the mosl ef'fbct design and layout ofthe land;

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 17-l-l of the Code. the City desires to promote
coordinated development, redevelopment, eft'ective use ofland, and site planning; protect and
promote public safety, health. and general welfare by providing adequate light and air, water and
sewage control, police. lire and wetlands protection; and secure economy in govemmental
expenditures; and

       WHEREAS, the City desires to amend Chapter l7-7- 1.13.B and Table 17 -7 -1.2 relating
to "Duplex (DO zone only)"; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on October 12,2022, to
review the request for amendments and, after considering all the information received, made a
recommendation to approve the amendment request to the City Councill and

      WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on November
1,2022t and

       WHEREAS, afler taking into consideration citizen testimony, planning analysis, and the
Planning Commission's recommendation as part olits deliberations, the City Council finds it is
appropriate and within the best interest ofthe City to make changes to the Code.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City. Utah
as fbllows:

       Section l. The following sections of the Midvale City Municipal Code are hereby
       amended as included in the following attachments to this document:

              .   Attachment A: Amending Chapter l7-7-1.13.B. and Table 17-7-1.2 relating to
                  "Duplex (DO zone only)''.

        Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect upon the date of first publication.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this lst day of November, 2022.

                               1Y s14
                              Q\

                        .sY   t€oBlon.lXED
                                             c   M :trc us tevenson, M yor
                       o
                                             3
                       =
                        *      rtzv r, tg$   t
ATTEST:                                          Voting by City Council                   "Nay"
                                   RATg          Quinn Sperry
                                                 Paul Glover
                                                 Heidi Robinson
     Andreason, M       C'                       Bryant Brown
City Recorder                                    Dustin Gettel

Date of Posting : November 3. 2022
                                         Attachment A:


Chapter 17 -7 -l.l3.B is hereby amended to read as follows:

Procedures. Applications for duplexes shall be processed as an alkxrctl eoadi+ional use, under
the criteria listed in Section t7 7 1,9(A) l7--i-1.




Table 17-7-1.2 relating to "Duplex (DO zone only)" is hereby amended to read as follows:

           Tvpe                Allowed   Administrative        Conditional     Business License
 Du plex (DO zone only)    X                               x
