   Midvalc Municipal Code                                                                  Page l/49




                                 ORDINANCE NO. 2022-O-OI

        AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 17-7.9 BINGHAM JUNCTION
        ZONE,17.7-9.12.1 RIVERWALK ZONE, 17-7-9,12.2 THE JUNCTION AT
        MIDVALE ZONE, AND I7-7-9.12.3 SILVER REFINERY ZONE OF THE
                        MIDVALE CITY MUNICIPAL CODE.

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated Sections 10-8-84 and l0-9a-501 through
l0-9a-503, Midvale City ("the City") has authority to make and amend any regulation of or
within zoning districts or any other provision of the land use ordinance to promote the prosperity,
improve the morals, peace and good order. comfort, convenience, and aesthetics ofthe
municipality; and

        WHEREAS, on January 2,2002, the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance, Titte 17 of the
Midvale City Municipal Code (the "Code"), became effective and is subject to amendments from
time to time pursuant to Section l7-3-l the Code; and

       WHER"EAS, pusuant to Section 17-l-l of the Code, the City desires to promote
coordinated development, redevelopment, efl'ective use ofland, and site planning; protect and
promote public safety, health, and general welfare by providing adequate light and air, water and
sewage control, police, fire and wetlands protection; and secure economy in govemmental
expenditures; and

        WHEREAS, the City desires to amend Chapter 17-7-9, Chapter l7-7-9.12.1, Chapter 17-
1-9.12.2, AND Chapter 17-7-9.12.3 to address right-of-way concems with the loading and
unloading of oversized and commercial vehicles; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a pubtic hearing on December 8,2021 , to
review the request for a text amendment and, after considering all the information received,
made a recommendation to approve the text amendment request to the City Council; and

      WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on January 4,
2022;and

       WHEREAS, after taking into consideration citizen testimony, planning analysis, and the
Planning Commission's recommendation as part of its deliberations, the City Council finds it is
appropriate and within the best interest of the City to make changes to the Code.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah
as follows:

      Section l. The following sections of the Midvale City Municipal Code are hereby
amended as included in the following attachments to this document:

              o Attachment A: Amending Chapter l7-7-9 Bingham Junction Zone
              . Attacknent B: Amending Chapter l7-7-9.12.1 Riverwalk Zone
     Midvale Municipal Code                                                                    Page 2119




             o Attachment C: Amending Chapter 17-7-9.12.2 The Junction at Midvale Zone
             o Attachment D: Amending Chapter l7-7-9.12.3 Silver Refinery Overlay
         Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect upon the date of first publication.

         PASSED AND APPROVED this 4'h day of January 2022.

                                       Y SI4 14,
                               k,
                          :t        S{co9lo[.lIED
                                                    c   Marcus Stevenson,        OI
                         o
                                                    ,
                          *          4rry r, tco9   *
ATTEST:                                                 Voting by City Council        "Aye"    "Nay"
                                        RATg            Quinn Sperry
                                                        Paul Glover                     t'/
                                                        Heidi Robinson                  L.''
                          C                             Bryant Brown                    r//
Ci    Recorder                                          Dustin Gettel                   L"-

Date of first publication                               LL
      Midvalc Municipal Codc                                Page 3/49




                                       Attachment A:
                                       Chapter l7-7-9
                                BINGHAM JUNCTION ZONE (BO

Sections:
17-7-9.1 Puqpose.
17 -7   -9.2 Planning and zoning process.
17-7-9.3 Uses.
17-7-9.4 Common intent statements.
17-7-9.4.1 Subarea I intent statements.
l7-7-9.4.2 Subarea 2 intent statements.
17-7-9.4.3 Subarea 3 intent statements.
l7-7-9.4.4 Subarea 4 intent statements.
l7-7-9.4.5 Subarea 5 intent statements.
l7-7-9.4.6 Subarea 6 intent statements.
17-7    -9.5 Common development standards.
17-7-9.6 Parking.
17-7-9.7 Utilities.
17-7 -9.8 Outdoor advertising.
17-7 -9.9 Conditional use standards of review.
17-7-9.10 Itinerart merchant.
17 -7   -9.11 Institutional controls.
17-7 -9.12 Adopted zoning plans.
17-7 -9.13 Related provisions.



17-7-9.1 Purpose.

[No changes in this section.]

l7 -7-9.2 Planning and zoning process.

fNo changes in this section.l

17-7-9.3 Uses.

[No changes in this section.]

l7-7 -9.4 Common intent statements.

[No changes in this section.]

17   -7-9.4.1 Subarea I intent statements.

fNo changes in this section.l
      Midvalc Municipal Code                                                                  Page 4/49




17   -7-9.4.2 Subarea 2 intent statements.

[No changes in this section.]

l7 -7 -9.4,3 Subarea 3 intent strtements.


[No changes in this section.]

11-7-9.4,4 Subarea 4 intent statements.

[No changes in this section.]

l7-7-9.4.5 Subarea 5 intent statements.

[No changes in this section.]

l7-7 -9.4.6 Subarea 6 intent statements.

[No changes in this section.]

l7-7-9.5 Common development standards,

fNo changes in this section.l

17-7-9.6 Parking.

The planning commission shall grant a reduction ofup to thirty-five percent ofrequired parking
upon an applicant's demonstration of opportunities for shared parking within a mixed-use
development or within a quarter-mile radius of the light rail transit (LRT) station.

A. Allowance for Small Businesses within Subarea 5.
        l.   On-Street Parking. Businesses under three thousand square feet leasable area may
        include on-street parking in their parking requirements, up to fifty percent oftotal required
        spaces.


        2. Parking Reductions. Businesses under three thousand square feet gross floor area,
        located in mixed-use buildings may receive up to a twenty-five percent reduction in
        parking requirements, based upon the expected customer tumover for the service provided.
Midvale Municipal Codc                                                       Page 5/49




                         USES                 PARKING
                                              REQUIREMENT
                                              (Number of spaces)
                         Assembly Hall        1 for every 2 employees
                                              in the largest shift + 1 for
                                              each vehicle used in
                                              conducting the business
                         Auditorium           I per vehicle for sale or
                                              rent plus one space per
                                              employee per shift
                         Bed and Breakfast    I per bedroom + I per
                         Inn                  employee per shift
                         Caf-e/Deli           3 per 1,000 s.f. ofnet
                                              leasable building area

                         Car Wash
                         . Automatic Tunnel   6 stacking spaces per
                         (primary)            wash bay
                         . Automatic Tunnel   8 stacking spaces per
                         (secondary)          wash bay

                         Child Care           I per on-duty employee
                         Facility/Center      and I per 6 children
                         Convenience Store, 5 per I ,000 s.f. of net
                         Support            leasable building area
                         Commercial Uses
                         Financial            3 per 1,000 s.f. ofnet
                         Institution          leasable building area

                         Group Care           The greater of: I per 2
                         Facility             bedrooms plus I per
                                              employee per shift, or 2
                                              per 3 employees/shift

                         Hospital, Limited    I per 2 beds
                         Care

                         Hospital, General    3 per bed

                         Hotel                I per suite and 1 space
                                              per 200 s.f'. ol separately
                                              leasable space

                         Indoor               I per 4 seats or 5 per
                         Entertainment,       1,000 s.f. of floor area
                         Theater              depending on type of
                                              facility
Midvalc MunicipalCode                                                        Pagc 6i{9




                        USES                  PARKING
                                              REQUIREMENT
                                              (Number of spaces)
                        Master Planned        Determined by planning
                        Development           commission, based on
                                              proposed uses and
                                              potential for shared
                                              parking
                        Neighborhood          2 per I,000 s.f. of net
                        Commercial            leasable building area

                        Offices, General      3 per 1,000 s.L ofnet
                                              leasable building area

                        Offices. Intensive  5 per 1 ,000 s.f. of net
                        and Clinic. Medical leasable building area
                                                                'l
                        Public and Quasi-     The greater of: per 5
                        Public Institution,   seats, or 2 per 3
                        Church and            employees, or 1 per
                        School; Public        1,000 s.f.
                        Utility
                        Recreation Facility, I per 4 persons (based on
                        Private              the facility's maximum
                                             rated capacity)

                        Recreation Facility. The greater of: 1 per 4
                        Commercial           seats; 5 per 1,000 s.f. ol
                                             floor area; or I per 3
                                             persons rated capacity

                        Retail and Service    3 fbr each 1,000 s.t'. of
                        Commercial            net leasable building area
                        Personal Service

                        Retail and Service    5 for each 1,000 s.f. of
                        Commercial,           net leasable building area
                        Regional
                        Retail and Service.   5 per I ,000 s.f. ol net
                        Auto-Related and      Ieasable building area
                        Gas Stations

                        Restaurant.            I for every 100 s.t-. ofnet
                        Standard and Bar      leasable floor area,
                                              including kitchen areas
                        Restaurant, wilh      |5  per i,000 s.f. of net
                        Drive-up              I
                                                leasable tloor area
   Midvale MunicipalCodc                                                                       Page 7/49




                           USES                 PARKING
                                                REQUIREMENT
                                                (Number of spaces)
                           Senior Alfordable     Not less than 1 space per
                           Housing               dwelling unit; plus not
                                                 less than 0.3 spaces per
                                                 dwelling unit for guest
                                                 parking
                           Shopping Centers      3.5 per 1,000 s.f. ofnet
                           or Complexes of       leasable building area
                           Multi-Tenant
                           Retail Spaces
                           Single Family         2 per dwelling unit



B. Driveway and Parking Lot Standards. The following driveway width dimensions and parking
lot standards apply to all new development. The city engineer may approve minor variations
(less than or equal to ten percent) in driveway width and spacing.

     1. Driveway Standards. Driveways shall comply with the following standards:
           a.   No driveway shall be less than fifty f'eet liom intersecting rights-of'-way;

          b. Commercial driveways that exceed fifteen feet in width at the lot frontage must
          be separated by a landscaped area ofat least twelve feet in width and ten feet in depth.

                i. One-Way Drive- The minimum one-way drive width is fifteen feet. The
                maximum one-way drive width is twenty tbet.

                ii. Two-Way Drive. The minimum two-way drive width is twenty-four feet.
                The maximum two-way drive width is thirty-six feet.

     2. Parking. No parking is allowed within the required front yard setbacks.
           a. Ifa parking lot or driveway to a parking lot is proposed to abut a residential use,
           the applicant must screen the lot or drive and provide adequate sight distance triangle.

           b. Required Landscaping. The following landscaping standards apply to new
           development:

                 i. Parking areas with more than four stalls must have perimeter landscaping of
                at least five feet in width;
   Midvale Municipal Code                                                                    Page 8/49




                 ii. Parking areas with over ten stalls must have a minimum of ten percent
                 interior landscaping, and perimeter landscaping ofat least five f'eet in width;

                 iii. Parking areas with over fifteen spaces shall provide landscaped islands at
                 the end ofeach parking row, an island for every fifteen spaces, perimeter
                 landscaping ofat least five feet in width, and a minimum often percent interior
                 landscaping.

     3. Spacing. New development shall provide the following:
           a. Commercial. A minimum of seventy-five feet spacing between major commercial
           driveways is recommended. Shared use of commercial drives is strongly
           recommended.

           b. Centerline. The centerline ofintersections ofthe driveways ofmajor traffic
           generators entering from opposite sides ofa roadway must be either perfectly aligned
           or offset by a minimum ofone hundred fifty feet.

           c. Deviations. The city engineer may approve spacing deviations to ibcilitate
           adequate access to a business or parcel.

C. Parking Garages and Structures. Parking within a parking garage or structure requires:
      1. Aisle. The minimum aisle width is twenty-four feet;
     2. Circulation. The parking structure must be designed to ensure that each required
     parking space is readily accessible, usable and safe for automobiles and pedestrians;

     3. Location. The parking structure should not be located on a street frontage unless
     measures have been taken to provide architectural relief and pedestrian scale to the ground
     floor;

     4. Architecture. Architectural reliefshall be integrated into all facades to soften visual
     impacts and to provide a visual relationship with the surrounding structures.

D. Commercial Use Parking Standards. Parking for new commercial uses shall comply with
the following:

      1. Surfacing. Parking areas and driveways must be hard-surfaced, maintained in good
     condition, and clear of obstructions at all times.

     2. Parking Space Dimensions. All new commercial development shall provide parking
     spaces of the following minimum dimensions. The city engineer may approve minor (ten
     percent) variations in parking space dimensions.
Midvale MunicipalCode                                                                 I)age 9/49




       a     Parking spaces must be nine feet wide by eighteen feet long;

       b. ADA parking space width requirements vary and shall be consistent with current
       Uniform Building Code standards; and

       c. Compact spaces with dimensions of nine feet wide by sixteen feet long may be
       provided. These spaces are not code spaces for the purpose of satis[ing parking
       requirements.

  3. Grading and Drainage. Parking shall be graded and constructed as fbllows:
       a. Parking areas must be graded for proper drainage with surface water diverted to
       keep the parking area free of accumulated water and ice;

       b. Adequate control curbs must be installed to control drainage and direct vehicle
       movemenu

       c. Parking area drainage must be detained on-site, treated (if required by NPDES),
       and channeled to a storm drain or gutter as approved by the city engineer;

       d. Driveways may not exceed a ten percent slope;
       e. Drives serving more than one single family dwelling shall provide a minimum
       twenty-foot transition area at no greater than two percent slope beginning at the back
       of the curb, or as otherwise approved by the city engineer, in anticipation of future
       street improvements; and

       f. The maximum stormwater discharge level accepted by the city is two-tenths of a
       cubic foot per second per acre.

4. Street Access and Circulation. New commercial development shall provide the
following:
       a. Off-Street Parking. Oft--street parking areas must have unobstructed access to a
       street or alley. The parking area design for five or more vehicles must not encourage
       cars to back onto adjoining public sidewalks, parking strips, or roadways. With the
       exception of permitted tandem parking, parking spaces shall be independently
       accessible and unobstructed.

       b. Comer Lots. No landscape obstruction is allowed in excess oltwo feel in height
       above street grade within the sight distance triangle. A reasonable number oftrees
       with lower branches pruned to six feet to permit automobile drivers and pedestrians an
       unobstructed view of the intersection may be allowed by administrative permit.
Midvale Municipal Code                                                                       Pagc 10/49



        c. Driveway Access. For comer lots, the triangular area is dellned by the intersection
        ofthe road right-ot'-way, the line extending from the point-of-curve at the top-back-of-
        curb, and a line comecting them at points thirty feet tiom their intersection.

        d. Drive-Through Developments. Applicants for all drive-up or drive-through
        service windows or facilities must provide sufficient stacking space for vehicles
        waiting for service, to prevent vehicles lrom waiting in the right-of-way.

        e. Common Driveways. To encourage the location of parking in the rear yard and/or
        below grade, the city allows common driveways along shared side yards to provide
        access to parking if the owner restricts the deeds to both properties to preserve the
        shared drive in perpetuity.

        f.  o1+-S+terloading Sp+r.er;. \ r'ca s. Every structure that is to be used for any
        purpose which involves the receipt or distribution of materials or merchandise by
        vehicle must provide and maintain adequate space for standing, loading, or unloading
        services off- qlqq - s1rcc1

             i.   Of}'-Street

                      a. All such loading areas or berths shall be located so that no vehicle
                            loading or unloading merchandise or other material shatl be parked in
                            any front yard or in any street or right-of-way.

                      b. Loading docks and loading areas must be screened from adjoining
                            property and public right-of-way.

          ii.     On-Street

                      a. All designated on-street loading areas must be located entirelv \r'ithin
                            or irnmediatelv adiacenr ro rhc public u:hLoL! ar 4!rdr!ay !a1
                            impede a vehicle travel lane or thc' adiacent sidewalk

                         b. F'or a public ri,rhrof'-wav that does nol have a sufllcient shoulder or
                               lkin   area 10 ermil an on-streel loadin   area without irn    din
                            vehicle or pedestrian tratflc. the owner may construct an on-strell!
                            loading area thal extends into the landscapins setback under Scction
                             17-7-10.11.5 and the planter area requiredundersesllan l7:7- O-l Ll
                             I he ow'ner must still provide a sidgwalk that rneet the requirements ol'
                            thi s Chaoter. The Community Devclopnpry1Bj4q1q114y4[]qry a
                            public easement to be used to relocate a public sid ewalk within
                              rivatel owned ro e11 A constructed on-stree              ll1 area IIa
                            not exceed l2 l'ce t in width fiom the existinu curb
Midvale MunicipalCode                                                                        Page I l/49




                        c. On-slreet loadinu areas are limited to no more than 100' in lensth. No
                           more than one on-street loadin area is permitted Der slreet liontaire
                           per block.

                        d. Conslructed on-                                         wl hs
                           concrele or Davers o n-street loadinc areas located within an existins
                           on-street D arkin !! area must be strioed to distinsuish such areas tiom
                           the adiacent roadwar,. All on-street loadin g areas must have signage aI
                           each end of the on-slreel load ln 1) 1l a desienatins the on-streel loadinq
                           area fbr loading and unloading purposes onlr,. Signaqe must be
                           substantially similar to the fbllowing sign types:




                                          NO
                                      PAR!(!I{G
                                      LOADING
                                       ZONE
                                                        : and




                                     DEIIUERY

                                         0l{tY

                               ll.

                    e. On-street loading areas are limited to use by vehicles no larser than
                           26.000 GVWR and for no lonc er than two hours ner vehicle oer dav.

                        t'. Constructed on-streel loadins areas must be located at least 200' l'rom
                           intqrsections or other driveways on the same side al lhqsEectatd,
                           slreets without a center tum lane. must align with driveways on thc
                           opposite side of the street.

                           All curb cuts must be installed accordin! o the standards and
                           sDecitlcalions conlained in the Midvale Ci tv Co nstruction Star.rdards
                           and Specitlcations handbook. The Ci tv En lneer musl anorove all on-
                           street loading areas.
   Midvale Municipal Code                                                              Page 12/49




E. Calculation olSpaces. Ifa project incorporates two uses, the use requiring higher number of
parking spaces shall govern. Whenever the calculation results in a fractional number, the number
ofspaces required must be rounded up to the next whole number. (Ord. 2019-06 $ 1 (Att. B)
(part); Ord.20l5-06 $ 1 (Att. B) (part)l Ord.2015-01 $ 1 (Att. B) (part); Ord.9/23120080-7 $ 1,
2008; Ord. 9121120040-29 g I (part),2004)

l7-7-9-7 Utilities.

[No changes in this section.]

l7 -7-9.8 Outdoor advertising.

[No changes in this section.]

17-7-9.9 Conditional use standards of review.

[No changes in this section.]

l7-7-9.10 Itinerant merchant.

[No changes in this section.]

17-7-9.11 Institutional controls.

[No changes in this section.]

l7-7-9.12 Adopted zoning plans.

[No changes in this section.]

17-7-9.13 Related provisions.

[No changes in this section.]
    Midvale Municipal Code                                                              Page 13/49




                                           Attachment B:
                                         Chapter 17-7 -9.12.1
                                        RIVERWALK ZONE

Sections:
17 -7 -9.r2.1.1    Purpose.
17 -7 -9.12.1 .2   Boundary.
17 -7 -9.t2.1.3    Use.
17-7-9.t2.1.4     Single family residential development standards.
17 -7 -9.12.t.5   Medium and high density residential development standards.
17-7-9.12.1.6     Retail/office/flex and mixed-use lot and development standards.
17 -7 -9.12.1.7   Retail/offi ce/fl ex and mixed-use landscaping.
17-7-9.12.1.8     Retail/office/fl ex and mixed-use architectural standards.
t7 -7 -9.12.t.9   Trails and open space.
17 -7 -9.12.1 .10  Streets and alleys.
t7 -7 -9.12.1 .11  Related provisions.


17 -7 -9,12,1.1 Purpose.


[No changes in this section.]

17-7-9.12.1.2 Boundary.

[No changes in this section.]

l7-7-9.12.1.3 Use.

fNo changes in this section.l

17 -7 -9.12.1.4 Single family residential development standards,


[No changes in this section.]

17-7-9.12.1.5 Medium and high density residential development standards.

[No changes in this section.]

11-7-9.12.1.6 RetaiUoflice/flex and mixed-use lot and development standards.

[No changes in this section.]

17 -7 -9.12,1.7 RetaiUoffice/flex   and mixed-use landscaping.

The following landscaping standards apply to all new development in the retail/officeiflex and
mixed-use land use areas:
   Midvale Municipal Code                                                                 l']agc l4l49




A. Required Landscaping. The applicant shall profbssionally landscape the lot, according to an
approved landscape plan, as a condition precedent to receiving a certificate ofoccupancy for all
commercial uses. The community development director shalI evaluate landscape plans for all
permitted uses. The planning commission shall evaluate landscape plans for conditional uses.
Landscape plan approval is a condition precedent to issuance ofa building permit for the parcel.
All landscaping shall be in place prior to issuance ofa certificate ofoccupancy, unless seasonal
conditions make installation unfeasible, in which case the applicant shall provide cash security,
or its approved altemative, for all landscaping yet to be completed, which landscaping shall be
installed by the following May 3 I st.

      1. Physical Connections. Each lot shall have a system ofpedestrian walkways and
     sidewalks that provide connections between the building entrances, neighboring building
     entrances, sidewalks, parking areas, open space and public trails.

     2. Minimum Landscaped Area. Thirteen percent ofthe area ofeach retail/office/flex or
     mixed-use lot shall be developed as landscaped setbacks, courtyards, plazas, open space or
     walkways.

     3.   Landscaped Setback from Edge ofPublic Right-of-Way. The landscaped setback from
     the edge ofa public right-of-way shall be twenty feet. Courtyard or plaza areas shall be
     deemed to be a part ofthe front setback ofthe building. All front setback areas shall be
     landscaped in accordance with the Riverwalk at Bingham Junction design guidelines.
     Maintenance buildings, trash collection and recycling areas, storage and service areas,
     mechanical equipment and otl-sr_lccr loading drrk;irrca5 shall not be permitted in the front
     setback of any building and shall be located behind the main building structure, or
     completely screened from public view.

     4. Buitding Foundation Landscaping. The ground adjacent to the building foundation
     must be landscaped if it is visible lrom public vantage points.

     5. Residential Buffer. A landscaped bufler shall be required to separate residential uses
     from commercial and industrial uses.

           a. Landscaped Buffer Area. The landscape bufl'er area must be a minimum of thirty
           feet wide to provide adequate screening, buffering, and separation ofthese uses. The
           landscape treatment should use a combination oldistance and low level screening to
           separate the uses to soften the visual impact of the commercial or industrial use. The
           thirty-fbot buf'fer area may be shared between adjoining properties. upon adequate
           proof of reciprocal easements to preserve and maintain the bufter area. The
           landscaped bulfer area shall include a minimum ofone tree lbr every two hundred
           fifty square feet.

           b. Futly Sight-Obscuring Fence. The planning commission shall require complete
           visual separation fiom residential uses if it determines that complete screening is
           necessary to protect abutting uses, and landscaping is not practical. Such fence must
   Midvale Municipal Code                                                                   Page 15/49




            be a minimum of six feet high (up to eight feet if warranted and approved by the
            planning commission) and completely sight-obscuring. Fences may be of wood,
            metal, bricks, masonry or other permanent materials,

     6. Plant Materials. Areas requiring landscaping shall be planted with substantial live plant
     material including: plants, shrubs, trees. sod, etc.. fbr the purpose olbuffbring, screening,
     and improving the visual quality ofthe site.

            a. Types ofVegetation. At least twenty-tive percent oftrees and shrubs must be
            evergreen. Up to twenty-five percent olthe landscape area can include specialty
            paving, street fumiture, and outdoor seating areas. Trees that are planted in the park
            strip shall meel the specifications described in the street tree selection guide of
            Midvale City.

            b. Size ofTrees. The fotlowing standards apply to the use ofplant and tree material
                 i. Deciduous Trees. All deciduous trees shall have a minimum caliper size of
                 two inches.

                 ii. Omamental Trees. Al[ ornamental trees shall have a minimum caliper size of
                 one and one-half inches.

                 lll. Evergreen Trees. All evergreen trees shall have a minimum height of six
                 feet

     7   . See Section 17-7-9.5 for further landscaping standards. (Ord. 201 6- l 5 $ 1 (Att. A)
     (part); Ord. 811/20060-12 $ I (part),2006)

17 -7 -9.12.1.8 RetaiVoffice/flex and mixed-use architectural standards.
All new development must present an attractive, coordinated streetscape. incorporate
architectural and site design elements appropriate to a pedestrian scale and provide for the safety
and convenience ofpedestrians. All new development shall comply with the lollowing
archilectural standards:

A. Walls. No more than three materials shall be used for primary wall surfaces. Exterior
finishes shall be oftraditional, time- and weather-tested techniques. Retaining and screening
walls shall be of materials complementary to the building's materials. Buildings shall use a
cohesive palette of colors which complement nearby buildings. Without limiting the use of color,
large areas olwall shall be subdued in color and not reflective. lntense colors should be used as
accent only.

B. Roofs. All the roofs and dormer roofs of a building shall be constructed of the same
material. Slopes of roofs shall be of equal pitch ila gable or hip roof is employed. All metal
roofs must be of a subdued color. Painted roof shingles are prohibited.
   Midvalc Municipal Codc                                                                  l'age l6/,19



C. Fences, Hedges, and Walls. The following standards apply to new development of fences,
hedges and walls:

     l.   Required Setbacks. A fence, hedge, wall, column, pier, post, or any similar structure or
     any combination ofsuch structures is permitted in the required setback ofa zone district       if
     it meets the following conditions:

           a. All fences and walls meet the requirements of Title 15, Buildings and
           Construction;

           b. No fence, hedge, or wall extends beyond or across a properly line without a
           recorded agreement with the abutting property owner;

           c    Reserved;

           d. Only one fence or wall shall be allowed per property line. Double fences, walls or
           combination thereof are prohibited; and

           e. No barbed wire or other sharp, pointed, or electrically charged fence may be
           erected or maintained, except a temporary fence on a construction site to protect the
           properry during the period ofconstruction may be topped with barbed wire where the
           barbed wire is not less than eight feet above the ground and does not extend more than
           two feet above the temporary fence.

     2. Height. No fence structures may exceed seven feet in height, four feet in height from
     the front ofthe primary structure forward, or three feet in the sight distance triangle,
     measured as follows:

           a. In a required yard abutting a street. the total efTective height above the finished
           grade measured on the side nearest the street;

           b. In any other required yard, the total effective height above the finished grade
           measured on the side nearest the abutting property;

           c. On a property line, measured from the finished grade ofeither side when the
           abutting property owners rue in agreement; and

           d. A temporary fence on a construction site may be as high as required to protect the
           property during the period ofconstruction.

     3. Athletic Facilities. Fencing around athletic iacilities, including, without limitation,
     tennis courts, may be fourteen feet in height so long as all portions above six feet are
     constructed with at least fifty percent nonopaque materials. Fencing around golf courses
     and driving ranges may be constructed to a height such that ninety-nine percent of all errant
     objects are contained as demonstrated by the applicant through submittal ofappropriate
   Midvale Municipal Code                                                                 Pagc l7l49




     data/studies and approved by the planning commission. This fencing shall comply with the
     following requirements :

           a.  All golfcourse and driving range netting shall be constructed ofblack netting and
           be at least ninety percent transparent;

           b. The minimum setbacks shall be the same as for structures in the zone. Setbacks
           may be increased by the planning commission if it is found necessary to provide
           appropriate buffering from roadways and adjacent properties;

           c. Landscape bulfering shall be provided to visually soften the f-encing tiom the
           vantage point ofthe motorist and pedestrian. Buff'ering may include plant materials.
           berming, or a combination thereof;

           d. Poles for fencing shall be painted black, bronze or blue/grey to blend with the
           sky. The planning commission, based upon a color study submitted by the applicant,
           shall approve the final color scheme for the poles; and

          e. Any other conditions deemed necessary by the planning commission pursuant to
          the general review criteria noted in Section 17-7-9.9 to mitigate the impacts ofthe
          fencing on the surrounding area.

     4. Conformance with This Section. No person shall construct, alter, or maintain a fence,
     hedge, wall, column, pier, post, or any similar structure or any combination of such
     structures except in conformance with all of the requirements of this section.

D. Reserved.
E. Miscellaneous. Security devices shall have materials and colors that complement the
building's architecture and building materials. Accessory structures shall be architecturally
compatible with the primary development. Satellite dishes shall not be placed in view from the
front yards.


                                         Table l7-7-9.12.1.8
                                      Architectural Standards

                   Materials                       Configurations                Techniques
Walls
Building Walls: Architectural pre-cast          Traditional, time- and Buitdings shall use a cohesive
concrete, architecturally treated concrete      weather-tested         palette ofcolors which
masonry units, brick cladding, natural and      materials.             complement nearby buildings.
cast stone, architectural metals and glazing.                          Without limiting the use of
No more than 3 materials shall be used for                             color, large areas of wall shall
                                                                       be subdued in color and not
   Midvale Municipal Codc                                                                Pagc 18/49




                                         Table l7-7-9.12.1.8
                                      Architectural Standards

                   Materials                     Configurations                 Techniques
the primary wall surfaces on a building or                             reflective. Intense colors
fence.                                                                 should be used as accent only.


Retaining Walls: Shall be of materials and    Traditional. time- and Retaining walls shall use a
color complementary to the building's         weather-tested         cohesive palette of colors
materials.                                    materials              which complement nearby
                                                                     buitdings. Without limiting
                                                                     the use ofcolor, large areas ol
                                                                     wall shall be subdued in color
                                                                     and not reflective.

Roofs
Roofs & Dormers: All the roofs and            Slopes of roofs shall    Metal roofs must have a
dormer roofs of a building shall be           be of equal pitch        subdued color. Painted
constructed of the same material.             when a gable or hip      shingles are prohibited.
                                              rool is employed.


Cornices & Trim: Shall be made with a
material and color complementary to
building.
Elements
Entry Porches: Front steps shall be
constructed of durable materials.


Miscellaneous: Security devices shall have    Satellite dishes over    Extemal lights shall be located
materials and colors that complement the      18" shall not be         and used to avoid light
building's material.                          placed in front yards.   trespass.
Accessory structures shall be compatible      Awnings shall not be
with the primary structure.                   backlit.


Yard Walls & Fences: Shall be of materials Max. height on lot is       Masonry wall shall be at least
and color complementary to the building's  7',.                        8" thick and capped by a
materials.                                 Mar. height from            weather protection lop course.
                                              front of primary
                                              structure forward is
   Midvale Municipal (--ode                                                                Page | 9/49




                                         Table 17-7-9.12.1.8
                                      Architectural Standards

                     Materials                     Configurations                  Techniques
                                                4'. Max. height in site
                                                distance triangle is 3'.


Driveways & Parking: Curbs shall be                                        Storage yards shall be
concrete or asphalt.                                                       screened and have paved
                                                                           surfaces.



F. Exterior Structure. All exterior walls ofall structures shall be constructed in compliance
with the following:

     1. All buildings shall use one or more of the following durable materials as significant
     finish: architectural pre-cast concrete, architecturally treated concrete masonry units, brick
     cladding, natural and cast stone, architectural metals, and glazing. Architectural site-cast
     concrete may be allowed ifdesigned, articulated, and colored for a finished appearance on
     all buildings. At least fifty percent of all buildings visible from 7200 South shatt be
     composed ofbrick, stone, architecturally treated CMU, and/or architectural pre-cast
     concrete.

     2. High standards for exterior materials, exterior building systems, and their application
     are expected. In particular, the design, and application ofEIFS or synthetic stucco is
     expected to be ofa high enough quality to allow for crisp detailing and substantial relief.
     The use ofEIFS on ground floor walls shall be limited to the surface area three or more
     feet above finished grade. The wall area from finished grade to where the use ofEIFS
     begins shall be clad by a hard, durable material such as brick, stone, architectural pre-cast
     concrete, or architecturally treated concrete masonry units.

     3. Buildings shall provide variation in the form of facades that adjoin streets. Varialions
     should result from significant dimensional changes in plane, color or detail as
     accomplished by such devices as protruding bays, recessed entries, upper level step-backs,
     arcades, offsets in the general plane ofthe facade, changes in materials or color, bay
     windows, vestibules, porches, balconies, exterior shading devices, nonretractable canopies
     or awnings, projecting comices, or eaves.

     4. Primary public entry(s) shall be architecturally emphasized so that pedestrians can
     easily find them.

      5. Use awnings, canopies, arcades or other architectural features to reduce glare on
      storefront glass and to shelter the pedestrians standing near the storefront. Cantilever
Midvale Municipal Codc                                                                    Page 20/49




  awnings and canopies from the building face so as to keep sidewalks as clear and
  unobstructed as possible.

  6. Drive-through windows shall be located at the side or rear of buildings. While not
  desirable, a drive aisle may be located between the building and the street so long as its
  width is minimized, any pedestrian crossings of it are clearly delineated with special
  paving treatments, no parking spaces occur offofit and a low wall, railing with
  landscaping, or a continuous hedge at least three feet high exists between stacked cars and
  the sidewalk.

  7. Opaque (solid) storefront security closures (rolling doors, etc.) are not allowed.
  8. Weather Protection. Weather protection features such as awnings, canopies, doors
  inset by at least three feet, or arcades shall be provided at all customer entrances.

  9. Facade Features. All large retail building facades visible from public streets shall
  include architectural treatments that add detail, character, and reduce the appearance of
  massive blank walls. Techniques such as color and material changes, expression of
  structure, shifts in plane, offsets and projections, belt courses, reveals, pilasters, windows,
  doors, arcades, canopies, and other similar elements may achieve this standard.

  10. Parapets. Large building roofs shall have parapets and enclosures concealing flat
  roofs and rooftop equipment from public view. Parapet and enclosure materials shall match
  the building in quality and detail.

  11. Building Orientation. Building facades that face the street but do not have pedestrian
  entries shall be composed of high quality materials such as brick or stone, and shall provide
  variety and interest in the facade through the introduction ofsuch elements as pilasters,
  recessed or protruding bays, changes in materials and/or colors, building lighting elements,
  display windows with products or product graphics, transparent windows or clerestories,
  and well-designed signs and graphics. Service areas, mechanical equipment, meters and
  trash containers shall be completely screened from the street.

  12. Entryways. Each large retail building on a site shall have clearly defined, highly
  visible customer entrances featuring a combination of several elements such as:

        a    Canopies- au nings or porticos.

        b    Projecting eaves and comices

        c    Recesses/projections of wall surfaces

        d    Arcades.

        e    Raised parapets over the door
    Midvale Municipal Code                                                                        Pagc 2ll49




            f. Peaked roof forms.
            e. Lighting features.
            h. Entry plazas.
                Display windows.

           j. Architectural details such as masonry tile work and moldings which are integrated
            into the building structure and design.

            k. Integral planters or wing walls that incorporate landscaping.
            l. Signs integrated with the buitding architecture
G. Openings. The following standards apply to openings ofall structures
      l   Entry Doors. Entry doors must face the front yard or, if located on the building side,
      must be placed within three feet ofthe front facade. Entry doors must be covered by a roof
      and must be a primary element of the front of the structure.

      2. Windows. Bay windows shall have from three to five sides.
      3. Comer Buildings. Special attention shall be given to corner buildings that are highly
      visible, that may serve as landmarks, and provide a sense ofenclosure at intersections.
      Special attention can be achieved by architecture, landscape, and public place.

H. Reserved-
I. Screening. Trash collection and recycling areas. service areas, mechanical equipment and
,, I'i:t',i loading,.:,,.. ..-. rr.,,. shall be screened on all sides so that no pofiion olsuch areas are
visible from public streets and alleys and adjacent properties. Required screening may include.
new and existing plantings. walls, fences. screen panels, doors, topographic changes, buildings,
horizontal separation. or any combination thereof.

      1. For nonresidential and mixed-use structures. all roof-mounted mechanical and
      electrical equipment, communication antennas or dishes shall be screened liom the view oi
      a pedestrian at the far side ofadjoining rightof-way or one hundred feet from the front
      property line. whichever is less, or designed and/or located as part ofthe overall
      architectural design.

      2. For residential structures, roof-top mechanical equipment, vents, flues. fans and other
      pieces of equipment shall be screened and/or organized to leave sloped roofs as simple and
      uncluttered as possible, or, where roofs are flat, to be screened tiom view ola pedestrian at
      the far side of the adjoining right-of:-way or one hundred feet from the front property line,
   Midvale Municipal Codc                                                                   Page 22/49




     whichever is less. Where such appurtenances are visible, they shall be painted a color that
     matches the roofcolor or other architectural features so that their visual impact is
     minimized.

     3. Refuse containers shall be screened from view on all sides. Screen walls and fences
     shall be one foot higher than the object to be screened. An opaque gate shall be included
     where required to complete screening.

     4. i-t++tltrr3.tkr€+. Off-street loading areas and/or service areas shall be located to the side
     or rear ofbuildings. Where they are directly visible from streets, and nearby residential
     buildings, they shall be screened by walls at least eight feet high, or densely and
     continuously massed landscaping that maintains its screening capabilities in the winter.
     Raised planters, berms or other land forms may also be used in conjunction with
     landscaping or walls. A combination ofdense, continuous landscaping and walls may allow
     the use oflower walls, but no lower than lour feet high from finished grade. (Ord. 2019-06
     $ 1 (Att. B) (part); Ord.2016-15 $ I (Att. A) (part); Ord. 2015-01 $ I (Att. A) (part); Ord.
     81112006o,-12 g I (part),2006)

17-7-9.12.1.9 Trails and open space.

[No changes in this section.]

17 -7 -9.12.1.10   Streets and alleys.

[No changes in this section.]

17-7-9.12.1.11 Related provisions.

[No changes in this section.]
   Midvale Municipal Code                                                          I'dgc 2.]/19
   Chaptet 17-7-9.12.2THE JUNCTION AT MIDVALE
   ZONE

                                     Attachment C:
                                   Chapter l7-7-9.12.2
                            THE JUNCTION AT MIDVALE ZONE

Sections:
17-7-9.12.2.1 Purpose.
17 -7 -9.12.2.2 Boundary.
17-7-9.12.2.3 Use.
17 -7 -9.12.2.4 Single family residential development standards.
17-7-9.12.2.5 Medium and high density residential development standards.
17-7-9.12.2.6 Retail/office/flex and mixed-use lot and development standards.
17 -7 -9.12.2.7 Retail/office/fl ex and mixed-use architectural standards.
17 -7 -9.12.2.8 Retail/office/flex and mixed-use landscaping.
17 -7 -9.12.2.9 Trails and open space.
17-7-9.12.2.10 Streets and alleys.
17 -7 -9.12.2.11 Parking standards.
17 -7 -9.12.2.12 Live/work units.
17 -7 -9.12.2.13 Thematic elements.
17-7-9.12.2.14 Related provisions.


17-7 -9.12.2.1 Purpose.


[No changes in this section.]

17-7 -9.12.2.2 Boundary.


[No changes in this section.]

17-7-9.12.2.3 Use.

[No changes in this section.]

17 -7 -9.12.2.4 Single family residential development standards.


fNo changes in this section.l

17 -7 -9.12.2.5 Medium and high density residential development standards.


[No changes in this section.]

17 -7 -9.12.2.6 RetaiUoffice/flex   and mixed-use lot and development standards.

[No changes in this section.]
   Midvale MunicipalCode                                                                    Page 24149
   Chapter 17-7-9.12.2THE JUNCTION AT MIDVALE
   ZONE




17 -7 -9.12.2.7 RetaiVoffice/flex and mixed-use architectural standards.


All new development must present an attractive, coordinated streetscape, incorporate
architectural and site design elements appropriate to a pedestrian scale and provide for the sat-ety
and convenience of pedestrians. All new development shall comply with the fbllowing
architectural standards :

A. Walls. No more than three materials shall be used for primary wall surfbces.
      I   . Materials. Exterior finishes shall be of traditional, time- and weather-tested techniques
     and shall include a substantial use ofbrick, cultured brick, natural or cultured stone, prairie
     stone, and./or wood or synthetic wood products. Glazing may be used as a primary exterior
     material when glazing is proposed as a major architectural design element or look for a
     project area consisting ofat least two buildings and including all ofthe buildings that are
     separated by a major feature such as a linear park, collector street, or similar element that
     sets an area apart. Retaining and screening walls shall be of materials complementary to the
     building's materials.

     2. Stucco. The use of stucco, synthetic stucco and EIFS should be limited and shall not
     exceed fifty percent ofany elevation. The planning commission may determine, on a case-
     by-case basis, that the architectural detail and excellence ofa structure is such that the use
     ofstucco in excess of this standard is warranted.

      3. Other Architectual Materials/Finishes. Architectural pre-cast concrete, architecturally
     treated concrete masonry units, and architectural metals should be used primarily to
     provide architectural detail and relief. Fiberglass and/or metal panels may be used in
     relatively small quantities. The planning commission may allow other materials and
     material quantities that it finds add to the architectural excellence ofthe structure and
     project.

     4. Prohibited Materials. Vinyl and aluminum siding products are prohibited as wall
     materials.

      5.   Base Materials. Each structure shall have a base or foundation material ofbrick,
      cultured brick, natural or cultured stone. This base or foundation shall be a minimum
      height of one-third the overall height ofthe structure. The base or foundation shall extend
      beyond the plane ofthe wall above it, creating a larger mass at the base ofthe building.
      The planning commission may allow for minor deviations to allow this base to terminate at
      visual breaks in the architecture or when the one-third base height overshadows the rest of
      the building architecture, specifically in single-story structures. The planning commission
      may approve altemative materials that are the qualitative equivalent ofbrick, cultured
      brick, natural or cultured stone, provided the altemative material conveys a sense ofquality
      and detail that lends itselfto the overall building design, ages gracetully and requires little
      maintenance.
   Midvale Municipal Code                                                                   Page 25149
   ChapLet 17 -7-9.12.2 T HE JUNCI lON AT MIDVALE
   ZONE

     6.   Brick and Rock Pattem. Ledge stone, uncoursed ledge rock, random or coursed Ashlar
     Flemish bond, English bond, common bond, running bond or drystack pattems shall be
     used for finished brick, rock and stone work. Herringbone, basket weave, vertical stack,
     stack bond, uncoursed roughly squared, and other vertical, irregular, or diagonal masonry
     patterns or vertical, nonaltemating bond courses may be used only as an accent. Other
     masoffy patterns shall not be used on vertical surfaces except as expressly authorized by
     the planning commission.

     7.  Color Scheme. Buitdings shall use a cohesive palette ofcolors which complement
     nearby buildings. Without limiting the use ofcolor, large areas of walls shall be subdued in
     color and not reflective. Intense colors should be used as accent only.

     8.  Design Consistency. All exposed sides ofa building shall be designed with the same
     level ofcare, quality and integrity. Buildings should be attractive and visually engaging
     from all exposed sides.

B. Roofs. Rooflines and shapes shall be consistent with the design and structure ofthe
building, and should be consistent with the roof lines ofadjacent buildings. Roof forms should
reflect the facade articulation and building massing, as opposed to a single-mass roofover an
articulated facade.

     1. Pitched roofs. Where pitched roofs are used the following standards shall apply
          a. All the roofs and secondary roofs of a building shall be constructed of the same
          material. AII metal roofs must be of a subdued color. Painted roof shingles are
          prohibited.

          b. Slopes ofroofs shall be ofequal pitch ifa gabte or hip roof is employed. Rool
          forms shall be designed in ways and/or used in combinations to break up large,
          continuous building forms, particularly for structures that are wider than they are tall.
          Long unbroken ridgelines are prohibited.

     2. Parapets. Parapets shall be provided to articulate flat root's and hide rootlmounted
     equipment. The lbttowing standards shall apply:

          a    Parapets shall have strong comice detailing to provide interest and scale.

          b. Long unbroken parapets, pa(icularly for buitdings that are wider than they are
          tall, are prohibited.

     3. Rooftop mechanical equipment shall be hidden from view from the adjoining street
     with either a parapet or a penthouse. Penthouses shall utilize materials, colors and form
     similar to that of the building.

C. Fences, Hedges, and Walls. Fences, hedges and walls should be used on a limited basis. and
only where determined necessary to screen or buller the incompatible or unsightly elements of a
   Midvale Municipal Codc                                                                     Page 26/49
   Chapter l'1-7-9.12.2THE JITNCTION AT MIDVALE
   ZONE

project such as oll'-slrcct loading areas and trash pick up areas, among others, or as required for
specific athletic facilities. The following standards apply to new development offences, hedges
and walls:

      1.    Required Setbacks. A fence, hedge, wall, column, pier, post, or any similar structure
     or any combination ofsuch structures is permitted in the required setback of a zone district
     if it meets the following conditions:

           a. All fences and walls meet the requirements of Title l5 ofthis code, Buildings and
           Construction;

           b. No fence, hedge, or wall extends beyond or across a property line without a
           recorded agreement with the abutting property owner;

           c    Reservedi

           d. Only one fence or wall shall be allowed per property line. Double fences, walls
           or combination thereof are prohibited; and

           e. No barbed wire or other sharp, pointed, or electrically charged fence may be
           erected or maintained, except a temporary fence on a construction site to protect the
           property during the period of construction may be topped with barbed wire where the
           barbed wire is not less than eight feet above the ground and does not extend more than
           two feet above the temporary fence.

      2. Height. No fence structures may exceed seven feet in height except as needed for
      screening purposes in accordance with subsection (l) of this section. Fence height shall be
      measured as follows:

           a. In a required yard abutting a street, the total effective height above the finished
           grade measured on the side nearest the street;

           b. In any other required yard, the total efTective height above the finished grade
           measured on the side nearesl the abutting propertyi

           c. On a property line, measured from the finished grade ofeither side when the
           abutting property owners are in agreement; and

           d. A temporary fence on a construction site may be as high as required to protect
           the property during the period ofconstruction.

      3.   Athletic Facilities. Fencing around athletic t-acilities, including, without limitation,
      tennis courts, may be fourteen feet in height so long as all portions above six feet are
      constructed with at least fifty percent non-opaque materials.
   Midvale Municipal Code                                                                   Page 27149
   Chapter l7-7-9.12.2 THE JUNCTION AT MIDVALE
   ZONE

     4.   Conformance with This Section. No person shall construct, alter, or maintain a fence,
     hedge, wall, column, pier, post, or any similar structure or any combination of such
     structures except in conformance with all ofthe requirements ofthis section.

D. Reseryed.
E. Miscellaneous. Security devices shall have materials and colors that complement the
building's architecture and building materials. Accessory structures shall be architecturally
compatible with the primary development. Satellite dishes shall not be placed in view from the
lront yards.

F. Exterior Structure. All exterior walls of all structures shall be constmcted in compliance
with the following:

     1. Finishes. All buildings shall use one or more of the following durable materials as
     significant finish: architectural pre-cast concrete, architecturally treated concrete masonry
     units, brick cladding, natural and cast stone, prairie stone, architectural metals, and glazing.
     Architectural site-cast concrete may be allowed ifdesigned, articulated, and colored for a
     finished appearance on all buildings. At least fifty percent ofall buildings visible from a
     major thoroughfare shall be composed ofbrick, stone, architecturally treated CMU,
     architectural pre-cast concrete and/or glazing.

     2. Quality. High standards for exterior materials, exterior building systems, and their
     application are expected. In particular, the design and application ofEIFS or synthetic
     stucco is expected to be ofa high enough quality to allow for crisp detailing and substantial
     relief. The wall area from finished grade to where the use ofEIFS begins shall be clad by a
     hard, durable material such as brick, stone, architectural pre-cast concrete, or
     architecturally treated concrete masonry units.

     3. Form Variations. Buildings shall provide variation in the lbrm of f'acades that adjoin
     streets. Street-facing facades shall make use ofat least two ofthe following variations.
     Secondary facades shall make use ofat least one ofthe following variations. Variations
     should result from significant dimensional changes in plane, color or detail as
     accomplished by such devices as:

          a    Protruding bays or columnsl

          b    Recessed entries:


          c    Upper level step-backs:

          d    Arcades;

               Off-sets, projections and shifts in the general plane of the facade;
Midvale Municipal Code                                                            l'agc 28/,1!)
Chapter l7-7-9.12.2'lHE JUNCTTON AT MIDVALE
ZONTi

        t     Changes in materials or color;

              Bay windows;

        h.    Vestibules:

              Porches;

       j.     Balconies;

        k. Exterior shading devices;
        l. Nonretractable canopies or awnings;
        I11    Projecting comices;

        l.I   Eaves; or

        o. Any other variation the planning commission may approve that meets the intent
        of this section.

  4. Window Treatments. Street-facing facades shall include at least two of the lollowing
  window treatments with at least one window treatment per window. All other facades shall
  utilize at least one of the following window treatments per window. Treatments may
  include:

        a-    Varying the size and/or style olwindows;

        b. Windows sills;
        c     Window grids:

        d. Window trim;
              Window headers:

        f.    Window railing;

        c     Recessed windows:


        h     Arcades; or

        i. Any other treatment the planning commission may approve that meets the intent
        ofthis section.
Midvale Municipal Code                                                                  Page 29/49
Chaptet 17-7-9.12.2THE J(JNCTION AT MIDVALE
ZONE

  5. Architectural Treatments. Streelfacing facades shall include at least two of the
  following architectural treatments. All other facades shall include at least one ofthe
  following architectural treatments. Treatments that add detail, character, and reduce the
  appearance of massive blank walls may include:

       a.   Omamental details such as quoins, knee braces and exposed joists;

       b.   A change of material applied to at least twenty percent ofthe f'acade;

       c    A change ofcolor applied to at least twenty percent ofthe facade;

       d    Decorative parapetsl

       e.   Reveals;

       f.   Pilasters:

            Architectural banding or belt courses;

       h.   Comice other than that at the top of the building;

            Rounded design at street comers;

       j. A change of pattem applied to at least twenty percent of the facade;
       k. A distinguished upper floor for buildings with at least four floors; or
       l. Any other treatment the planning commission may approve that meets the intent
       ofthis section. Primary public entry(s) shall be architecturally emphasized so that
       pedestrians can easily find them.

  6. Storefronts. Awnings, canopies, arcades or other architectural features should be used
  to reduce glare on storefront glass and to shelter the pedestrians standing near the
  storefront. Cantilever awnings and canopies tiom the building face so as to keep sidewalks
  as clear and unobstructed as possible. The planning commission may permit limited use of
  supporting columns as pan of a thematic design or corporate standard so long as the
  columns do not hinder pedestrian traffic or access.

  7. Drive-Through Windows. Drive-through windows shall be located at the side or rear
  of buildings. While not desirable, a drive aisle may be located between the building and the
  street so long as its width is minimized, any pedestrian crossings of it are clearly delineated
  with special paving treatments, no parking spaces occur offofit and a low wal[. railing
  with landscaping, or continuous hedge at least three feet high between stacked cars and the
  sidewalk.
   Midvale Municipal Code                                                                    Page 30/49
   Chapter 11-7-9.12.2THE JUNCTION AT MIDVALE
   ZONE

     8. Opaque (solid) storefront security closures (rolling doors, etc.) are not allowed.
     9. Weather Protection. Weather protection l'eatures such as awnings, canopies, doors
     inset by at least three feet, or arcades shall be provided at all customer entrances.

     10. Entryways. Each large retail building on a site shall have clearly defined, highly
     visible customer entrances featurins a combination of several elements such as:

           a.   Canopies, awnings or porticos;

           b. Projecting eaves and comices;
           c    Recesses/projections of wall surfaces;

           d. Arcades;
           e. Raised parapets over the door;
           f-. Peaked roof fbrmsr
                Lighting features;

           h    Entry plazas;

                Display windows;

          j.   Architectural details such as masonry tile work and moldings which are integrated
           into the building structure and design;

           k. Integral planters or wing walls that incorporate landscaping:
           l. Signs integrated with the building architecture.
     11. Secondary Facades. Building lacades that face the street but do not have pedestrian
     entries shall be composed ofhigh quality materials such as brick or stone, and shall provide
     variety and interest in the facade through the introduction ofsuch elements as pilasters,
     recessed or protruding bays, changes in materials and/or colors, building lighting elements,
     display windows with products or product graphics, transparent windows or clerestories,
     and well-designed signs and graphics.

G. Openings. The lollowing standards apply to openings ofall structures
     1.   Entry Doors. Entry doors must be covered by a roof and must be a primary element ot
     the front ofthe structure.
     Midvale Municipal Code                                                                   Page 3l/49
     Chaptet 17-7-9.12.2THE JUNCTION AT MIDVALE
     ZONE

       2. Windows. Bay windows shall have from three to five sides
       3.   Comer Buildings. Special attention shall be given to comer buildings that are highly
       visible, that may serve as landmarks and provide a sense ofenclosure at intersections.
       Special attention can be achieved by architecture, landscape, and public place.

       4. Minimum Opening Area. Not less than twenty-five percent of any street-facing
       building facade shall be made up of window or door areas. Not less than fifteen percent of
       any other building face on a third or higher story shall be made up of windows, balconies
       or other opening areas unless an adjacent building within twenty feet ofthat side face
       obscures the majority of that side face from public view. The planning commission may
       allow for a reduction to the minimum opening requirement if the applicant can demonstrate
       the building floor plan(s) required by the use cannot eflectively accommodate the
       requirement and other architectural elements are used to (a) create visually interesting
       facades, (b) avoid large areas ofblank facades, and (c) provide a human scale and details.
       Uses that may qualifu for this reduction may include warehouses and uses which lend
       themselves to a more residential character, i.e., residential care facilities and hotels/motels.
       This provision may also be applied to portions ofbuildings with three street liontages to
       accommodate kitchens, restrooms and other utility areas.

H. Reserved.
I.   Screening. Trash collection and recycling areas, service areas, mechanical equipment and
ubi|rcl loading.i 'ck. ii:,.r3 shall be screened on all sides so that no portion of such areas are
visible lrom major transportation thoroughfares and adjacent properties. Required screening may
include new and existing plantings, walls, fences, screen panels, doors, topographic changes,
buildings, horizontal separation, or any combination thereof.

       1. For nonresidential and mixed-use structures, all roof-mounted mechanical and
       electrical equipment, communication antennas or dishes shall be screened from the view of
       a pedestrian at the far side ofadjoining right-of-way or one hundred feet from the front
       property line, whichever is less, or designed and/or located as part ofthe overall
       architectural design.

       2. For residential structures, roof-top mechanical equipment, vents, flues, fans and other
       pieces ofequipment shall be screened and/or organized to leave sloped roofs as simple and
       uncluttered as possible, or, where roofs are flat, to be screened from view ofa pedestrian at
       the far side ofthe adjoining right-of-way or one hundred feet from the front property line,
       whichever is [ess. Where such appurtenances are visible, they shall be painted a color that
       matches the roof color or other architectural features so that their visual impact is
       minimized.

       3. Refuse containers shall be screened from view on all sides. Screen walls and fences
       shall be one foot higher than the object to be screened. An opaque gate shall be included
       ra here required to complete screening.
   Midvale Municipal Code                                                                       Pagc 32119
   Chaptet l7-7-9.12.2THE JUNCTION AT MIDVALE
   ZONI]




    4. kr.rJi+6Jt+c.k; Oll-stlcr:1 loatlin:.1 lrlc:rs and/or service areas shall be located to the side
    or rear ofbuildings. Where they are directly visible from streets and nearby residential
    buildings, they shall be screened by walls at least eight feet high, or densely and
    continuously massed landscaping that maintains its screening capabilities in the winter.
    Raised planters, berms or other landforms may also be used in conjunction with landscaping
    or walls. A combination ofdense, continuous landscaping and walls may allow the use of
    lower walls, but no lower than four feet high from finished grade. (Ord. 2019-06 $ 1 (Att. B)
    (part); Ord. 2016-15 $ 1 (Att. A) (part); Ord. 2012-10 $ 1 (Att. A); Ord. 8/7/20070-10 $ 1
    (Exh. A) (part),2007)

17 -7 -9.12.2.8 RetaiUoffice/flex   and mixed-use landscaping.

    The following landscaping standards apply to all new development in the retail/office/flex
    and mixed-use land use areas:

      A.   Required Landscaping. The applicant shall professionally landscape the lot, according
     to an approved landscape plan, as a condition precedent to receiving a certificate of
     occupancy for all commercial uses. The community development director shall evaluate
     landscape plans lor all permitted uses. The planning commission shall evaluate landscape
     plans for conditional uses. Landscape plan approval is a condition precedent to issuance of
     a buitding permit for the parcel. All landscaping shall be in place prior to issuance ofa
     certificate ofoccupancy, unless seasonal conditions make installation unfeasible, in which
     case the applicant shall provide cash security or its approved altemative lor all landscaping
     yet to be completed, which landscaping shall be installed by the lollowing May 31st.

      1. Physical Comections. Each lot shall have a system olpedestrian walkways and
      sidewalks that provide connections between the building entrances, neighboring building
      entrances, sidewalks, parking areas, open space and public trails.

     2. Minimum Landscaped Area. Thirteen percent ofthe interior area ofeach
     retail/office/flex or mixed-use lot shall be developed as landscaped setbacks, courtyards,
     plazas, open space or walkways. The interior area does not include the landscaped
     setback(s) from the edge ofthe public right(s)-of-way as described in subsection (A)(3) of
     this section.

      3. Landscaped Setback from Edge ofPublic Right-of-Way. The landscaped setback fiom
      the edge of Bingham Junction Boulevard shall be fifty feet from the back ofthe curb; from
      7200 South 700 West, Junction View Drive, FlSmidth Drive and other interior roads the
      landscaped setback shall be thirty feet. This setback shall not be in addition to the
      dedicated open space parcels along 7200 South identified as Parcels F, G, and I on the
      adopted Bingham Junction Open Space Exhibit. Courtyard or plaza areas may encroach
      into the front setback, provided they are integrated with the overall theme ofthe landscape
      setback (Figure 2). All setbacks that incorporate linear trails and amenities as part ofthe
Midvale Municipal Code                                                                  Page 33/49
Chaptet 17 -7 -9.12.2 T HE JUNCTION AT MIDVALE
ZONE

  overall trails master plan shall be provided with an easement for public use to be recorded
  against the property.

  4. Screening. Maintenance buildings, trash collection and recycling areas, storage and
  service areas, mechanical equipment and ()l-i'-itr'*li loading Jticl: a1!'i\shall not be
  permitted in the front setback ofany building and shall be located behind the main building
  structure, or completely screened from public view.

  5. Building Foundation Landscaping. The ground adjacent to the building foundation
  must be landscaped if it is visible from public vantage points.

  6. Jordan River Landscaped Setback. The minimum landscaped setback from the Jordan
  River shall be no less than sixty-five feet from the top of bank or the one-hundred-year
  flood plain, whichever is greater. Integration ofan eight-foot-wide asphalt pedestrian path
  running parallel to the river shall be provided within this setback. To provide public access
  to the Jordan River from the east, pedestrian pathways shall be provided either through or
  around the perimeter ofthe parcel being developed. All setbacks that incorporate linear
  trails and amenities as part ofthe overall trails master plan shall be provided with an
  easement for public use to be recorded against the properry.

  7. Residential Buffer. A landscaped buffer shall be required to separate residential uses
  from commercial and industrial uses as follows:

       a. Single Family Detached Landscaped Buffer Area. The landscape buft-er area must
       be a minimum ofthirty feet wide to provide adequate screening, bufflering, and
       separation ofthese uses from single family detached residential uses. The landscape
       treatment should use a combination ofdistance and low level screening to separate the
       uses to soften the visual impact olthe commercial or industrial use. The thirty-foot
       buffer area may be shared between adjoining properties, upon adequate proofof
       reciprocal easements to preserve and maintain the buffer area. The landscaped buffer
       area shall include a minimum of one tree for every two hundred fifty square I'eet.


        b. Medium and High Density Residential Buffer Area. When a medium or high
        density residential structure is located adjacent to a single-use commercial or
        industrial structure/use and an aspect ofthe commercial or industrial use has a
        negative visual impact (i.e., outdoor storage, loading bays, etc.) on the residential
        structure, the plan-ning commission shall require the developer to create a screening
        plan for their approval that mitigates the visual impact(s) in question.

        c. Fully SighrObscuring Fence. The planning commission may require complete
        visual separation from residential uses if it determines that complete screening is
        necessary to protect abutting uses, and the required landscaped buffer is not practical.
        Such fence must be a minimum of six feet high (up to eight feet if warranted and
        approved by the planning commission) and completely sight-obscuring. Fences may
        be ofwood, metal, bricks, masonry or other permanent materials.
Midvale Municipalcode                                                                  Pagc 34/49
Chapter l7-7-9.12.2THE JUNCTION AT MIDVAt,ti
ZONE

  8.  Plant Materials. Areas requiring landscaping shall be planted with substantial live plant
  material including: plants, shrubs, trees, sod, etc., for the purpose ofbuffering, screening,
  and improving the visual quality ofthe site.

       a. Types of Vegetation. At least twenty-five percent of trees and shrubs must be
       evergreen. Up to twenty-five percent ofthe landscape area can include specialty
       paving, street fumiture, and outdoor seating areas. Trees that are planted in the park
       strip shall meet the specifications described in the street tree selection guide of
       Midvale City.

       b. Minimum Number of Trees. A minimum of one tree for every four hundred
       square feet of landscaping is required for all landscaped areas for which street tree
       requirements do not apply.

       c    Size ofTrees. The following standards apply to the use ofplant and tree material:

             i. Deciduous Trees. All deciduous trees shall have a minimum caliper size of
            two inches.

             ii, Ornamental Trees. All omamental trees shall have a minimum caliper size of
             one and one-hall inches.

             lll.    Evergreen Trees. All evergreen trees shall have a minimum height of six
             l'eet


  9. See Section 17-7-9.5 for funher landscaping standards.
                                                                                  Pagc 35/49


Uilli: ii]ir;liilr';ffi ruNCrroN Ar MIDvALE
ZOND
                                                        I)




                                                    >.L               i
                                                    +



                                      \




                                                             ,
                                          I




                                                                     ,J
                                          I


                                                    L            I
                                                                      I
                                                                      I



                                                         t
                                                         V
                               Figure 1
                                              tlt                         <Jll,


                                I
                                 t
                                    PoCrio
                        Figure 2
   Midvale Municipal Code                                                                l'agc l6/,19
   Chaptet l'7 -7 -9. 12.2' l l l E J UNCTION AT M IDVALE
   ZONE




                                                            .'l
                                                             .t




                                                      I




                          Figure 3

(Ord. 2016-15 $ I (Att. A) (parr); Ord. 2011-06 $ I (Att. A) (part): Ord,.8/7/20070- 10 $ I (Exh.
A) (part),2007)

l7 -7 -9.12.2.9 Trails and open space.


[No changes in this section.]


l7-7 -9.12.2.10 Streets and alleys.

[No changes in this section.]

17-7-9.12.2.11 Parking standards.

[No changes in this section.]

l7 -7 -9.12.2.12 Live/work units.

[No changes in this section.]

l7 -7 -9,12.2.13 Thematic elements.

fNo changes in this section.l

l7-7-9.12.2.14 Related provisions.

[No changes in this section.]
    Midvale Municipal Code                                                            Page 37149
    Chaptet l7-'l-9.12.2 IHE JUNCTION AT MIDVALE
    ZONE

                                        Attachment D:
                                      Chapter 17-7-9.12.3
                                 SILVER REFINERY OVERLAY

Sections:
17 -7 -9.12.3.1   Purpose.
17-7-9.12.3.2    Boundary.
t7-7-9.12.3.3    Large scale master plan requirement.
17-7 -9.12.3.4   Use.
17-7-9.12.3.5    Single-family residential traditional lot subdivision standards.
17-7-9.12.3.6    Medium density residential development standards for single-family attached
                 and multi-family development.
t7-7  -9.12.3.7  Medium density residential development standards for single-family detached
                 development.
17 -7 -9.t2.3.8  Commercial and mixed-use lot and development standards.
17 -7 -9.12.3.9  Commercial and mixed-use architectural standards.
17 -7 -9.12.3.10  Commercial and mixed-use landscaping.
17 -7 -9.12.3.11  Trails and open space.
17 -7 -9.12.3.12  Streets and alleys.
17 -7 -9.12.3.13  Parking standards.
17 -7 -9.12.3.14  Access management.
17 -7 -9.12.3.15  Utilities.
17-7 -9.12.3.16   Thematic elements.
17 -7 -9.t2.3.17  Conditional use standards of review.
17 -7 -9.12.3.18  Sign standards.
17 -7 -9.12.3.19  Home occupation standards.
t7-7-9.12.3.20 Itinerant merchants.
17 -7 -9.12.3.21  Outdoor advertising.
17-7-9.12.3.22 Related provisions.


17 -7-9.12.3.1 Purpose.


[No changes in this section.]

l7-7-9.12.3.2 Boundary.

[No changes in this section.]

17-7-9.12,3,3 Large scale master plan requirement.

[No changes in this section.]

l7-7-9.12.3.4 Use.

[No changes in this section.]
   Midvale Municipal Codc                                                                  Page 38/49
   Chapter l'7 -'7 -9.12.2 11lE JUNCTION AT MIDVAt,E
   ZOND



l7-7-9.12.3.5 Single-family residential traditional lot subdivision standards.

[No changes in this section.]

l7 -7 -9.12.3.6 Medium density residential development standards for single-family
                attached and multi-family development.

[No changes in this section.]

l7-7-9.12.3,7 Medium density residential development standards for single-family
                 dctached development.

[No changes in this section.]

17-7-9.12.3.8 Commercial and mixed-use lot and development standards.

fNo changes in this section.l

17 -7 -9.12.3.9 Commercial and mixed-use           architectural standards.

All new development must present an attractive, coordinated streetscape. incorporate
architectural and site design elements appropriate to a pedestrian scale and provide for the safety
and convenience ofpedestrians. All new development in the commercial land use areas shall
comply with the lollowing architectural standards:

A. Walls. No more than three materials shall be used for primary wall surfaces.
      l. Materials. Exterior finishes shall be oftraditional, time- and weather-tested techniques
     and shall include a substantial use ofbrick, cultured brick, natural or cultured stone, prairie
     stone, and/or wood or synthetic wood products. Glazing may be used as a primary exterior
     material when glazing is proposed as a major architectural design element or look for a
     project area consisting olat least two buildings and including all ofthe buildings that are
     separated by a major feature such as a linear park, collector street, or similar element that
     sets an area apart. Retaining and screening walls sha be of materials complementary to the
     building's materials.

     2. Stucco. The use of stucco, synthetic stucco and EIFS should be limited and shall not
     exceed lifty percent ofany elevation. The planning commission may determine, on a case-
     by-case basis, that the architectural detail and excellence of a structure is such that the use
     of stucco in excess of this standard is warranted.

     3. Other Architectural Materials/Finishes. Architectural pre-cast concrete, architecturally
     treated concrete masonry units, and architectural metals should be used primarily to
     provide architectural detail and reliel-. Fiberglass and/or metal panels may be used in
     relatively smalI quantities. The planning commission may allow other materials and
   Midvale Municipal Code                                                                   Page 39/49
   Chaptet 11-7-9.12.2THE JUNCTION AT MIDVALE
   ZONE

     material quantities that it finds add to the architectural excellence of the structure and
     proj ect.


     4. Prohibited Materials. Vinyl and aluminum siding products are prohibited as wall
     materials.

     5. Base Materials. Each structure shall have a base or lbundation material ofbrick,
     cultured brick, natural or cultured stone. This base or foundation shall be a minimum
     height ofone-third the overall height ofthe structue. The base or foundation shall extend
     beyond the plane olthe wall above it, creating a larger mass at the base ofthe building.
     The planning commission may allow for minor deviations to allow this base to terminate at
     visual breaks in the architecture or when the onethird base height overshadows the rest of
     the building architecture, specifically in single-story structures. The planning commission
     may approve altemative materials that are the qualitative equivalent ofbrick, cultured
     brick, natural or cultured stone, provided the altemative material conveys a sense ofquality
     and detail that lends itsellto the overall building design, ages gracefully and requires little
     maintenance.

     6. Brick and Rock Pattem. Ledge stone, uncoursed ledge rock, random or coursed Ashlar
     Flemish bond, English bond, common bond, running bond or drystack pattems shall be
     used for finished brick, rock and stone work. Herringbone, basket weave, vertical stack,
     stack bond, uncoursed roughly squared, and other vertical, irregular, or diagonal masonry
     patterns or vertical, non-altemating bond courses may be used only as an accent. Other
     masonry pattems shall not be used on vertical surfaces except as expressly authorized by
     the planning commission.

     7. Color Scheme. Buildings shall use a cohesive palette ofcolors which complement
     nearby buildings. Without limiting the use of color, large areas of walls shall be subdued in
     color and not reflective. Intense colors should be used as accent only.

     8. Design Consistency. All exposed sides ofa building shall be designed with the same
     level ofcare, quality and integrity. Buildings should be attractive and visually engaging
     from all exposed sides.

B. Roofs. Roof lines and shapes shall be consistent with the design and structure of the
building, and should be consistent with the roof lines ofadjacent buildings. Roof forms should
reflect the facade articulation and building massing, as opposed to a single-mass roofover an
articulated facade.

     1. Pitched roofs. Where pitched roofs are used the following standards shall apply
           a. All the roofs and secondary roofs of a building shall be constructed of the same
           material. All metal roofs must be ofa subdued color. Painted roof shingles are
           prohibited.
   Midvalc Municipal Code                                                                   Page 40/49
   Chapter |7-7-9.I2.2 Tl IFI .ILJNCI ION Al MIDVALE
   ZONE

           b. Slopes ofroofs shall be ofequal pitch ifa gable or hip roofis employed. Roof
           forms shall be designed in ways and/or used in combinations to break up large,
           continuous building forms, particularly for structures that are wider than they are tall.
           Long unbroken ridgelines are prohibited.

     2. Parapets. Parapets shall be provided to articulate flat roofs and hide roof-mounted
     equipment. The following standards shall apply:

           a. Parapets shall have strong comice detailing to provide interest and scale.
           b. Long unbroken parapets, particularly for buildings that are wider than they are
           tall, are prohibited.

     3. Rooftop mechanical equipment shalt be hidden from view from the adjoining street
     with either a parapet or a penthouse. Penthouses shall utilize materials, colors and form
     similar to that of the building.

C. Fences, Hedges, and Walls. Fences, hedges and walls should be used on a limited basis, and
only where determined necessary to screen or buffer the incompatible or unsightly elements ofa
project such as r!ll-!t rcct loading areas and trash pick-up areas, among others, or as required for
specific athletic facilities. The following standards apply to new development olfences, hedges
and walls:

      l. Required Setbacks. A fence, hedge, wall, column, pier, post, or any similar structure or
     any combination ofsuch structures is permitted in the required setback ofa zone district      if
     it meets the following conditions:

           a. All fences and walls meet the requirements of Title 15 of this code, Buildings and
           Construction;

           b. No fence, hedge, or wall extends beyond or across a property line without a
           recorded agreement with the abutting property owner;

           c. Reserved:
           d. Only one fence or wall shall be allowed per property line. Double fences, walls or
           combination thereof are prohibited; and

           e. No barbed wire or other sharp, pointed, or electrically charged f'ence may be
           erected or maintained, except a temporary fence on a construction site to protect the
           property during the period ofconstruction may be topped with barbed wire where the
           barbed wire is not less than eight feet above the ground and does not extend more than
           two feet above the temporary fence.
   Midvale Municipal Codc                                                                   Page 4ll49
   Chapter l7-1-9.12.2'l lIE JUNCTION AT MIDVALE
   ZONE

     2. Height. No fence structures may exceed seven feet in height except as needed for
     screening purposes in accordance with subsection (I) ofthis section. Fence height shall be
     measured as follows:

          a. In a required yard abutting a street, the total effective height above the finished
          grade measured on the side nearest the street;

          b. In any other required yard, the total effective height above the finished grade
          measured on the side nearest the abutting property;

          c. On a property line, measured from the finished grade of either side when the
          abutting property owners are in agreement; and

          d. A temporary fence on a construction site may be as high as required to protect the
          property during the period of construction.

     3.  Athletic Facilities. Fencing around athletic facilities, including, without limitation,
     tennis courts, may be fourteen f'eet in height so long as all portions above six feet are
     constructed with at least fifty percent non-opaque materials.

     4. Conformance with This Section. No person shall construct, alter, or maintain a f'ence,
     hedge, wall, column, pier, post, or any similar structure or any combination of such
     structures except in conformance with all ofthe requirements of this section.

D. Reserved.
E. Miscellaneous. Security devices shall have materials and colors that complement the
building's architecture and building materials. Accessory structures shall be architecturally
compatible with the primary development. Satellite dishes shall not be placed in view tiom the
front yards.

F. Exterior Structure. All exterior walls of all structures shall be constructed in compliance
with the following:

     1. Finishes. All buildings shall use one or more of the following durable materials as
     significant finish: architectural pre-cast concrete, architecturally treated concrete masonry
     units, brick cladding, natural and cast stone, prairie stone, architectural metals, and glazing.
     Architectural site-cast concrete may be allowed if designed, articulated, and colored for a
     finished appearance on all buildings. At least fifty percent of all buildings visible from a
     major thoroughfare shall be composed of brick, stone, architecturally treated CMU,
     archilectural pre-cast concrete and/or glazing.

     2. Quality. High standards for exterior materials, exterior building systems, and their
     application are expected. In particular, the design and application of EIFS or synthetic
     stucco is expected to be of a high enough quality to allow for crisp detailing and substantial
     relief. The wall area from finished grade to where the use ofEIFS begins shall be clad by a
Midvale Municipal Code                                                               Prgo 42l,19
Chaptet 1'/-7-9.12.2THE JUNCTION AT MIDVALE
ZONE

  hard, durable material such as brick, stone, architectural pre-cast concrete, or
  architecturally treated concrete masoffy units.

  3. Form Variations. Buitdings shall provide vadation in the form offacades that adjoin
  streets. Street-facing facades shall make use ofat least two ofthe following variations.
  Secondary facades shall make use ofat least one ofthe following variations. Variations
  should result from significant dimensional changes in plane, color or detail as
  accomplished by such devices as:

       a.   Protruding bays or columns:

       b. Recessed entries;
       c.   Upper level step-backs;

       d.   Arcades;

       e.   Off-sets, projections and shifts in the general plane ofthe facade;

       f.   Changes in materials or color;

            Bay windows;

       h.   Vestibules;

            Porches;

       j. Balconies;
       k. Exterior shading devices:
       l. Non-retractable canopies or awnings:
       m.    Projecting comices;

       n    Eaves, or

       o. Any other variation the planning commission may approve that meets the intent
       of this section.

  4. Window Treatments. Street-facing facades shall include at least two of the following
  window treatments with at least one window treatment per window. All other facades shall
  utilize at least one of the following window treatments per window. Treatments may
  include:
Midvale Municipal Code                                                                Pagc 43149
Chapter l7-7-9.12.2TH8 JUNCTION AT MIDVALE
ZONE

        a    Varying the size and/or style of windows;

        b    Window sills;

        c    Window grids;

        d. Window triml
        e.   Window headers;

        f. Window railing;
        g. Recessed windows;
        h. Arcades; or
        i. Any other treatment the planning commission may approve that meets the intent
        of this section.

  5. Architectural Treatments. Street-facing facades shall include at least two ofthe
  following architectural treatments. All other facades shall include at least one of the
  following architectural treatments. Treatments that add detail, character, and reduce the
  appearance of massive blank walls may include:

        a.   Omamental details such as quoins, knee braces and exposed joists;

        b. A change of material applied to at least twenty percent ofthe facade;
             A change ofcolor applied to at least twenty percent ofthe facade;

        d    Decorative parapetsl

        e.   Reveals:

        f.   Pilasters;

             Architectural banding or belt courses;

        h.   Comice other than that at the top of the building:

             Rounded design at street comers;

       j. A change of pattem applied to at least twenty percent of the flacade;
        k. A distinguished upper floor for buildings with at least four floors; or
Midvale Municipal Code                                                                    Page 44149
Chaptet 17-7-9.12.2T HE JUNCTION AT MIDVALE
ZONE

       I.  Any other treatment the planning commission may approve that meets the intent
       of this section. Primary public entry(s) shall be architecturally emphasized so that
       pedestrians can easily find them.

  6. Storefronts. Awnings, canopies, arcades or other architectural t'eatures should be used
  to reduce glare on storefront glass and to shelter the pedestrians standing near the
  storefront. Cantilever awnings and canopies from the building face so as to keep sidewalks
  as clear and unobstructed as possible. The planning commission may permit limited use of
  supporting columns as part of a thematic design or corporate standard so long as the
  columns do not hinder pedestrian traffic or access.

  7. Drive-Through Windows. Drive-through windows shall be located at the side or rear
  ofbuildings. While not desirable, a drive aisle may be located between the building and the
  street so long as its width is minimized, any pedestrian crossings of it are clearly delineated
  with special paving treatments, no parking spaces occur off of it and a low wall, railing
  with landscaping, or continuous hedge at least three feet high between stacked cars and the
  sidewalk.

  8. Opaque (solid) storefront security closures (rolling doors, etc.) are not allowed.
  9. Weather Protection. Weather protection features such as awnings, canopies, doors
  inset by at least three feet, or arcades shall be provided at all customer entrances.

 10. Entryways. Each large retail building on a site shall have clearly defined, highly
 visible customer entrances featuring a combination of several elements such as:

       a      Canopies. awnings or porticos:

       b      Projecting eaves and comices:

              Recesses/projections of wall surfaces;

       d      Arcades

       e.     Raised parapets over the door;

       f.     Peaked roof forms;

              Lighting features;

       h.     Entry plazas;

            Display windows;
    Midvale Municipal Code                                                                         Page 45/49
    Chaptct t7-7-9.12.2THE JUNCTION AT MIDVALE
    ZONE

             j, Architectural details such as masonry tile work and moldings which are integrated
             into the building structure and design;

             k. Integral planters or wing walls that incorporate landscaping;
             l. Signs integrated with the building architecture.
      I l.  Secondary Facades. Building facades that face the street but do not have pedestrian
      entries shall be composed ofhigh quality materials such as brick or stone, and shall provide
      variety and interest in the facade through the introduction ofsuch elements as pilasters,
      recessed or protruding bays, changes in materials and/or colors, building lighting elements,
      display windows with products or product graphics, transparent windows or clerestories,
      and well-designed signs and graphics.

G. Openings. The tbllowing standards apply to openings ofall structures
      l. Entry Doors. Entry doors must be covered by a roofand must be a primary element of
      the front of the structure.

      2. Windows. Bay windows shall have from three to five sides
      3.   Comer Buildings. Special attention shall be given to comer buildings that are highly
      visible, that may serve as landmarks and provide a sense ofenclosure at intersections.
      Special attention can be achieved by architecture, landscape, and public place.

      4. Minimum Opening Area. Not less than twenty-five percent of any street-facing
      building facade shall be made up of window or door areas. Not less than fifteen percent of
      any other building f'ace on a third or higher story shall be made up of windows, balconies
      or other opening areas unless an adjacent building within twenty feet ofthat side face
      obscures the majority of that side face from public view. The planning commission may
      allow for a reduction to the minimum opening requirement if the applicant can demonstrate
      the building floor plan(s) required by the use cannot effectively accommodate the
      requirement and olher architectural elements are used to (a) create visually interesting
      facades, (b) avoid large areas ofblank facades, and (c) provide a human scale and details.
      Uses that may qualifu for this reduction may include warehouses and uses which lend
      themselves to a more residential character, i.e., residential care facilities and hotels/motels.
      This provision may also be applied to portions ofbuildings with three street frontages to
      accommodate kitchens. restrooms and other utility areas.

H. Reserved.
I. Screening. Trash collection and recycling areas, service areas. mechanical equipment and
Lr l ll.:1r'e!'i loading .l,,. k. r-.'ris shall be screened on all sides so that no portion of such areas are

visible from major transpo(ation thoroughfares and adjacent properties. Required screening may
include new and existing plantings, walls, fences, screen panels, doors, topographic changes,
buildings, horizontal separation, or any combination thereof.
    Midvale Municipal Code                                                                      Pagr 4614.)
    Chaptar 1,7-7-9.12.2T I'lE JUNCTION AT MIDVALE
    ZONE


         L For nonresidential and mixed-use structures, all roof-mounted mechanical and
         electrical equipment, communication anteffras or dishes shall be screened from the view of
         a pedestrian at the far side ofadjoining right-of-way or one hundred feet from the front
         property line, whichever is less, or designed and/or located as part ofthe overall
         architectural design.

         2. For residential structures, roof-top mechanical equipment, vents, flues, fans and other
         pieces ofequipment shall be screened and/or organized to leave sloped roofs as simple and
         uncluttered as possible, or, where roofs are flat, to be screened from view ofa pedestrian at
         the far side ofthe adjoining right-of-way or one hundred feet from the front property line,
         whichever is less. Where such appurtenances are visible, they shall be painted a color that
         matches the roofcolor or other architectural features so that their visual impact is
         minimized.

         3. Refuse containers shall be screened from view on all sides. Screen walls and f'ences
         shall be one foot higher than the object to be screened. An opaque gate shall be included
         where required to complete screening.

         1.                k* Ol'l'-slrect Ioadins arcas and/or service areas shall be located to the side
         or rear ofbuildings. Where they are directly visible from streets and nearby residential
         buildings, they shall be screened by walls at least eight feet high, or densely and
         continuously massed landscaping that maintains its screening capabilities in the winter.
         Raised planters, berms or other landforms may also be used in conjunction with
         landscaping or walls. A combination ofdense, continuous landscaping and walls may allow
         the use oilower walls, but no lower than lour feet high from finished grade.

17 -7 -9.12.3,10 Commercial and mixed-use landscaping.


The following landscaping standards apply to all new development in the commercial land use
areas:

A. Required Landscaping. The applicant shall professionally landscape the lot, according to an
approved landscape plan, as a condition precedent to receiving a certificate ofoccupancy for all
commercial uses. The community development director shall evaluate landscape plans for all
permitted uses. The planning commission shall evaluate landscape plans for conditional uses.
Landscape plan approval is a condition precedent to issuance ofa building permit for the parcel.
All landscaping shall be in place prior to issuance ofa certificate ofoccupancy, unless seasonal
conditions make installation unfeasible, in which case the applicant shall provide cash security or
its approved altemative for all landscaping yet to be completed, which landscaping shall be
installed by the following May 3 I st.

         l.   Physical Connections. Each lot shall have a system ofpedestrian walkways and
         sidewalks that provide connections between the building entrances, neighboring buitding
         entrances, sidewalks, parking areas, open space and public trails.
Midvale Municipal Code                                                                Page 41149
Chapter l7-'7-9.12.2T IIE JUNCTION AT MIDVALE
ZONE

  2. Minimum Landscaped Area. Thirteen percent of the interior area of each commercial
  or mixed-use lot shall be developed as landscaped setbacks, courtyards, plazas, open space
  or walkways.

  3. Landscaped Setback from Edge ofPublic Right-of-Way. The minimum landscaped
  setback from the edge of 7800 South, Holden Street and other interior roads shall be thirty
  feet from the back ofthe curb. All setbacks that incorporate linear trails and amenities as
  part ofan overall trails plan shatl be provided with an easement for public use to be
  recorded against the property.

  4. Screening. Maintenance buildings, trash collection and recycling areas, storage and
  service areas, mechanical equipment and oll'-strcct loading tleeks-arcas shall not be
  permitted in the front setback of any building and shall be located behind the main building
  structure, or completely screened from public view.

  5. Building Foundation Landscaping. The ground adjacent to the buitding foundation
  must be landscaped if it is visible tiom public vantage points.

  6. Residential Buffer. A landscaped buffer shall be required to separate residential uses
  from commercial uses as follows:

       a. Single-Family Detached Landscaped Buffer Area. The landscape buffer area must
       be a minimum olthirty feet wide to provide adequate screening, buffering, and
       separation ofthese uses from single-family detached residential uses. The landscape
       treatment should use a combination ofdistance and low level screening to separate the
       uses to soften the visual impact of the commercial or industrial use. The thirty-fbot
       bufler area may be shared between adjoining properties, upon adequate proofof
       reciprocal easements to preserve and maintain the buffer area. The landscaped buffer
       area shall include a minimum ofone tree lor every two hundred fifty square feet.


       b. Medium Density Residential Buffer Area. When a medium density residential
       structure is located adjacent to a single-use commercial structure/use and an aspect of
       the commercial use has a negative visual impact (i.e., outdoor storage, loading bays,
       etc.) on the residential structure, the planning commission shall require the developer
       to create a screening plan for their approval that mitigates the visual impact(s) in
       question.

       c. Fully Sight-Obscuring Fence. The planning commission may require complete
       visual separation from residential uses if it determines that complete screening is
       necessary to protect abutting uses, and the required landscaped buffer is not practical.
       In such instances, the planning commission shall determine the appropriate width and
       type oflandscaping to be used in conjunction with a completely sight-obscuring fence
       ofat least six feet high (up to eight feet if wananted and approved by the planning
       commission). Fences may be of wood, metal, bricks, masomy or other permanent
       materials.
    Midvale Municipal Code                                                                   Page 48/49
    Chapter l7-7-9.12.2 THE JUNCTION AT MIDVALE
    ZONE

        7.  Plant Materials. Areas requiring landscaping shall be planted with substantial live plant
        material including: plants, shrubs, trees, sod, etc., for the purpose ofbuffering, screening,
        and improving the visual quality ofthe site.

             a. Types ofVegetation. At least twenty-five percent oftrees and shrubs must be
             evergreen. Up to twenty-five percent ofthe landscape area can include specialty
             paving, street fumiture, and outdoor seating areas. Trees that are planted in the park
             strip shall meet the specifications described in the street tree selection guide of
             Midvale City.

             b. Minimum Number of Trees. A minimum of one tree for every four hundred
             square feet of landscaping is required for all landscaped areas for which street tree
             requirements do not apply.

             c   Size ofTrees. The following standards apply to the use ofplant and tree material:

                  i. Deciduous Trees. All deciduous trees shall have a minimum caliper size of
                  two inches.

                  ii. Omamental Trees. All omamental trees shall have a minimum caliper size of
                  one and one-half inches.

                  lll. Evergreen Trees. All evergreen trees shall have a minimum height of six
                  feet.

        8. See Section l7-7-9.5 for further landscaping standards. (Ord. 2016-15 $ I (Att. A)
        (part); Ord. 2013-04 $ 1 (Att. A) (part))

17 -7 -9.12.3.11   Trails and open space.

[No changes in this section.]

17 -7   -9.12.3.12 Streets and allevs.

fNo changes in this section.l

17 -7 -9.12.3.13    Parking standards.

[No changes in this section.]

17-7-9.12.3.14 Access management.

[No changes in this section.]
   Midvale MunicipalCode                                  l)age 49/49
   Chapter 11-1-9.12.2THE JUNCTION AT MIDVALE
   ZONE



17-7 -9.12.3.15 Utilities.


[No changes in this section.]

17 -7 -9.12.3.16   Thematic elements.

[No changes in this section.]

17 -7 -9.12.3.17   Conditional use standards of review.

[No changes in this section.]

l7 -7-9.12.3.18 Sign standards.

[No changes in this section.]

17-7 -9.12.3.19 Home occupation standards.


[No changes in this section.]

17-7-9.12.3.20 Itinerant merchants.

[No changes in this section.]

l7 -7-9.12.3.21 Outdoor advertising.


[No changes in this section.]

17 -7 -9.12.3.22   Related provisions.

[No changes in this section.]
