                                  MIDVALE CITY, UTAH
                                 ORDINANCE NO. 2023-0-03

 AN ORDINANCE AMENDIN(; MIDVALE MUNICIPAL CODE CHAPTER 8.TO.O3O &
         8.I0.060 - JORDAN BLUFFS INSTITUTIONAL CONTROLS ORDINANCE

        WHEREAS, the institutional controls ordinance fbr Jordan Blufft are based upon the
Institutional Control Prooess Plan fbr the Sharon Steel Site adopted on June 26, 2007; and

       WHEREAS, the Jordan Blufls Institutional Controls Ordinance has been prepared as a
mechanism to assure that consistent and effective inspection and maintenance and
enfbrcement activities are occurring and will occur in the future throughout the Jordan BlufT
property, and

         WHEREAS, the institutional controls ordinance fbr Bingham Junction, Jordan Bluffs
and designated rights-of-way sets florth the requirements and procedures for the public
institutional controls for the redevelopment and reuse of the Bingham Junction and Jordan
Blutl's properties; and

         WHEREAS, the City desires to f'urther define the use of Propedy Owners
Associations (POA) and a Project Association, including their t'unction and responsibilities for
institutional control requirements, within the Jordan Blulls Institutional Controls Ordinance;
and

      WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah, held a public meeting regarding the
amendment of Chapter 8.10.030 and 8.10.060 of the Midvale Municipal Code on February 7,
2023: and

        WHEREAS, the City Council found the proposed amendments appropriate in
t-urthering the goals and policies of Midvale City.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah,
as fbllows:

                '1.
      Section    Chapter 8.10.030 and Chapter 8.10.060 of the Midvale Municipal Code is
amended as provided in the following attachment:

       Attachment A: Chapter 8. 10.030 and Chapter 8. 10.060 Jordan Bluffs Institutional
       Controls Ordinance

        Section 2. Ifany part ofthis ordinance or its application to any person or
circumstances is, for any reason, determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
unconstitutional or invalid, such judgment shall not af'f'ect. impair, or invalidate the remainder
of this ordinance or its application to other persons and circumstances. Such determination is
limited to the language identifled by the court as being unconstitutional or invalid and the
persons and circumstances directly involved in the controversy in which such judgment is
rendered. It is hereby declared to be the intent olthe City Council that this section would have
been adopted ifsuch unconstitulional or invalid language had not been included.
         Section 3. This ordinance is ef'fective upon publication in accordance with Section 10-3-
         7l I ofthe Utah Code.




         APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 7rh day of February 2023.


                                                        l,n%",%-
                                                        Marcus Stevenson. Mayor
                           Y SIA /6.
                     a!
ISEAL]                                                  Voting                "Aye"        ''Nay"
                 o                      a
                                        t               Quinn Sperry              \/'
                 =*       rurv t, t9d
                                                        Paul Glover                1,,'
                                                        Heidi Robinson
                             RAlE                       Bryant Brown              t'
                                                        Dustin Gettel



 TTES 'f


                               I

Ro   L.                   MMC
Ci   Recorder

Published this       : day of February. 2023. on the Utah Public Notice Website
Attdchm ollt A

8.10.030 Definitions.
Z. "SMP" means the site rnodifiea+ienmanasement plan relating to the Jordan Bluffs property, dated l;@
3ee4oqqbel.}1.zou.

8.10.060 Jordan Bluffs West-{overs and materials management.
A. Site plan approval as required by Section l7-7-3 and regulated by Section l7-7-10 ofthe Midvale Ciry zoning
ordinance and Title 16. Subdivisions. shall be obtained before initial site development, future redevelopment or
change in land use. Applications shall be made available through the city community and economic development
department. In conjunction with the submittal ofthe preliminary site plan application, the applicant shall submit
documentation that shall include an attestation that the applicant is aware ofthe current site condition and will
comply with all institutional controls. All applicants must retain, at their sole cost, a special inspector as defined in
Section 8. 10.030(BB). Applicant subminals and requirements under the site plan approval process are summarized
in this section, which are in addition to and in conjunction with the requirements identified in Sections l7-7-3 and
 l7-7-10 ofthe Midvale City zoning ordinance.

     l. 'the applicant shall submit a plan illustrating the proposed construction and development. Preliminary and
    final site plans for development shall be submitted for review and approval. Preliminary and final development
    plans shall specify the amount ofexisting and proposed soil cover over the cap as well as any proposed
    penetrations or alterations ofthe cap. Any proposal which includes penetrations or alterations ofthe cap must
    include detailed plans for repairing the cap in accordance with the SMP or alternate procedurcs apDrevcd b} 1hc
    9!1r.

    2. Grading and drainage plans are required and shall specifically assure the protection ofsoil covers fronr
    erosion over the cap membranes and provide adequate drainage to prevent accumulation ofwater on the cap.

    3. Alterations to the existing operations and maintenance plan may be proposed by the applicant, the city or
    other party. The EPA and the UDEQ shall consider alterations to assure the proposed development site will be
    maintained in a manner which shall preserye the effectiveness ofthe cap.

    4. An air qualily monitoring and dust suppression p)an shall be provided. The plan must ensure that National
    Arnbient Air Quality Standards and state and local air quality requirements are met for site contarninants at the
    boundary between the construction area and the developed areas. The applicant may request a waiver ofthe air
    monitoring requirements by submitting relevant data demonstrating compliance wilh all air quality standards
    under similar circumstances (similar weather conditions, construction operations, site materials. etc.).

B. lfany intrusive exploratory activities (such as excayations, borings, CPT soundings) or foundations (including
piles or drilled shafts) are proposed for the cap area at depths that penetrate the cap, approval must firsl be oblained
ftom the city. The request for approval must includ€ a detailed description ofthe proposed exploration or
construction activity as well as the mechanism(s) that will be used to prevent contamination ofthe aquifer and
release ofcontaminated material. In addition. the plan shall be in conformance with the accepted SMP. The request
must be approved by the city of Midvale prior to implementation of the work.

C. A road cut permil shall be required for any work in the public right-of-way, per Chapter 12.12 of the Midvale
City Code.

D. All propeny within the Jordan Bluffs West property will be included within one oFnrore-property owners'
lis.or iut i() r)                                      Ilr.     Proiect Association will be established by the owner
or authorized representative prior to subdivision plat approval for the Jordan Bluffs !!51property. Membership in
aey and+li POAsthe Proiect Association is a condition of deyelopment on the Jordan Bluffs llblproperty. Th€-
                                                                           frh Pro ect Association

    l. E\ceDt for multi-familv residential proDerties in wh ch a dwelline unit is individually owned {-MFlO") and
    single-t'amily residential DroDerties, the landos'ner is primarilv res pon:ihle li)r
    controls for its propertv. This includes. without Iimitat ion. maintenance and reDair of the caD and soil covers
    beneathits DroDerty excludinq anv areas maintained by the Proiect Association. ln the event that the landowner
    elects to create a POA that includes the landowner's          ertv. the POA must be a sub.association ofthe Proiect
    Association. Each POA. ifanv. is orimarilv responsible for compliance v'ith the institutional controls for the
    propertv \l ithin its boundaries. This includes. \a ithout limitation. maintenance and repair ofthe cap (including
    soil covers) beneath lhqproperty within its boundaries- excluding areas requ          to be mainrained bv tlre
    Proiect Association oursuant to 8. 10.060-D-3.

    ?. Single-thmilv residential Dropenies and MFIO DroDerties are reauired to be included in one or more POAs
                  ll be established  the owner                                             tvtston               br the
    Jordan Bluffs West propeny being develooed for sinqle-familv residential or MFIO use. Membership in a POA
    is a condition of development of a sinqle-f'amily or MFIO use on the Jordan Bluffs West property. The POA is
    primarily responsible for compliance with the institutional controls for its property within its boundaries. This
    includes. without limitation. maintenance and reoair ofthe cao (includins soil covers) beneath the DroDerty
    within its boundaries excludinp areas reouired to be maintaincd bv the Proiect Association Dursuant to
    8. 10.060. D.3.


    3. The Project Association is responsible for compliance with the institutional controls for the sloped areas
    alons 7800 South and the Jordan River. wetlands areas. and. unless dedicated to and acceDted by the city or
                        ental en       ks trail                          within the J
    Proiect Association. without limitarion. is resoonsible lbr maintenance and repair ofthe cap (includinq soil
    covers) beneath lhe aforementioned DroDenies. ln the event that the Proiect Association leams that a landowner
    or POA is failine to comolv with the institutional controls for which the landowner or POA is responsible- the
    Proiect Association may enforce comDliance with the institutional controls throush recordins a notice of
    violation. assessinq all costs incurred bv the Proiect Association in enlbrcinq or remediatinq such violatiotr
    ap.ainst the violatine prooerN and landowner or POA. or takins anv other action Dennitted by aDDlicable law.

    4. lfpropenv within the Jordan Bluffs West propeny is dedicated to the citv or another govemmental entity.
    the citv or such soyemmental entitv is resoonsible for comoliance with the institutional controls for orooertv so
    dedicated upon acceptance ofsuch dedication bv the city or sovemmental entity. This includes. without
    limitation. maintenance and renair ofthe cap (including soil covers) beneath said propertv.

     l.l-The city shall make necessary repairs to covers and barriers if the landowner-fQ1\ or PeAProject
    Association fails to do so in a timely or appropriate manner. ln that event, the city shall have the right to recover
    its costs ftom the landowner-PQllL or PeAProjecr Association. as applicable. The city shall also have the right,
    in its sole discretion, to charge the landowner,PQL_elPdsqlg!9qiqlie! a surcharge for the costs of the
    city's work related to the property, in an amount established by ordinance.

E. Reasonable efforts must be used to minimize penetration ofthe cap. Excass soil or tailings generated from
undemeath the cap either during development or after development will be managed in accordance with the
accepted SMP- or alternate procedures approved b_r the cit). (Ord.6126120070-8 S I (Exh. A (pan)))
