                                 ORDINANCE NO. 2023-0-16

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 17-7-8.4(A)(9)(c) OF THE TRANSIT ORIENTED
DEVELOPMENT (TOD) ZONE RELATING TO TOWNHOME DEVELOPMENT IN
THE MIDVALE CITY MUNICIPAL CODE.

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated Sections 10-8-84 and 10-9a-501 through
10-9a-503, Midvale City ("the City") has authority to make and amend any regulation of or
within zoning districts or any other provision of the land use ordinance to promote the prosperity,
improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, convenience, and aesthetics of the
municipality; and

        WHEREAS, on January 2, 2002, the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance, Title 17 of the
Midvale City Municipal Code (the "Code"), became effective and is subject to amendments from
time to time pursuant to Section 17-3-1 the Code; and

         WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 16-04-010 of the Code, the City desires to promote the
protection of public health, life and safety; protect the character and social and economic   •
stability of all parts of the city; protect and preserve the value of land throughout the
municipality; guide public and private policy and action; establish responsible standards; prevent
pollution and degradation of air, streams, and ponds; preserve the natural beauty and topography;
and provide for open spaces through the most effect design and layout of the land;

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 17-1-1 of the Code, the City desires to promote
coordinated development, redevelopment, effective use of land, and site planning; protect and
promote public safety, health, and general welfare by providing adequate light and air, water and
sewage control, police, fire and wetlands protection; and secure economy in governmental
expenditures; and

       WHEREAS, the City desires to amend Title 17-7-8.4(A)(9)(c) of the Transit Oriented
Development (TOD) zone relating to townhome development in the Midvale City Municipal
Code; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on November 8, 2023 , to
review the request for amendments and, after considering all the information received, made a
recommendation to approve the amendment request to the City Council; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on December
6,2023 ; and

       WHEREAS, after taking into consideration citizen testimony, planning analysis, and the
Planning Commission' s recommendation as part of its deliberations, the City Council finds it is
appropriate and within the best interest of the City to make changes to the Code.

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah
as follows:
       Section 1. The following sections of the Midvale City Municipal Code are hereby
       amended as included in the following attachments to this document:

           •   Attachment A: Amending Title 17-7-8.4(A)(9)(c) of the Transit Oriented
               Development (TOD) zone relating to townhome development in the Midvale City
               Municipal Code.

       Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect upon the date of first publication.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this ~               day of "c:el-e-wtb-tw""    , 2023.




                                             Voting by City Council         "Aye"        "Nay"
                                             Quinn Sperry                      ✓
                                             Paul Glover                      ✓
                                             Heidi Robinson                   ✓
Roi Andreason, MMC                           Bryant Brown                     v::::
                                                                               ,_..,.,
City Recorder                                Dustin Gettel

Date of first publication:   _1tw ~ <)0.?8
                                          Attachment A:



17-7-8.4        Medium and high density residential development
                standards.

A. The following development standards apply to new single family attached, single family
detached, and multifamily development in the zone, with the exception of single family
detached residential lot subdivisions (see Section 17-7-8.3):

    9. Characteristics of Housing Product.

        c. Single Family Attached (Townhouse). The development of contiguous townhouses is
        limited to fifty units (i.e., in any single location) and in groupings no larger than eight
        units each . Any additional development over fifty townhouses may be developed so
        long as one third of the total approved units are located on uncontiguous lots, a
        minimum of one hundred fifty feet or three lots apart in all directions and in groupings
        no larger than eight units each. Any townhouse development larger than eight units
        shall provide at least two different unit models. Each unit model shall have at least
        three characteristics that clearly distinguish it from the other townhouse models.
