                                   Exhibit A - Draft Ordinance
                                       ()Rr)INANCE NO. 2023-0-14

            AN" ORDINANCE AIIENDIN(; SECTIONS l7-3-5, I 7-7-9.2.t], t7 -7 -9.t2.3.3, 17-7 -
                                                                                      lI
            l0.l1.3.8, 17-7-10.12.2.L., l7-7-12.1.t1, l7-7-16.5 Ar\-D l7-7- 17.9 ()F 1'l MIDVALI,
                                         CIl'Y MUNICIPAL CODE.
         WIIEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated Sections 10-8-84 and l0-9a-501 through l0-9a-503,
Midvale City C'the City") has authority to make and arnend any regulation of or within zoning districts or any
other provision of the land use ordinance to promote the prosperity, improve the morals, peace and good ordel
comfort, convenience, and aesthetics ofthe rnunicipality; and

       WHEREAS, on January 2, 2002, the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance, Title l7 of the Midvale City
Municipal Code (the "Code"), became effective and is subject to amendments lrom tirne to time pursuant to
Section l7-3-l the Code; and

         WHEREAS, pursuant to Section l7-l -l of the Code, the City desires to promote coordinated
development, redevelopment. effective use of land. and site planning: protect and promote public safety, health.
and general welfare by providing adequate light and air, water and sewage control, police, fire and wetlands
protection; and secure economy in governmental expenditures; and

        WIIEREAS, the City is authorized to enter into development agreelnents with any term the City
considers necessary and appropriate to accornplish the purposes ofthe Municipal Land Use, Development, and
Management Act under Utah Code Annotated Section 10-9a-532; and

        WHEREAS, Utah Code Annotated Section l0-9a-532(2Xd) prohibits rnunicipalities from requiring a
development agreement as a condition for developing land if the municipality's land use regulations establish
all applicable standards for development on the landl and

         WHEREAS, the City desires to amend Sections 17 -3-5,17 -7 -9.2.8,17 -7 -9.12.3.3,17-7- 10.11.3.B, l7-
7-10.12.2.E, 17-7-12.1.8, 17-7-16.5, and l7-7-17.9 to address development agreements and comply with state
law: and

         WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on Septernber 13, 2023, to review the
request for text amendrnents and, after considering all the information received, made a recommendation to
approve the text arnendments to the City Council; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvate City, Utah held a public hearing or(?ka{3 !d:d, 2023; and

          WHEREAS, after taking into consideration citizen testimony, planning analysis, and the Planning
Cornmission's recommendation as part of its deliberations, the City Council finds it is appropriate and within
the best interest of the City to make changes to the Code.

           NOW THEREFORE, BE lT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah

        as follows

          Section [. The following sections ofthe Midvale City Municipal Code are hereby amended as included
in the following attachments to this document:

             .   Attachment A: Arnending Section 17-3-5 Large scale master planned developrnent (MPD)
             .   Altachrnent B: Arnending Scction l'l-7-9.2.8 Planning and zoning process.
             .   Anachrnent C: Arnending Scction 1'7 -7 -9.1 2.3.3 I-arge scale nraster plan requirement.
             .   Attachrnent D: Amending Section l7-7-10.1 1.3.8 Development review process.
             .   Attachment E;Amending Section l'l -7 -1O. 12.2.8 Development review process.
            .        Attachment F: Amending Section 17 -'7 -17.1 .8 Development agreement.
            o        Attachment G: Amending Section l7-7- 16.5 Development agreement.
            o        Attachmenl H: Amending Section l7-7-17.9 Development agreernent.

        Section 2. This ordinance is effective upon publication in accordance with Utah Code Annotated
Section l0-3-71 l.

         pAssED AND AppRovED this             IlL aay of M|oQ                  ,zozt.


                                                      Marcus St(jv   on, Mayor
                          1 sr^ t4:
                     <,
SIIAI,            sY                   tZ             Voting by City Council     "Aye"            'Nay"
                 o                                    Quinn Sperry                           Ll
                 t        lnv r. $d    t              Paul Glover                                         ApJF,t^{
                  t                                   Heidi Robinson

                             R
                                                      Bryant Brown
                                                      Dustin Gettel
                                                                                         ---7
                                                                                                          -1.*q"r
ATTEST:




Rori              on,
Citv Recorder

Published this   i-fl..", of Mw, 2023, on the Utah Public Notice Website.
I,C end
                : Deletion
In 2005 the : Insertion
                                                           Attrchmcnt A:

          Section l7-3-5 Large Scale Master Planned Development (MPD is amended to delete section B as follows

             Dt'vei?nreu,4tveemeaL ln eenjunetien witlr t\e appreval {opany large ^eale MID; the ewner she'l <
                        r::+eer   #                     +{                +(             tl   eh
            @i+iofl                                      sl-rrse-eef,      +i+-for@ir
              lftt)          s1irc{                            ,tl                          rl      le
             e€iated with the MPD,                                   ++)


                                                           Attechment B:

          Section 17-7-9.2.B Planning and Zoning Process is amended to read as follows:

          B. Small Scale Mctsler Pkur. Each small scale master plan must be accoorpanied by a current letter of approval
          frorn the applicable POA at each step of the city's review and approval process prior to submission lo the planning
          staIf, planning commission and the city council. Each small scale lnaster plan app lication l)'rust be consistent
          with the large scale master plan, the comrnon development standards set lorth in Section t7 -7 -9.5 and nrusl
          include the following elements:

          l. Zoning Plan. The BJ zone (as amended) does not include detailed provisions re           certain standards and
          guidelines but adopts a series of goals and intent statements, as set lonh in Section t1-7-9 (Comrnon intent
          stalements). The zoning plal will include proposed, detailed standards and guidelines (in ordinance format)
          goveming the development that implement the goals of the large scale master plan and the applicable intent
          statements. Once approved, the zoning plan shall be incorporated into and adopted as part of lhe BJ zone. The
          proposed standards and guidelines shall address the following issues:

          a. Land use standards establishing land use types, occupancy, location, density, buffering and any other element
          envisioned by the large scale master plan;

          b. Lot standards establishing requirements for minimum lot area, depth. coverage, and dimensions;
          c. Building setback standards for front, side and rear yards;
          d. Design standards addressing building orientation and mass, common and private open space, natural resource
          protection, architectural design including colors and materials, and any other provisions proposed to b€ included
          in the zone;

          e. Landscaping and buffering standards; and
          f. Parking lot design standards (including lighting).
          2. Development Plar. The small scale master plan shall include a schematic development plan showing the
          following:

          a. Location ofproposed uses, including dwelling unit density and occupancy;
          b. Height, location, bulk and preliminary elevations ofbuildings;
          c. Location, arrangement and configuration ofopen space, landscaping, and building setbacks;
          d. Location, access points, and design ofoff-street parking areas;
          e. Number, size and location ofsigns;
          f. Street layout, and trafhc and pedestrian circulation pattems, including proposed access to the property to
          adjoining and nearby properties and uses.
3. l)<,*.'lopnrant Agn errorl. In 2005. the City entered into a Master Develooment Aereernent with Littleson. Inc.
           the term of the Master
                         a   development agreement, in a form satisfactory to the city attomey and city council,
wherein the owner agrees to comply with the provisions of the conditional use pennit for the master planned
development and provides security, to the satisfaction of the city attomey and city council, for all on- and off-
site public improvements associated with the development.

4. Open Spac:e. The small scale master plan will include (a) a detailed description of how the relevant open
space areas shown on the large scale master plan will be implernented (improved and dedicated. as applicable);
and (b) how the open space areas will be linked to the overall open space system identified in the large scale
master plan. The dedication is based on the clustcring and increased densities allowed as part of the Binghatn
Junction zone standard. The allocations lor cost of and rcquirements related to the development of specific
in'rprovenrents to open space and trail linkages shall be developed as part of the large scale master plan small
scale master plan and related development agreements.

5. lnstitLtlional Coatrols. The small scale master plan will dernonstrate that it is in conformance with applicable
institutional controls.

                                                      Attachment C:

Section l7-7-9.12.3.3 Large Scale Master Plan Requirement is amended to read as follows

The propeny is required to be master planned as a whole under the large scale master plan provision prior to any
specific development applications, i.e., small scale master plans, subdivision plats, conditional use pennits, site
plans, being accepted by the city for review and approval. Each developrnent application must be consistent with
the large scale master plan. The large scale master plan rnust include the following elements:

A. At a minimum, the plan shall show the general layout offuture development including general uses, public
open space, roads, circulation, and main vehicular and pedestrian accesses-

B. A dedication ofat least nine percent of the real property to be improved, at no cost to the city, as accessible
and useable public open space. It is expected that the historical cemetery be made a part of this public open space
area. The dedication is based on the clustering and increased densities allowed within the overlay.

C. The rnaxirnum residential density shall be 19.3 units per acre for all residential areas combined.
D. Vehicular accesses shall comply with the city's typical access management standards.
E. For vertical mixed-use development, the maximum FAR is 3.0.
   In eordunetion with the large seale rrester plar; a derelopment agreement; in * fonn satisfaetery +
     ley and eiry eeune'il; shall be reeerCeC with the preperty rvherein the property ewner and its sueee^sors at
       'nq agr€€ to eomply wi
        isr               o-Pl     de      :ur                                                                itH
#l+ite                     tr.n+S its:i€€itr+e<+r   h{H
EI    The large scale master plan, and all subsequent development applications, will demonstrate that it is in
confonnance with applicable institutional controls.

G. !     Subdivisions, sma[[ scale master plans, site and project plans, conditional use permits and building permits
within the silver refin      o verlay shall be in accordance with the current building code, this chapter, and
Chapter [] ?-7-31 and Title l6 of the Midvale City Codc. (Ord. 2015-06 $ I (Att. A); Ord. 2013-04 $ 1 (Att. A
(part)))

                                                      Attachment D:

Section l7-7-10.1t.3(B) Development Review Process is amended to read as follows
Dl,r tlqtrtt'nt AgrL,Ltttt'rtt.ln 2019. the Citv entered into an Amended and Restated Master Developrnent
Agreement with Gardner Jordan Bluffs. L.C. Durine the tenn of the Amended and Restated Master Development
Aer"erl.nt u;J iuiJ""i t,, ,Irv ,i',.nd,r.rt to the Amended an,l R.rtrt.d Mu"t", D.'*'l,rprr.rrt Ae..;;;;-t. ,l
clevcloprneut agleenlcnl, in l lirnn satislactory to thc city lttol ncy ancl city council. lncl consislenl *'itlr lar.v, shall
bc lccluired to ensurc lllc llrol)crly orvner complics u,ith the provisions applying to Subarca .l of thc zoning
district. the large scalc rnlrslqr plan and site plan upprovals, ancl allowiog the propclty orvner (he rigl'tt to dcvclolr
in accordance rvith the approvcd plan tbr a period qr to. but lot exceeding. fificen ycars.

                                                                    Attachment E:

Section l7-7-10.12.2(E) Development Review Process is amended to read as follows:

Detektpment Agraenant                       t9             Ci      ET             into an
         eDt with G                ordan Illrr            L.C.                    tenu of the Am
         ET    d                        ent to theAmended and Restated
                                    a developrnent agreemeDt, in a fom satisfactol'y to the city attomey and city
council, and consistent with law, shall be required in conjunction with each large scale master plan to ensure the
propeny owner cornplies with the provisions applying to Subareas l-3 ofthe zoning district; the Amended arrd
Restated Master Developrnent Agreernent for Jordan BIufTs Project and any amendments thereto; the large scale
master plan, including specific approved plans and elernents establishing the character and design ofthe project
area; and allowing the property o\ner the riglrt to develop in accordance rvith the approved plan for a period up
to, but not exceeding, the tenn of the Arnended and Reslated Master Developnrent Agreement and any
amendments thereto for Jordan Bluffs Project City-owned municipal facilities                                 exemDt froln this reouirement

                                                                    Attachment F:

Section 17-7-12.t.8 Development Agreement is deleted as follows

                    rlsct                                         ,ry-ld r*l                    rn+ert)-€i      L     al+t€{eSt$red=f€r

                                                                                                                    nd.dtelritg-the.?foF
                )-de       lt)       i€e               ,ed        :a-f        rtrl          -exeeedir
'ears, Any rezone to the Regional eomroerei-l Residential gyerlay shall not tar€e el lbee+cd-l-+he-&.ve
                      4+ *            r1     -+r   '{t,   +                     :€r+.++16r


                                                                    Attachment G:

Section 17-7-16.5 Development Agreement is deleted as follows

  h€-e*feou$etHffir
 ^eitity eoftinue te epe
,leYelopment agresnent
 nd seryiee preyider agree to eorrply ryith the provisioos ef the develsprnent approyali in€ludiEg any requ
xrsite ana eff site eu                                                  t€d'*ith-*€-d€vek               I+e
                   rs-{)+'d   2r             w+l
                                                                    Attachment H:

Chapter 17-7 -17.9 Development Agreement is deleted as follows:

              €rlt+gfee                    l*)rl          +slr€          {, >                                           t $e{e$} ired

                                                                                                                                           i
 xeeedir           +R€en                                         l+]e   il )u()'i+           &€+ffu rri.l- se-dete
lleit$+-€]   rl   {€ ,fd 2 l+ )J- -l
