                                          EXHIBIT A

                                 oRDtNANCE N(). 2023-0-09

AN ORDINANCE AMEN DI NG TITLE I 7-7-1. l0(BXh)(i) and t7 -7 -2.t0(BX2XhXi)
RELATING TO THE ALLOWABLE NUMBER OF CHICKf,NS IN EACH LOT SIZE
CATEGORY THE MIDVALE CITY MUNICIPAL CODE.

        WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated Sections l0-8-84 and l0-9a-501 through
l0-9a-503, Midvale City C'the City") has authority to make and amend any regulation of or
within zoning districts or any other provision ofthe land use ordinance to promote the prosperity.
improve the morals, peace and good order. comfort. convenience. and aesthetics of the
municipality: and

        WHEREAS, on January 2. 2002. the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance. l'itle l7 of the
Midvale Ciity Municipal Code (lhe "Code"). became effective and is subject to amendmenls from
time to lime pursuant to Section | 7-3- l the Code: and

         WHEREAS, pursuant to Section I 6-04-01 0 of the Code. the City desires to promote the
protection of public health. lif'e and safety; protect the character and social and economic
stability of all parts ofthe city; protect and preserve the value of land throughout the
municipality; guide public and private policy and action; establish responsible standards; prevcnt
pollution and degradation of air, streams, and ponds; preserve the natural beauty and topography;
and provide for open spaces through the most effect design and layout ofthe land;

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Section I 7- I - I of the Code, the City desires to promote
coordinated development, redevelopment, effective use of land, and site planning: protect and
promote public safety, health, and general welfare by providing adequate light and air, water and
sewage control, police. fire and wetlands protection; and secure economy in governmental
expenditures: and

     WHEREAS, the City desires to amend Title I 7-7- I .10(BX2)(hXi) and 17-7-2.10
(BX2XhXi) relating to the allowable number of hens in each lot size category; and

        WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing onMay 24,2023. to review
the request for amendments and, after considering all the information received. made a
recommendation to approve the amendment request to the City Council; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on June 20,
2023:. and

       WHEREAS, after taking into consideration citizen testimony, planning analysis. and the
Planning Commission's recommendation as part of its deliberations. the City Council finds it is
appropriate and within the best interest ofthe City to make changes to the Code.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City. Utah
as follows:

       Section l. The following sections of the Midvale tlity Municipal Code are hereby
       amended as included in the following attachments to this document:

              .    Attachment A: Amending Title I7-7- L l0(BX2Xh)(i) and 17-7-2.10 (BX2)(hXi)
                   relating to the allowable number of hens in each lot size category.

       Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect upon the date of first publication.

       pASsED AND AppRovE DrhisU'dayof                                                       .2021.
                                                                       -\]-Ufll-
                                        Y SI4
                                  o\1
                             <,
                        .tY
                                                     c         arc us Steve ns()n. Ma ()t'
                        o
                                                     Z
                        =
                         *         ,uw t, tco        t
ATTEST:                                                      Voting by City Council          "Aye"           "Nay"
                                         RATE                Quinn Sperry
              t/                                             Paul Clover                     ;t..--.r- r i
                                                             Heidi Robinson
Ro   Andreason.                                              Bryant Brown                    -___<_
Ci   Recorder                                                Dustin Cettel

Date of first publication           u           1,       1
                                       Attach ment A:

l7-7-1.r0(BX2)

h. Chickens. Subject to the requirements ofthis section and any other applicable provision of
this code, hen chickens (and no roosters or other types offowl) regardless ofage. in the amount
set forth below. may be kept on a lot or parcel of land for the sole purpose of producing eggs.

       i. The number ofhen chickens which may be kept shall be limited based on the size of
       the lot or parcel as [ollows:

               (A) Lots with at least twelve thousand souare feeteFe.$al+s€*e: up to eight.
               (B) Lots with at least ten thousand square feet: up to jxf,+e.
               (C) Lots with at least iLs€yen thousand square feet: up to fitcthree.

               (D) tets wilh at least five theusand sqsare feet: up te trvo,
               (Dg) Lots with less than iixf,+e thousand squarc feet: none.

t7-7-2.1O(BX2)

h. Chickens. Subject to the requirements ofthis section and any other applicable provision of
this code' hen chickens (and no roosters or other types of fowl) regardless ofage, in the amount
set forth below, may be kept on a lot or parcel ofland for the sole purpose ofproducing eggs.

       i. The number ofhen chickens which may be kept shall be limited based onlhesizeof
       the lot or parcel as follows:

               (A) Lots with at least twelve thousand souare feetene-helFaere: up to eight.
               (B) Lots with at least ten thousand square feet: up to g!5f,+e.
               (C) Lots with at least ills€v€s thousand square feet: up to tycthree.

               (D) tots with at least five thoEsand sqHere feeti Hp te tlyo,
               (DE) Lots with less than gi5f,+e thousand square feet: none.
