1



                              MIDVALE CITY, UTAH
                             ORDINANCE NO. 2023.0.I O

     AN ORDINANCE AMENDING MIDVALE MI.]NICIPAL CODE SECTION
    IO.I5.I60 OVERNIGHT PARKING OF CERTAIN VEHICLES PROHIBITED.

       WHEREAS, Midvale City is authorized to "regulate the use of streets, alleys.
avenues, sidewalks. crosswalks. [.. .] and install, prevenl. or remove obslructions and
encroachments thereon" under Utah Code Annotated { l0-8- I I ; and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated $ 4l-6a-207(3)(b), the City is
authorized to adopt "additional traffic ordinances not in conflict with [Title 41. Chapter
6a ofthe Utah Code Annotated];" and


        WHEREAS, the Midvale City Council is aulhorized to "pass all ordinances and
rules, and make all regulations, not repugnant to law. [...] as are necessary and proper to
provide for the safety and preserve the health. and promote the prosperity. improve the
morals. peace and good order. comfort. and convenience ofthe city and its inhabitants,
and for the protection of property in the city'' under Utah Code Annotated $ l0-8-84( I );
and

         WHEREAS, residents have raised concerns about the impact and noise caused by
generators, condensers, and other equipment being operated by recreational vehicles.
trailers, and semitrucks between l0 PM and 7 AM: and

        WHEREAS, Salr Lake County Health Regulation #21 Lbmmunity Noise
Pollution Control is difltcult for law enforcement to enforce because its enforcement
requires the use ofa calibrated and certified sound meter; and

      WHEREAS, local police officers are not equipped with calibrated and certified
sound meters. and the acquisition of such sound meters is prohibitively expensive; and

       WHEREAS. Midvale Municipal Code 10.15.160 only prohibits the parking ol
certain vehicles on public streets between I and 6 AM: and

       WHEREAS, this current time restrictions are dif'tlcult to enforce with the
available on-duty law entbrcement during this period: and

        WHEREAS, by amending Midvale Municipal Code 10.15.160 to mirror tht: quiet
hours set by Salt Lake County Health Regulation #21 . the City Council desires to and
finds that it will improve the health, safety, and comtbrt of its residents and to improve
the appearance ofthe City by removing the primary noise offenders from public streets
during quiet hours; and
2


         WHEREAS, the City Council desires and finds that the expansion of the time
restrictions on the parking ofcertain vehicles will improve the ability for law
enforcement to enforce these restrictions and improve the quality of life of residents.

          NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City.
[.ltah. as fbllou,s:

        Section I . Midvale Municipal Code Section I 0. | 5. I 60 Oternight parking ol
certain vehicles is amended as provided in Attachment A.

       Section 2. This ordinance is effective upon publication in accordance with Section
l0-3-711 ofthe I ltah Code.


          PASSED AND APPROVED this 20'hday ol'June. 2023.




                                                          Marcus Stevenson, Mayor
                               1 SI4 ,6.
                                            o..
                      a,
lsEAr,l                                       c        VortNG:
                                                  ,,
                 ,!            arw r, r9o         *    Bryant Brown     Yea ",- N ay
                  t                                    Dustin Gettel    Yea _s_ N ay
                                                       Paul Glover      Yea_N il\        ,


                                  R                    Heidi Robinson   Yea _g_ N ay
                                                       Quinn Sperry     Yea -- N ay
ATTEST:

                           /
R    t-. A reason-              MC
City Recorder

Published thisap day ofJune, 2023, on the Utah Public Notice Website.
I 0. I 6. I 50   Overnight parking of certain vehicles prohibited.
Unless otherwise posted. it is an infraction for any ofthe lollowing vehicles to be parked on any street. alley.
or roadway within the city between the hours ofene-it.Hr l0:00 P.lVl. and si}ri'm-7:00 A. M.:

A. Buses;
B. Mobile homes:
C. Off'-highway vehicles excluding street-legal ATVs;
D. Pole trailers:
E. Recreationalvehicles:
F. School buses;
G. Semirailers:
H. Trailers:
I. Truck tractors:
J. Any vehicle without motive power; and
K. Any vehicle that is more than eight feet tall. eiglrt feet wide, twenty-two feet long, or has a gross weight in
excess often thousand pounds.
