                                          MIDVALE CITY

                                   ORDINANCE NO. 2024-0-20

            AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING A TEMPORARY LAND USE
          REGULATION (MORATORIUM) RELATING TO CHAPTER 17-7-17,
         TRANSIT-ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT OVERLAY ZONE (TODO), OF
                      THE MIDVALE MUNICIPAL CODE.

        WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated Section 10-9a-504 and Midvale Municipal
Code Section 17-3-1 (F), the Midvale City Council may, without prior consideration of or
recommendation from the Planning Commission, enact an ordinance establishing a temporary land
use regulation for any part or all of the area within the municipality if the City Council makes a
finding of compelling, countervailing public interest; and

        WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated Section l 0-9a- l 02, the Midvale City Council
is authorized to "enact all ordinances, resolutions, and rules and may enter into other forms of land
use controls [ ... ] that the municipality considers necessary or appropriate for the use and
development of land within the municipality" in order to "(a) provide for the health, safety and
welfare; (b) promote the prosperity; (c) improve the morals, peace, good comfort, convenience, and
aesthetics of each municipality and each municipality's present and future inhabitants and
businesses; (d) protect the tax base; [ ... ] and (k) protect property values"; and

       WHEREAS, the Midvale City Council recently adopted the Midvale Center and Midvale Ft.
Union Station Area Plans, which recommend amending the Transit-Oriented Development Overlay
(TODO); and

       WHEREAS, the Midvale City Council finds revisions and/or amendments to the overlay are
necessary to encourage higher density and mixed-use development; and

        WHEREAS, the Midvale City Council is concerned with potential development proposals
within the Transit-Oriented Development Overlay (TODO) and rezone requests within said overlay
will frustrate the recommendations and station area plans that were adopted; and

       WHEREAS, the Midvale City Council wish to provide sufficient time to staff to draft
standards that will implement the station area plans and recommendations approved by the City
Council; and

        WHEREAS, the Midvale City Council believes that the successful implementation of the
station area plans and amendments to the Transit-Oriented Development Overlay will "(a) provide
for the health, safety and welfare; (b) promote the prosperity; (c) improve the morals, peace, good
comfort, convenience, and aesthetics of each municipality and each municipality's present and future
inhabitants and businesses; (d) protect the tax base; [ ... ] and (k) protect property values" of Midvale
City and, more specifically, the neighborhoods surrounding the TRAX stations on 7200 South and


Ordinance 2024-0-20                        Page 1 of3
7800 South; and

        WHEREAS, the Midvale City Council finds that an immediate moratorium on development
within the overlay is warranted until such standards and amendments are drafted and adopted by the
Midvale City Council.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah as
follows:

        Section I.    Finding of compelling, countervailing public interest. The City Council
incorporates the findings provided in the recitals above. The City Council finds that there is a
compelling, countervailing public interest in adopting an ordinance to place a temporary land use
regulation (moratorium) relating to Chapter 17-7-17, in order to "(a) provide for the health, safety
and welfare; (b) promote the prosperity; (c) improve the morals, peace, good comfort, convenience,
and aesthetics of [the] municipality and [the] municipality ' s present and future inhabitants and
businesses; (d) protect the tax base; [ ... ]and (k) protect property values" of Midvale City.

        Section 2. Balancing of Public vs. Private Interests. As outlined in the recitals, the City
Council finds that the effect of this temporary land use regulation on owners of private property,
whose applications for development projects have not yet vested or who might submit applications
for development or rezone requests after the ordinance's adoption, is outweighed by the public
interest in amending the Transit-Oriented Development Overlay within Midvale City.

         Section 3. Temporary Land Use Regulation. From the effective date of this ordinance and
during the period of this temporary land use regulation, the erection, construction, reconstruction, or
alteration of any building or structure or any subdivision approval subject to Midvale Municipal
Code Chapter 17-7-17 is prohibited.

       Section 4. Duration. This temporary land use regulation shall remain in effect for a period of
180 days from the effective date of this ordinance, until the City Council affirmatively repeals this
temporary land use regulation, or until the effective date of a City Council action adopting
comprehensive revisions to Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-17 that implement the
recommendations of the station area plans, whichever occurs first.

        Section 5. Effective date. This ordinance shall become effective immediately upon passage.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 16th day of July 2024.



                                               Marcus Stevenson, Mayor




Ordinance 2024-0-20                       Page 2 of3
ATTEST:                                Voting by City Council                "Nay"
                                       Bonnie Billings
                                       Paul Glover
                                       Heidi Robinson
                                       Bryant Brown
                                       Dustin Gettel


Date of publication on the Utah Public Notice Website:~ b   I '11 :}.t.P-(




Ordinance 2024-0-20                Page 3 of3
