                                  ORDINANCE NO. 2024-0-31

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 13.16.130 OF THE STORMWATER UTILITY
CHAPTER OF THE MIDVALE CITY MUNICIPAL CODE RELATING TO
CONSTRUCTION SITE STORMWATER ENFORCEMNT ACTIONS.

         WHEREAS, during the 2024 legislative session, HB507 was passed into law, a bill
strictly addressing construction storm water runoff controls; and

       WHEREAS, these controls are found in Utah Code Section 19-5-108.3 ; and

       WHEREAS, no local entity can have stricter enforcement actions for these controls than
those contained in Utah Code Section 19-5-108.3 ; and

       WHEREAS, the City desires to amend Section 13.16.130 of the Midvale Municipal
Code to meet the provisions of the state code.

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah
as follows:

       Section 1. The following section of the Midvale City Municipal Code is hereby
       amended as included in the following attachment to this document:

           •     Attachment A: Amending Section 13.16.130 relating to the enforcement action
                 for construction sites.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 3rd day of December, 2024.




                                                     by City Council     "Aye"          "Nay"
                                                   e Billings              ✓
                                                    lover                   v
                                               1   Robinson                 .
                                                                            ,/
                                             Bryant Brown                   ✓
                  '                                                         V
       ecorder                               Dustin Gettel

Date of first publication:   j)eQ q~;)!.{
                                   I
Attachment ' A'
13.16.130        Enforcement.

A. This chapter may be enforced through the administrative code enforcement program of the
Midvale Municipal Code, or by filing civil or criminal actions. The city has sole discretion to
decide whether to file a civil or criminal case for a violation. The city may file both, or one or the
other. The possibility of an administrative remedy pursuant to administrative code
enforcement in no way interferes with the city's right to prosecute violations of this chapter as
criminal offenses. The city may use any of the remedies available under the law in both civil and
criminal prosecution . If the city chooses to file both civil and criminal charges for the same
violation, no civil penalties may be assessed, but all other remedies are available.

B. For construction-related activities, the city may take the fello•uing actions in addition to the
actions permitted under subsection@ of this section :

    1. Cemp.'ir:mce Orfi.er:. A compliance order is a .,.,,ritten notification issued by the city and
    served on the o•.,ner'operater directing the muner'operator to correct 'A1ork that is out of
    compliance with the apprnved SWPPP or other de,,elopment apprnved plans. Work is
    allowed te rnntinue fer the time limit identified in the rnmpliance order te rnrrect the
    deficiencies noted . i;ailure te rnmply with the rnmpliance order will result in a stop •uork
    order being issued.

    2. Step Work Order. A stop work order is a •.witten notification issued by the city and served
    on the o•uner'operator directing the O"'ner'operator to stop all "'Ork immediately. Work
    can only be resumed after the rnnditions and the requirements of the stop •uork order
    ha><e been met and the city has conducted an inspection and issued a notice of rnmpliance.
    This also includes the suspension of all building inspections.

    :=J. Refer.rg/ to SG!t LGke Ce1c1nt;1 Heg/tJ:i [)epgrtment. The city will notify the Salt bake County
    1,-jealth Department of any threatened discharge or public nuisance conditions that may or
    may not be related to construction requirements.

4. AeGtement. Whenever a violation is identified ,,.,.hich will result in an immediate danger to            [ Formatted: Indent: Left: O"

public health or safety and the "iolation is not immediately corrected by the responsible party,
Midvale City and Salt bake County 1,-jealth Department may tal~e whatever actions are necessary
to abate the violation . The cost of such abatement shall be charged to the respimsible party.
fOra. w21 2Q § 1 f'tt. 'l: Ora. G'1 a'2QQ40 n § 1 f~art)lany and all actions authorized by the State of
Utah. including. but not limited to. those provided in Utah Code Ann. § 19-5-1083.
