                                 ORDINANCE NO. 2024-0-04

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 17-7-4.lO(B)(l)(d)(iii) RELATING TO THE
ALLOWABLE SQUARE FOOT AGE OF NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL IN THE
RM-25 ZONE OF THE MIDVALE CITY MUNICIPAL CODE.

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated Sections 10-8-84 and 10-9a-501 through
10-9a-503 , Midvale City ("the City") has authority to make and amend any regulation of or
within zoning districts or any other provision of the land use ordinance to promote the prosperity,
improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, convenience, and aesthetics of the
municipality ; and

        WHEREAS, on January 2, 2002, the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance, Title 17 of the
Midvale City Municipal Code (the "Code"), became effective and is subject to amendments from
time to time pursuant to Section 17-3-1 the Code; and

         WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 16-04-0 IO of the Code, the City desires to promote the
protection of public health, life and safety; protect the character and social and economic
stability of all parts of the city; protect and preserve the value of land throughout the
municipality; guide public and private policy and action; establish responsible standards; prevent
pollution and degradation of air, streams, and ponds; preserve the natural beauty and topography;
and provide for open spaces through the most effect design and layout of the land;

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 17-1-1 of the Code, the City desires to promote
coordinated development, redevelopment, effective use of land, and site planning; protect and
promote public safety, health, and general welfare by providing adequate light and air, water and
sewage control, police, fire and wetlands protection; and secure economy in governmental
expenditures; and

       WHEREAS, the City desires to amend Title 17-7-4.10(B)(l)(d)(iii) relating to the
allowable square footage of neighborhood commercial in the RM-25 zone; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on February 28, 2024, to
review the request for amendments and, after considering all the information received, made a
recommendation to approve the amendment request to the City Council ; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on March 26,
2024 and

       WHEREAS, after taking into consideration citizen testimony, planning analysis, and the
Planning Commission's recommendation as part of its deliberations, the City Council finds it is
appropriate and within the best interest of the City to make changes to the Code.

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah
as follows:
       Section 1. The following sections of the Midvale City Municipal Code are hereby
       amended as included in the following attachments to this document:

           •   Attachment A: Amending Title 17-7-4. l 0(8)( l )(d)(iii) relating to the allowable
               square footage of neighborhood commercial in the RM-25 zone.

       Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect upon the date of first publication.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this)(Jfi-day of               fV1 f l ( ~      , 2024.
                                                            l



                                                if.~~or~


                                                Voting by City Council      "Aye"           "Nay"
                                                Bonnie Billings                 ✓
                                                Paul Glover                    1/
                                                Heidi Robinson                 I/
    i_Andreason, MMC                            Bryant Brown                   V
City Recorder                                   Dustin Gettel                  t✓


Date of first publication: ./+re.,L I 1 1/Jo{
Attachment A:
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-4, Multifamily Residential-Medium to High Density Zone (RM-25)




                                         Chapter 17-7-4
    MUL Tl FAMILY RESIDENTIAL-MEDIUM TO HIGH DENSITY ZONE
                                               (RM-25)

Sections:
  17-7-4.10      Conditional use standards of review.



17-7-4.10        Conditional use standards of review.
B. Specific Review Criteria for Certain Conditional Uses.

    1. Conditional Use.

         d. Neighborhood Commercial Uses. Each application for a neighborhood commercial
         use shall demonstrate that the proposed use:

              i. Is pedestrian oriented and shall primarily serve the neighborhood in which it is
              located;

              ii. Is located on a lot at the intersection of two surface streets, each with a
              minimum right-of-way width of fifty feet;

              iii. Is limited in size to a maximum footprint of one thousand five
              thousandhundred square feet;

              iv. Has a maximum of four on-site parking spaces that shall be located in the rear
              of the building;

              v. Is architecturally compatible with the underlying zone;

              vi. Shall operate no earlier than seven a.m. and no later than nine p.m.;

              vii. Includes no outdoor storage nor an outdoor display of merchandise, but may
              include outdoor dining;

              viii. Includes a delivery plan which adequately mitigates its impact on the
              residential neighborhood in which it is located;



       The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2023-15, passed November 14, 2023.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-4, Multifamily Residential-Medium to High Density Zone (RM-25)


              ix. Screens light trespass to adequately mitigate lighting impacts on surrounding
              uses;

              x. Does not require a lot combination or consolidation of existing platted lots; and

              xi. Includes the owner's covenant to comply with the foregoing, which covenant
              shall run with the conditional use permit.




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2023-15, passed November 14, 2023.
