                                       Exhibit A - Ordinance
                                              MIDVALE CITY

                                       ORDINANCE NO. 2024-0-12

                  AN ORDINANCE CREATING CHAPTER 17-6 OF THE MIDVALE CITY
                  MUNICIPAL CODE AND ENACTING THE JORDAN VALLEY WATER
                   CONSERVANCY DISTRICT'S WATER EFFICIENCY STANDARDS.

         WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated Sections I 0-8-84 and I 0-9a-50 I through I 0-9a-503,
Midvale City ("the City") has authority to make and amend any regulation of or within zoning districts or any
other provision of the land use ordinance to promote the prosperity, improve the morals, peace and good order,
comfort, convenience, and aesthetics of the municipality; and

        WHEREAS, on January 2, 2002, the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance, Title 17 of the Midvale City
Municipal Code (the "Code"), became effective and is subject to amendments from time to time pursuant to
Section 17-3-1 the Code; and

         WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 17-1-1 of the Code, the City desires to promote coordinated
development, redevelopment, effective use of land, and site planning; protect and promote public safety, health,
and general welfare by providing adequate light and air, water and sewage control, police, fire and wetlands
protection; and secure economy in governmental expenditures; and

         WHEREAS, the City desires to create Chapter 17-6 to add supplementary regulations that have a
general applicability across multiple zones; and

         WHEREAS, the City desires to implement water conservation standards for the benefit of the City, its
residents, and the State; and

         WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. § 73-10-37 and Utah Administrative Code R653- l l also require the City
to adopt Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District's (JVWCD) Water Efficiency Standards in order for its
residents to be eligible for landscaping conversion incentives; and

         WHEREAS, the City wants its residents to eligible for landscaping conversion incentives; and

         WHEREAS, the JVWCD Water Efficiency Standards have general applicability across multiple zones;
and

          WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on April I 0, 2024, to review the request
for text amendments and, after considering all the information received, made a recommendation to approve the
text amendments to the City Council; and

         WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on April 16, 2024; and

         WHEREAS, after taking into consideration citizen testimony, planning analysis, and the Planning
Commission's recommendation as part of its deliberations, the City Council finds it is appropriate and within
the best interest of the City to enact Chapter 17-6 to provide supplementary regulations that have a general
applicability across multiple zones and to adopt JVWCD 's Water Efficiency Standards .

               NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah,
as follows :
         Section I. The following chapter of the Midvale City Municipal Code is hereby enacted as included in
the following attachment:

             •     Attachment A: Chapter 17-6 Supplementary Regulations

         Section 2. A violation of this ordinance includes the possibility of fines or imprisonment. Midvale City
is required, under Utah Code Annotated Section 788-22-30 I, to provide for indigent legal defense, as that term
is defined in Utah Code Annotated Section 788-22-102.

        Section 3.     This ordinance is effective upon publication in accordance with Utah Code Annotated
Section I 0-3-711.




         PASSED AND APPROVED this ].Ulday of               W]?Ui             , 2024.

                                                    ~G~-
                                                    Marcus Stevenson, Mayor


SEAL                                                           Voting by City Council "Aye"              "Nay"
                                                               Bonnie Billings                v
                                                               Paul Glover               ........--
                                                               Heidi Robinson            .....---
                                                               Bryant Brown             .....---
                                                               Dustin Gettel             L/


ATTEST:




       L. Andreason, MMC
City    ecorder

Published this ~     day of ~        ' 2024, on the Utah Public Notice Website.
                         Attachment A: Chapter 17-6 Supplementary Regulations

                                              Chapter 17-6
                                        Supplementary Regulations
Sections
17-6-1           Applicability of this Chapter
17-6-2           Water Conservation Standards

17-6-1 Applicability of this Chapter
The intent of this section is to provide for miscellaneous land development standards which are applicable in
Title 17. An individual is required to follow all applicable standards under Title 17. When a conflict exists
between these supplementary regulations in Chapter 17-6 and an individual zone, the standards of the individual
zone shall supersede these supplementary regulations unless otherwise stated.

17-6-2 Water Conservation Standards

All new landscaping in all zones in the City shall conform with the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District
Water Efficiency Standards as published on the District's website (jvwcd.org). This requirement shall supersede
individual zone requirements notwithstanding Section 17-6-1.
JVWCD Water Efficiency Standards
                             WATER EFFICIENCY STANDARDS

1.   Purpose
     The purpose of these Water Efficiency Standards is to conserve the public's water
     resources by establishing water conservation standards for indoor plumbing fixtures and
     outdoor landscaping.

2.   Applicability
     The following standards shall be required for all developer/contractor installed residential,
     commercial, institutional, and industrial construction, as applicable . The Outdoor
     Landscaping Standards shall also be required for new landscaping construction installed
     by homeowners.

3.   Indoor Fixture Requirements
     It is recommended and encouraged, but not mandated, that all new and future
     construction and future additions, remodels, or refurbishments install plumbing fixtures
     that have the WaterSense label, including: lavatory faucets, shower heads, sink faucets,
     water closets (tank and flushometer-valve toilets), and urinals, to the extent Utah law
     allows municipalities or local districts to require these fixtures.

4.   Outdoor Landscaping Standards
     All new and rehabilitated landscaping for public agency projects, private development
     projects, developer-installed landscaping in multi-family and single-family residential
     projects within the front and side yards, and homeowner provided landscape
     improvements within the front and side yards of single and two-family dwellings shall
     comply with the landscaping standards below:

     Definitions

     A. Activity Zones: Portions of the landscape designed for recreation or function, such as
        storage areas, fire pits, vegetable gardens, and playgrounds.

     B. Active Recreation Areas: Areas of the landscape dedicated to active play where Lawn
        may be used as the playing surface (ex. sports fields and play areas) .

     C. Central Open Shape: An unobstructed area that functions as the focal point of
        Localscapes and is designed in a shape that is geometric in nature.

     D. Gathering Areas: Portions of the landscape that are dedicated to congregating, such
        as patios, gazebos, decks, and other seating areas.

     E. Hardscape: Durable landscape materials, such as concrete, wood, pavers, stone, or
        compacted inorganic mulch.

                                               1
     F. Lawn: Ground that is covered with grass or turf that is regularly mowed .

     G. Localscapes®: A landscaping approach designed to create locally adapted and
        sustainable landscapes through a basic 5-step approach (central open shape,
        gathering areas, activity zones, connecting pathways, and planting beds).

     H. Mulch: Any material such as rock , bark, compost, wood chips or other materials left
        loose and applied to the soil.

     I.   Park Strip: A typically narrow landscaped area located between the back-of-curb and
          sidewalk.

     J. Paths: Designed routes between landscape areas and features.

     K. Planting Bed: Areas of the landscape that consist of plants, such as trees, ornamental
        grasses, shrubs, perennials, and other regionally appropriate plants.

     L. Total Landscaped Area: Improved areas of the property that incorporate all of the
        completed features of the landscape. The landscape area does not include footprints
        of buildings or structures, sidewalks, driveways, and other non-irrigated areas
        intentionally left undeveloped.

5.   Landscaping Requirements

     A. All irrigation shall be appropriate for the designated plant material to achieve the
        highest water efficiency. Drip irrigation or bubblers shall be used except in Lawn areas.
        Drip irrigation systems shall be equipped with a pressure regulator, filter, flush-end
        assembly, and any other appropriate components.

     B. Each irrigation valve shall irrigate landscaping with similar site, slope and soil
        conditions, and plant materials with similar watering needs. Lawn and Planting Beds
        shall be irrigated on separate irrigation valves. In addition, drip emitters and sprinklers
        shall be placed on separate irrigation valves .

     C. Landscaped areas shall be provided with a WaterSense labeled smart irrigation
        controller which automatically adjusts the frequency and/or duration of irrigation
        events in response to changing weather conditions . All controllers shall be equipped
        with automatic rain delay or ra in shut-off capabilities.

     D. At least 3-4 inches of Mulch, permeable to air and water, shall be used in Planting
        Beds to control weeds and improve the appearance of the landscaping.

     E. At maturity, landscapes are recommended to have enough plant material (perennials
        and shrubs) to create at least 50% living plant cover at maturity at the ground plane,
        not including tree canopies .

                                               2
F. Lawn shall not be installed in Park Strips, Paths, or on slopes greater than 25% or 4:1
   grade, and be less than 8 feet wide at its narrowest point. To the extent reasonably
   practicable, Lawn shall be free from obstructions (trees, signs, posts, valve boxes,
   etc.).

G. In residential landscapes, the landscaping shall adhere to the following Localscapes
   requirements :

        i.   If size permits, the landscaped areas of the front yard and back yard shall
             include a designed Central Open Shape created by using Lawn , Hardscape,
             groundcover, gravel , or Mulch.
        ii. Gathering Areas shall be constructed of Hardscape and placed outside of the
             Central Open Shape. In a landscape without Lawn, Gathering Areas may
             function as the Central Open Shape.
        iii. Activity Zones shall be located outside of the Central Open Shape and shall be
             surfaced with materials other than Lawn.
        iv. Paths shall be made with materials that do not include Lawn , such as
             Hardscape, Mulch, or other groundcover.
        v. Lawn areas shall not exceed the greater of 250 square feet, or 35% of the Total
             Landscaped Area.
        vi. Small residential lots, which have no back yards , which the Total Landscaped
             Area is less than 250 square feet, and which the front yard dimensions cannot
             accommodate the minimum 8 feet wide Lawn area requirement of the
             Landscaping Requ irements in section F, are exempt from the 8 feet minimum
             width Lawn area requirement.

H. In commercial, industrial , institutional , and multi-family development common area
   landscapes, Lawn areas shall not exceed 20% of the Total Landscaped Area, outside
   of Active Recreation Areas .

I.   Certain special purpose landscape areas (e.g. stormwater management areas, etc.)
     may receive exceptions from the slope limitations and other elements of the
     Landscaping Requirements (see Paragraph F, above). Applications to receive
     exceptions are to be considered on a case-by-case basis.

J. These outdoor standards are not intended to be in conflict with other landscaping
   requirements as defined by Utah law, including stormwater retention requirements
   and low-impact development guidelines . Notwithstanding these outdoor standards,
   whenever any requirement may be in conflict with Utah law, such conflicting
   requirements shall not apply.



                                          3
