MIDVALE CITY, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2024-0-01
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 16, SECTIONS 17-2-4, 17-2-13, 17-2-16, 17-2-
18, 17-2-19, 17-3-2, AND 17-3-13, AND CREATING TITLE 18 OF THE MIDVALE
CITY MUNICIPAL CODE.

WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated Sections 10-8-84, 10-9a-501 through 10-9a-503,
and 10-9a-601, Midvale City (“the City”) has authority to make and amend any regulation of or within
zoning districts or any other provision of the land use ordinance and to enact a subdivision ordinance to
promote the prosperity, improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, convenience, and aesthetics of
the municipality; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 16.04.010 of the Code, the City desires to guide future growth and
development of the city, in accordance with the general plan; provide for adequate light, air, and privacy,
to secure safety from fire, flood, landslides and other geologic hazards and other dangers, and to prevent
overcrowding of the land and undue congestion of population; protect the character and the social and
economic stability of all parts of the city and to encourage the orderly and beneficial development of all
parts of the municipality; protect and preserve the value of land throughout the municipality and the value
of buildings and improvements upon the land, and to minimize the conflicts among the uses of land and
buildings; guide public and private policy and action in order to provide adequate and efficient
transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, playgrounds, recreation, and other public requirements and
facilities; and establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for subdivisions, records of survey,
replats, and lot line adjustments, in order to further the orderly layout and use of land; and to insure proper
legal descriptions and monumenting of subdivided land; and

WHEREAS, Utah Code Annotated Section 10-9a-604.1 prohibits the City Council from approving
subdivision application and limits to the Planning Commission from approving preliminary subdivision
applications only; and

WHEREAS, Utah Code Annotated Section 10-9a-604.2 prescribes processes for reviewing
subdivision applications and limits the number times a subdivision application may be reviewed; and

WHEREAS, the City desires to amend Title 16 and Sections 17-2-4, 17-2-13, 17-2-16, 17-2-18,
17-2-19, 17-2-20, 17-3-2, and 17-3-13 and to create Title 18 of the Midvale City Municipal Code to better
protect the City’s interest in public infrastructure and comply with state law; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on December 12, 2023, to review the
request for text amendments and, after considering all the information received, made a recommendation
to approve the text amendments to the City Council; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on January 16, 2024;
and

WHEREAS, after taking into consideration citizen testimony, legal, planning, and engineering
analysis, and the Planning Commission’s recommendation as part of its deliberations, the City Council finds
it is appropriate and within the best interest of the City to make changes to the Code.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah as follows:

Section 1. The following portions of the Midvale City Municipal Code are hereby amended and

created as included in the following attachments to this document:
e Attachment A: Amending Title 16 Subdivisions.
e Attachment B: Amending Section 17-2-4 “D” definitions.
e Attachment C: Amending Section 17-2-13 “M7” definitions.
e Attachment D: Amending Section 17-2-16 “P” definitions.
e Attachment E: Amending Section 17-2-18 “R” definitions.
e Attachment F: Amending Section 17-2-19 “S” definitions.
e Attachment G: Amending Section 17-2-20 “T” definitions.
e Attachment H: Amending Section 17-3-2 Reviewing Bodies.
e Attachment I: Amending Section 17-3-13 Variance Process.
e Attachment J: Creating Title 18 Infrastructure and Engineering Standards.
Section 2. A violation of this ordinance includes the possibility of fines or imprisonment. Midvale
City is required, under Utah Code Annotated Section 78B-22-301, to provide for indigent legal defense, as
that term is defined in Utah Code Annotated Section 78B-22-102.
Section 3. This ordinance is effective upon publication in accordance with Utah Code Annotated
Section 10-3-711.
PASSED AND APPROVED this 16th day of January, 2024.
Marcus Stevenson, Mayor
SEAL = ff sCORPORATED \ z Voting by City Council “Aye” “Nay”
=| Ca x Bonnie Billings VA
ey UY - es Paul Glover um
Sons LS Heidi Robinson VA
ORAT Bryant Brown iz
Dustin Gettel LZ
ATTEST:
Ror L. Andreason, MMC
City Recorder
Published this i a day of | lA Muay, 2024, on the Utah Public Notice Website.
Page 2 of 2

ATTACHMENT A: Amending Title 16 Subdivisions
Title 16 is repealed and replaced in its entirety by the following:
Title 16
SUBDIVISIONS

Chapters:

16.01 Administration

16.02 Preliminary Subdivision

16.03 Final Subdivision

16.04 Boundary Line Adjustment

16.05 Vacation, Replat, or Amendment of Plat

Chapter 16.01
Administration

Sections:

16.01.010 Purpose.

16.01.020 Definitions.

16.01.030 Applicability.

16.01.050 Violation of Subdivision Ordinance.

16.01.060 Fees.

16.01.070 Invalidity or Unconstitutionality.

16.01.080 Unlawful Subdivision.

16.01.090 Nonconforming Structures.

16.01.100 Condominium Plat

16.01.110 Appeals.

16.01.120 Pre-Application Meeting

16.01.130 Overview of Subdivision Process.
16.01.010 Purpose.
This Title is enacted pursuant to Utah Code Ann. 8 10-9a-601. The purpose of this title is to:

A. Protect and provide for the public health, safety, and general welfare of the City;

B. Guide the future growth and development of the City, in accordance with the General
Plan;

C. Provide for adequate light, air, and privacy, to secure safety from fire, flood,
landslides and other geologic hazards and other dangers, and to prevent
overcrowding of the land and undue congestion of population;

D. Protect the character and the social and economic stability of all parts of the City and
to encourage the orderly and beneficial development of all parts of the municipality;

E. Protect and preserve the value of land throughout the City and the value of buildings
and improvements upon the land, and to minimize the conflicts among the uses of
land and buildings;

F. Guide public and private policy and action in order to provide adequate and efficient
transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, playgrounds, recreation, and other
public requirements and facilities;

G. Provide the most beneficial relationship between the uses of land and buildings and
the circulation of traffic and public transportation, throughout the City, having
particular regard to the avoidance of congestion in the streets, highways, and public
transportation, and the pedestrian traffic movements appropriate to the various uses
of land and buildings, and to provide for the proper location and width of streets and
building lines;

H. Establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for subdivisions, records of
survey, replats, and boundary line adjustments, in order to further the orderly layout
and use of land; and to insure proper legal descriptions and monumenting of
subdivided land;

|. Ensure that public facilities are available and will have a sufficient capacity to serve
the City's population and the proposed subdivision, replat, or boundary line
adjustment;

J. Prevent the pollution or degradation of air, streams, and ponds; to assure the
adequacy of drainage facilities; to safeguard the water table; to minimize site

disturbance, removal of native vegetation, and soil erosion; and to encourage the
wise use and management of natural resources throughout the municipality in order
to preserve the integrity, stability, and beauty of the community and the value of the
land;

K. Preserve the natural beauty and topography of the City and to insure appropriate
development with regard to these natural features;

L. Provide for open spaces through the most efficient design and layout of the land,
including the use of flexible density or cluster-type zoning in providing for minimum
width and area of lots, while preserving the density of land as established in this title
and Title 17 of this Code;

M. Minimize the number of boundary line disputes in the City and to eliminate existing
property line gaps and property line overlaps; and

N. Avoid poorly planned developments that:

1. Cannot be adequately served by existing utilities or public services;
2. May prove to be dangerous or unsafe;
3. May cause an undue burden on existing traffic or transportation services;
4, May require the future expenditure of public funds to correct problems
caused by the development.
16.01.020 Definitions.
For the purpose of this Title, certain abbreviations, terms, and words shall be used, interpreted
and defined as set forth herein. Words not included herein, but which are defined in Chapter
17-2, shall be construed as defined therein.
“Culinary Water Authority” has the definition provided in Utah Code Ann. 8 10-9a-103, as
amended.
“Review cycle” has the definition provided in Utah Code Ann. 8 10-9a-604.2, as amended.

“Sanitary Sewer Authority” has the definition provided in Utah Code Ann. 8 10-9a-103, as
amended.

“Subdivision improvement plans” has the definition provided in Utah Code Ann. 8 10-9a-604.2,
as amended.

“Subdivision improvement” means the required infrastructure, improvements, and municipally
controlled utilities required for a subdivision.

“Subdivision ordinance review” has the definition provided in Utah Code Ann. 8 10-9a-604.2, as
amended.

“Subdivision plan review” has the definition provided in Utah Code Ann. 8 10-9a-604.2, as
amended.

“Underground facility” has the definition provided in Utah Code Ann. 8 10-9a-603, as amended.
16.01.030 Applicability

Any division of real property located within Midvale City is subject to the terms of this Title.
However, if state law exempts a particular division of real property, then the state law governs.
The division of real property includes any sale, gift, transfer, conveyance, consolidation, split, or
other division that results in changing the boundaries or legal description of a given parcel or
lot of real property.

16.01.050 Violation of Subdivision Ordinance.

Unless otherwise specified by State law or this Title, the violation of any of the provisions of this
Chapter is a class C misdemeanor. This provision may not be used against City officers and staff
in their good faith attempts to administer and enforce the terms of this Title.

16.01.060 Fees.

Fees required by this Title must be paid in the amount set by the City Council.

16.01.070 Invalidity or Unconstitutionality.

Should any portion of this Title be found to be invalid or unconstitutional by a court of
competent jurisdiction, all remaining portions not found to be invalid or constitutional will
remain in full force and effect.

16.01.080 Unlawful Subdivision.

A. It is unlawful to transfer, sell, convey, gift, or assign any lot before a final subdivision
plat for the lot to be transferred, sold, conveyed, gifted, or assigned is approved and
recorded pursuant to the requirements of this Title and applicable State law.

B. Except as otherwise provided, all lots or parcels created by the subdivision of real
property must comply with the City’s lot size, lot width, lot depth, lot frontage, and
buildable area requirements, and must abut a public or private street.

C. No subdivision may leave a lot or parcel outside the subdivision without access to a
public street or a private street which the lot or parcel outside the subdivision has the
legal right to use.

D. Any applicant desiring to develop property that has been subdivided illegally must
comply with the requirements of this Title before developing the property, regardless
of whether or not the applicant was the one who illegally subdivided the property. No
building permit may be issued for real property that has been illegally subdivided
until the property has come into compliance with this Title. The restrictions of this
subsection do not apply to legally nonconforming lots.

E. It is unlawful to amend, vacate, alter, or modify any plat which has been approved
and/or recorded, without first receiving City approval of the amended, vacated,
altered, or modified plat.

F. It is unlawful to divide real property in such a way that a lot or parcel of property is
created or left behind that cannot be developed according to the requirements of
this Title, the City Zoning Ordinance, and other applicable laws, regardless of whether
or not a subdivision plat is required for the division. Examples of this type of violation
include, but are not limited to, nuisance or protection strips, parcels or lots created or
left for the sole purpose of denying another property owner access to his or her
property, parcels or lots with insufficient square footage, parcels or lots with
insufficient buildable area, parcels or lots that that do not meet the institutional
controls requirements under Title 8, Chapter 10 of the Midvale Municipal Code, and
parcels or lots that do not abut on a street.

G. All property must be developed in strict compliance with the approved preliminary
plat, the approved final plat, the approved construction drawings, the City’s

Construction Standards and Specifications, and all notes, restrictions, covenants,
dedications, boundaries, and other commitments shown on the approved
preliminary or final plat. Failure to note any improvement required by this Title or any
other part of the Midvale Municipal Code on the preliminary plat, final plat, or the
construction drawings will not eliminate the applicant's responsibility to complete
that improvement in the subdivision.

H. Itis unlawful to convey or to record any conveyance of any real property to the City
without following the appropriate processes outlined in this Title and in Section
18.01.030 of the Midvale Municipal Code or without otherwise obtaining the consent
of the City Council. Any such conveyance is voidable by the City.

16.01.090 Nonconforming Structures.

A subdivision that has the effect of rendering any existing structure nonconforming to current
City ordinances shall not be allowed. All property lines, streets and other improvements shall
be located in such a way as not to render any existing use or structure nonconforming.
However, an applicant may request a variance pursuant to Midvale Municipal Code Section
17-3-13.

16.01.100 Condominium Plat.

Each application for condominium on land that has never been subdivided shall be processed
as a new subdivision, including the preliminary plat and final subdivision process if new. Each
application for condominium on previously subdivided land shall be processed as an
amendment of plat.

16.01.110 Appeals.

Final decisions on applications under this Title may be appealed to the hearing officer
appointed pursuant to Midvale Municipal Code Section 17-5-3 and according to the processes
described in Midvale Municipal Code Section 17-3-14.

16.01.120 Pre-Application Meeting.

A. An applicant for a subdivision, record of survey, amended subdivision, boundary line
adjustment, plat vacation, or vacation of a public street may request to meet with the
Community Development Department to discuss the scope, purpose, procedures, and
requirements of the proposed subdivision and the requirements of this code.

ee

B. As part of the request for a pre-application meeting, the applicant must provide
drawings to the Community Development Department in sufficient detail to allow staff
to review the proposal for compliance with this code and to direct the applicant to the
appropriate process.

C. Within 15 days of the request for a pre-application meeting, City staff must schedule a
meeting to review the concept plan and provide initial feedback.

D. At the pre-application meeting, City staff must provide or have available on the
municipal website (i) copies of applicable land use regulations; (ii) a complete list of
standards required for the project; (iii) preliminary and final application checklists; and
(iv) feedback on the concept plan.

16.01.130 Overview of Subdivision Process.

The following paragraphs provide a brief overview of the subdivision approval process in
Midvale City. This Section is not intended to give an exhaustive review of the subdivision
process. More specific provisions relating to the approval process are found elsewhere in this
Title.

A. The applicant and their engineer are responsible for knowing and complying with the
provisions of this Title.

B. The applicant prepares a preliminary plat. See Midvale Municipal Code 16.02.030.

C. The applicant completes an application for preliminary plat approval, submits the
application, the preliminary plat, required supporting documents, and the applicable
fee to the Community Development Department. See Midvale Municipal Code
16.02.020.

D. The preliminary plat is reviewed by the Development Review Committee to
determine if it complies with applicable City ordinances, and the City Engineer
determines what public improvements are required. See Midvale Municipal Code
16.02.040(A) & (B).

E. The Planning Commission holds a public hearing on the preliminary plat and
approves or denies it. See Midvale Municipal Code 16.02.040(C).

rr

F, If the Planning Commission approves the preliminary plat, the applicant prepares a
final plat, completes an application for final plat approval, and submits the
application, the final plat, required supporting documents, and the applicable fee to
the Community Development Department. See Midvale Municipal Code 16.03.020.

G. The final plat is reviewed by the Development Review Committee. See Midvale
Municipal Code 16.03.040.

H. The applicant completes the required improvements or provides the appropriate
completion assurance for required improvements. See Midvale Municipal Code
16.03.050.

|. The Development Review Committee approves the final subdivision plat, and it is
signed by appropriate City personnel if it complies with all applicable laws. See
Midvale Municipal Code 16.03.040.

J. If the applicant provided completion assurance, the applicant completes the required
improvements within a year. See Midvale Municipal Code 18.01.020.

K. The City inspects the required improvements, and if they comply with the City’s
construction standards and a certificate of occupancy has been issued for a property
that relies on said public improvements, then the City accepts the improvements and
90% of the completion assurance is released. See Midvale Municipal Code 18.01.020.

L. If the required improvements remain free from defects through the required
warranty period, the rest of the completion assurance is released to the applicant.
See Midvale Municipal Code 18.01.020.

Chapter 16.02
Preliminary Plat
Sections:
16.02.010 Preliminary Plat Required.
16.02.020 Application for Preliminary Plat Approval.
16.02.030 Contents of Preliminary Plat.
16.02.040 Preliminary Plat Approval Process.

16.02.050 Design Standards.
16.02.060 Expiration of Preliminary Plat.
16.02.010 Preliminary Plat Required.

A. The purpose of the preliminary plat is to review and plan for the overall development
of the subdivision and the land surrounding the subdivision.

B. A preliminary plat must be approved for a parcel or lot before a final subdivision plat
can be approved for that parcel or lot. An applicant may request simultaneous
preliminary and final subdivision plat approval but bears the risk of having either or
both rejected.

16.02.020 Application for Preliminary Plat Approval.
The applicant shall prepare and submit the following in a format acceptable to the Community
Development Department:

A. The preliminary plat.

B. Fees sufficient to mail out appropriate notices for a public hearing.

C. Apreliminary title report prepared within 30 days of the application by a title
company licensed to practice in the State of Utah, which shows the owner of every
parcel or lot of land contained within the proposed subdivision.

D. Asigned affidavit or sworn statement in which each owner identified by the
preliminary title report provides consent to the proposed subdivision.

E. A grading plan containing the following information:

1. Property lines, street names, and existing and proposed buildings, walls,
fences, utilities, paved areas, and other site improvements; and

2. Existing and proposed contour lines and spot elevations. Contour lines must
show every one foot of change for grades less than 5%, every two feet of
change for grades more than 5% and less than 10%, and every five feet of
change for grades more than 10%.

Sp
3. Grade shall slope away from structures as required by the applicable building
code and shall comply with other building codes and standards adopted by
the City Engineer.

F. The fee for a preliminary subdivision application as passed by the City Council.

G. Subdivision improvement plans.

H. Any other documents related to the subdivision required by the City’s current,
published preliminary plat application.

16.02.030 Contents of Preliminary Plat.
The preliminary plat shall include the following:

A. Scale must be indicated on the plat. (Minimum scale: one inch equals fifty feet);

B. All proposed streets, alleys, parks, open spaces, and other offers of public
dedications, showing widths and pertinent dimensions of each;

C. An arrow indicating North drawn on each sheet;

D. Boundary dimensions and legal description of the entire subdivision;

E. The dimensions, legal description, and square footage of each lot;

F. Streets stubs into the subdivision;

G. Legend of symbols;

H. The dimensions and locations of existing and proposed survey monuments,
improvements, irrigations systems, structures, easements, exceptional topographical
features, and other important features such as rail lines and water lines within the
land to be subdivided and within one hundred feet of the proposed subdivision
boundaries;

|. Description of every existing right-of-way and recorded easement located within the
plat for:

1. An underground facility;
2. Awater conveyance facility; or
a ge

3. Any other utility facility; and
4. Any water conveyance facility located entirely or partially within the plat that:
a. Is not recorded; and
b. Of which the owner of the land has actual or constructive knowledge,
including from information made available to the owner of the land in
the state engineer's inventory of canals or from a surveyor.

J. Proposed subdivision name that is distinct from any subdivision name on a plat
recorded in the county recorder’'s office;

K. Name and address of the applicant, engineer or surveyor for the subdivision, and
owners of the land to be subdivided;

L. Streets, lots, and properties within one hundred feet surrounding the subdivision
shown in ghost lines and the owner names and parcel numbers of land immediately
adjacent to the subdivision;

M. A vicinity drawing accurately locating the property shown on the plat; and

- N. The location of existing structures within the preliminary plat boundaries and a
notation as to whether the existing structures will remain or be demolished.
16.02.040 Preliminary Plat Approval Process.

A. Review by City Staff. The members of the Development Review Committee shall
review the submitted application and plans for compliance with City code, state law,
and any other applicable law. The City Engineer will review the submitted application
to determine what public improvements are required. As part of its review, the City
must comply with the requirements of Utah Code Ann. 8 10-9a-603(3)(d), as
amended, regarding notice to facility owners of water conveyance facilities.

B. Review Cycles.

1. Fora residential subdivision for single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings,
or townhomes, the City must complete the initial review of the application,
including subdivision improvement plans, no later than 15 business days after

the day on which an applicant submits a complete preliminary plat
application.

2. In reviewing a preliminary plat the City may require (i) additional information
relating to an applicant's plans to ensure compliance with municipal
ordinances and approved standards and specifications for construction of
public improvements; and (ii) modifications to plans that do not meet current
ordinances, applicable standards or specifications, or do not contain complete
information. The City’s request for additional information or modifications to
plans under this Subsection must be specific and include citations to
ordinances, standards, or specifications that require the modifications to
plans, and must be logged in an index of requested modifications or
additions.

3. After the City has requested additional information or modifications to plans,
the applicant must provide revised plans to the City. In addition to revised
plans, the applicant must provide a written explanation in response to the
City's review comments, identifying and explaining the applicant's revisions
and reasons for declining to make revisions, if any. The applicant's written
explanation must be comprehensive and specific, including citations to
applicable standards and ordinances for the design and an index of requested
revisions or additions for each required correction. If an applicant fails to
address a review comment in the response, the review cycle is not complete
and the subsequent review cycle may not begin until all comments are
addressed. If an applicant makes a material change to a plan set, the City has
the discretion to restart the review process at the first review of the
application but only with respect to the portion of the plan set that the
material change substantively affects.

4. The City may require up to four review cycles for a preliminary plat
application. After the applicant has responded to the final review cycle, and
the applicant has complied with each modification requested in the City’s
previous review cycle, the City may not require additional revisions if the
applicant has not materially changed the plan, other than changes that were
in response to requested modifications or corrections. Unless a change or
correction is necessitated by the applicant's adjustment to a plan set or an

a
update to a phasing plan that adjusts the infrastructure needed for the
specific development, a change or correction not addressed or referenced in
the City’s review is waived. However, a modification or correction necessary to
protect public health and safety or to enforce state or federal law may not be
waived.

5. If, on the fourth or final review, the City fails to respond within 20 business
days, the City must, upon request of the property owner, and within 10
business days after the day on which the request is received:

a. For a dispute arising from the subdivision improvement plans,
assemble an appeal panel in accordance with Utah Code §
10-9a-508(5)(d) to review and approve or deny the final revised set of
plans; or

b. For a dispute arising from the subdivision ordinance review, advise the
applicant, in writing, of the deficiency in the application and of the
right to appeal the determination in accordance with Midvale City
Code Section 16.01.110.

6. If the applicant does not submit a revised plan within 20 business days after
the City requires a modification or correction, the City shall have an additional
20 days to respond to the plans.

C. Public Hearing. After the City Development Review Committee has determined that
the proposed subdivision complies with State law and City code or after four
complete review cycles, the Planning Commission will hold a public hearing on the
preliminary plat and must approve or deny the application. The public hearing must
be noticed as outlined in Midvale Municipal Code § 17-3-9 and in accordance with
State law.

16.02.050 Design Standards.

The following standards apply to all subdivisions within the City:

A. Lot Standards. All resulting lots shall comply with the lot standards for the zone
district. Lots shall be perpendicular to the street. Double frontage lots are prohibited

ee
