                                               MIDVALE CITY


                                        ORDINANCE No. 2024-0-05

 AN ORDINANCE AMENDING MIDVALE MUNICIPAL CODE SECTION 9.32.090 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
                                  IN PUBLIC PARKS AND PUBLIC PLACES.

        WHEREAS, as authorized by Utah Code Ann. § 10-8-84, the City Council is authorized to "pass
all ordinances and rules, and make all regulations, not repugnant to law, [ ... ] as are necessary and proper
to provide for the safety and preserve the health, and promote the prosperity, improve the morals, peace
and good order, comfort, and convenience of the city and its inhabitants, and for the protection of property
in the city"; and

        WHEREAS, as authorized by Utah Code Ann. § 32B-1-204, the City Council is "expressly granted
regulatory authority to regulate" issues related to alcoholic product control as provided by Title 32B and,
if Title 32B "does not expressly address an issue related to alcoholic product control , a local authority
may regulate that issue if the regulation: (a) is of the sale, offer for sale, furnishing , or consumption of an
alcoholic product; and (b) does not conflict with [Title 32B]"; and

        WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. Title 32B requires a person to receive written consent of the City prior
to applying for an alcohol license with the Department of Alcohol Beverage Services; and

       WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. § 328-4-421 prohibits a person from "consum[ing] liquor in a public
building, park, or stadium, except as provided by [Title 32B]"; and

        WHEREAS, as authorized by Utah Code Ann.§ 10-8-11 , the City Council is authorized to "regulate
the use of use of streets, alleys, avenues, sidewalks, crosswalks, parks, and public grounds;" and

       WHEREAS, the City Council regulates the sale, manufacture, wholesaling, and warehousing of
alcoholic beverages within Midvale City pursuant to Midvale Municipal Code 5.10.030; and

       WHEREAS, Midvale Municipal Code 9.32.090 currently prohibits the consumption and possession
ofany alcoholic beverage in any public park, public place, public building, stadium, street, alley, sidewalk,
and roadway; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council desires to activate Midvale Main Street by encouraging restaurants,
outdoor dining, community events and festivals, and other activities that will draw residents, businesses,
and visitors to Midvale Main Street; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council already permits the use of public spaces along Midvale Main Street
for outdoor dining and community events and festivals if the applicant has the appropriate permissions,
agreements, and licenses; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council believes that allowing the sale and consumption of alcohol in public
spaces, when properly permitted and regulated, will further encourage the activation of Midvale Main
Street; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council desires that any sale or consumption of alcohol in a public place be
appropriately regulated and overseen by the City and the Department of Alcohol Beverage Services; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council desires to provide for similar opportunities to use public places for
the sale and consumption of alcohol throughout the City as such opportunities potentially become
available in the future and with similar requirements for permissions, agreements, and licenses; and

        WHEREAS, based on the forgoing, the City Council finds it is appropriate and within the best
interest of the City to amend the Code to permit the consumption of alcohol in public places under
limited circumstances and with appropriate oversight and regulation.

         Now, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah as follows:

         Section 1.     The City Council desires to amend Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 9.32.090 as
set forth in Exhibit A.

       Section 2.       A violation of this ordinance includes the possibility of fines or imprisonment.
Midvale City is required, under Utah Code Annotated Section 788-22-301 , to provide for indigent legal
defense, as that term is defined in Utah Code Annotated Section 788-22-102.

        Section 3.     This ordinance is effective upon publication in accordance with Section 10-3-711
of the Utah Code.

         PASSED AND APPROVED this 2nd day of April, 2024.




                                                MIDVALE CITY


                                                By:~~~
                                                Mayor ~custever{son

[SEAL]                                          VOTING:

                                                Bryant Brown         Yea_ Nay V
                                                Dustin Gettel        Yea vNay __
                                                Paul Glover          Yea _ _ Nay ____IL°
                                                Heidi Robinson       Yea~Nay __
                                                Bonnie Billings      Yea ✓ Nay __

ATTEST:



~Ag:~
City Recorder


Published this /..ff<-,- day o f ~ ' 2024.
Code 9.32.090, Alcoholic beverages in public parks and public places                                            Page I of 1



9.32.090             Alcoholic beverages in public parks and public places.
A.    Definitions

     I.   " Public park," as contained in this Section, includes all parks owned and maintained by the City and
          all public school grounds and public playgrounds insofar as they are under the jurisdiction and control
          of the City.

     2.   " Alcoholic beverage" has the same definition as that found in Utah Code§ 32B-1-102{3) {I 953, as
          amended).

Ih_ Except as provided in Subsection (C), il t is unlawful for any person to consume beer or any alcoholic
beverage or to haYe iR his possessioR possess any beeF-ef-alcoholic beverage, except in a sealed container,- _
within any public place, public park, public building, stadium, street. alley, sidewalk, or roadway located
within the corporate limits of the ettyCity. 7

B. The term "~           park," as coRtaiReEI iR this sectioR, shall iReluEle§ all parks owReEI aREI maiRtaiReEI B)' the
city aREI all public school grouREls aREI public playgrouREls iRsofar as they same are uREler the jurisElictioR aREI
coRtrol of the city go\'ernmeRt.

" Alcoholic ee·,,erage" has the same ElefiRitioR as that fouREI iR Utah Cose § 32B         I 02(3) (I 953 , as ameREleEI).




C.   It is Rot a YiolatioR of this sectioRAn individual may consume an alcoholic beverage or possess an
alcoholic beverage in an unsealed container within a public place, public park, public building, stadium, street,
alley, sidewalk, or roadway located within the corporate Jim.its of the City if:

     I.   -tThe location of the consumption or possession of akehelthe alcoholic beverage is found within
          #lean approved site plan filed with the City by a licensee in accordance with Midvale Municipal Code
          5.10.040{8){3); and

     2.   Tthe licensee has complied with all state and local regulations governing the sale and distribution of
          alcoholic beverages. It is uRlav,,ful for aRy persoR to ElriRk aRy iRto*icatiRg liquor of aRy kiREI or to be
          uREler the iRtlueRce ofaR iRtoicicatiRg liquor, a coRa=olleEI suestaRce, or ofaRy suestaRce haviRg the
          property of releasiRg to*ic vapors iR BR)' public place, public euilEliRg, stadium , street, alley, sidewalk,
          roaEl·n'B)' or iR or upoR BR)' vehicle commoRI)' uses for the traRsportatioR of passeRgers withiR the
          corporate limits of the city.




D. Violation of this sectioR Section is a class C misdemeanor.




                 The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2023-04, passed February 7, 2023.
