                                 ORDINANCE NO. 2024-0-08

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLES 17-2-3 and 17-2-16 OF THE MIDVALE
MUNICIPAL CODE RELATED TO DEFINITIONS OF COMMERCIAL PARKING
LOTS, PARKING LOTS, PARKING STRUCTURES AND PRIVATE PARKING LOTS.

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated Sections 10-8-84 and 10-9a-501 through
10-9a-503, Midvale City ("the City") has authority to make and amend any regulation of or
within zoning districts or any other provision of the land use ordinance to promote the prosperity,
improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, convenience, and aesthetics of the
municipality; and

        WHEREAS, on January 2, 2002, the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance, Title 17 of the
Midvale City Municipal Code (the "Code"), became effective and is subject to amendments from
time to time pursuant to Section 17-3-1 the Code; and

         WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 16-04-010 of the Code, the City desires to promote the
protection of public health, life and safety; protect the character and social and economic
stability of all parts of the city; protect and preserve the value of land throughout the
municipality; guide public and private policy and action; establish responsible standards; prevent
pollution and degradation of air, streams, and ponds; preserve the natural beauty and topography ;
and provide for open spaces through the most effect design and layout of the land;

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 17-1-1 of the Code, the City desires to promote
coordinated development, redevelopment, effective use of land, and site planning; protect and
promote public safety, health, and general welfare by providing adequate light and air, water and
sewage control, police, fire and wetlands protection; and secure economy in governmental
expenditures; and

        WHEREAS, the City desires to amend Titles 17-2-3 and 17-2-16 relating to the
definitions of Commercial Parking Lots, Parking Lots, Parking Structures, and Private Parking
Lots; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on March 13, 2024, to
review the request for amendments and, after considering all the information received, made a
recommendation to approve the amendment request to the City Council; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on April 16,
2024 and

       WHEREAS, after taking into consideration citizen testimony, planning analysis, and the
Planning Commission's recommendation as part of its deliberations, the City Council finds it is
appropriate and within the best interest of the City to make changes to the Code.

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah
as follows:
       Section 1. The following sections of the Midvale City Municipal Code are hereby
       amended as included in the following attachments to this document:

           •    Attachment A: Amending Titles 17-2-3 and 17-2-16 relating to the definitions of
                Commercial Parking Lots, Parking Lots, Parking Structures, and Private Parking
                Lots.

       Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect upon the date of first publication.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 16th day of April, 2024.



                                             Marcus Stevenson, M      or
ATTEST:                                      Voting by City Council         "Aye"        "Nay"



~And~~~
                                             Bonnie Billings                  V
                                             Paul Glover                      V
                                             Heidi Robinson                   1L
                                             Bryant Brown                     i/
City Recorder                                Dustin Gettel                    V

Date of first publication: Afe.•( /   ~~
Attachment A:
Attachment A:
Your Selections - Midvale Municipal Code                                                      Page 1 of 13



17-2-3            "C" definitions.

"Cafe" means a coffeehouse or small restaurant where drinks and snacks are sold .

"Campaign sign" means a temporary sign used by candidates running for political and elected
offices in the city.

"Camping" means the temporary establishment of living facilities such as tents, RVs, travel
trailers, recreational coaches, or any other temporary living or dwelling for any period of time.
Camping on public property, including streets, parks and publicly owned lots, is prohibited.
Camping on private property is prohibited except as allowed in this title.

"Cannabis production establishment" means the same as that term is defined and amended in
Section 4-41a-102 of the Utah Code Annotated .

"Canopy" means a roof or awning constructed of non-rigid materials on a supporting
framework, architectural metal, or other material and extending outward from a building to
provide a protective shield for doors, windows, or other openings with supports extended to
the ground directly under the canopy or cantilevered from the building.

"Canopy sign" means a sign affixed or applied to the exterior facing su rface or surfaces of a
canopy.

"Capital improvements program" means a proposed schedule and description of all proposed
public works projects, listed in order of construction priority, together with cost estimates and
the anticipated means of financing each project.

"Carport" means a private garage not completely enclosed by walls or doors.

"Car wash" means a facility used to clean the exterior, and sometimes the interior, of
automobiles.

"Cemetery" means property used for the interring of the dead.

"Central Midvale neighborhood" is the neighborhood bounded by the State Street corridor to
the east, 1-15 to the west, Center Street to the north, and Wasatch Avenue to the south.




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2023-15, passed November 14, 2023.
Your Selections - Midvale Municipal Code                                                       Page 2 of 13


"Changeable copy sign (automatic)" means a sign on which the copy changes automatically on a
lamp bank or through mechanical means, e.g., electrical or electronic time and temperature
units.

"Changeable copy sign (manual)" means a sign on which copy is changed manually in the field,
e.g., reader boards with changeable letters.

"Channel letter sign" means a sign consisting of fabricated three-dimensional letters mounted
individually on a wall surface.

"Check cashing'' means cashing a check for consideration or extending a deferred deposit loan
and shall include any other similar types of businesses licensed by the state pursuant to the
Check Cashing Registration Act. No check cashing or deferred deposit loan business shall be
located within six hundred feet of any other check cashing business. Distance requirements
defined in this section shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening
structures or zoning districts, from the entry door of each business. One check cashing or
deferred deposit loan business shall be allowed for every ten thousand citizens living in Midvale
City. The term "check cashing" shall not include fully automated stand-alone services located
inside of an existing building, so long as the automated service incorporates no signage in the
windows or outside of the building.

"Child care" means the provision, day or night, of supplemental parental care, instruction and
supervision for a non-related child or children, on a regular basis, and for less than twenty-four
hours a day. The term does not include babysitting services on a casual, non-recurring nature
or in the child's own home nor cooperative, reciprocative child care by a group of parents in
their respective domiciles.

"Child care center" means the provision of child care for six or fewer children, including the
provider's children who are under the age of eighteen, within a dwelling unit.

"Child care facility" means the provision of child care for seven or more children including the
provider's children who are under the age of eighteen.

"Christmas tree sales" is defined as the sale of Christmas trees and related seasonal
merchandise from a temporary location.

Clear view area. See "Sight distance triangle."



         The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2023-15, passed November 14, 2023.
Your Selections - Midvale Municipal Code                                                     Page 3 of 13


Club, private. See "Private club."

"Collector street" means a street which serves or is designed to serve moderate flows of traffic,
such as 700 West Street, that collects from local streets and other collector streets and
connects with arterial streets.

"Colocation" means the location of a telecommunication facility on an existing structure, tower,
or building in a manner that precludes the need for that telecommunications facility to be
located on a freestanding structure of its own.

"Colony" or "hive" means an aggregate of bees consisting principally of workers, but having,
when perfect, one queen and at times many drones, including brood, combs, honey and the
receptacle inhabited by the bees.

"Commercial convenience store" means those commercial establishments known as
convenience stores, food marts, or c-stores and includes any retail establishment characterized
by a rapid turnover of customers and high traffic generation, offering for sale a relatively
limited line of prepackaged food products and snacks, household items, newspapers and
magazines, and sandwiches and other freshly prepared foods, such as salads, for off-site
consumption. Commercial convenience store does not include those uses classified as vehicle
filling stations, vehicle-related uses, or twenty-four-hour uses.

"Commercial kennel" means a shelter for or a place where over three dogs or cats are bred,
boarded, or trained for monetary gain.

"Commercial mixed-use" means development which incorporates a mix of uses, including retail
commercial, and/or offices and residential.

"Commercial nursery'' means a business where young plants or trees are raised for
experimental horticultural purposes, for transplanting, or for sale.

"Commercial parking lot" means a parking lot or structure primarily used for parking motor
vehicles for a fee, for a use that is not located on site, or for intermodal transfer facilities such
as park and ride lots or transit stations. A vehicle may not be parked in a commercial parking lot
for more than a total of 24 hours if the vehicle is inoperable. disassembled. dismantled. or in a
state of disrepair.




       The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2023-15, passed November 14, 2023.
Your Selections - Midvale Municipal Code                                                     Page 4 of 13


"Commercial recreation facilities" means recreation facilities operated as a business on private
or public property and open to the public for a fee.

"Commercial repair services" means repair of products, not to include vehicles or heavy
equipment. These uses include consumer repair services for individuals and households for
items such as household appliances, musical instruments, cameras, household electronic
equipment, and similar uses. Any other uses specifically listed within each particular zoning
district shall not be construed as falling within this generic definition.

"Commercial use" means an occupation, employment, or enterprise that is carried on to
facilitate an exchange of goods, services or ideas.

"Common area" means facilities, open space and yards under common ownership, identified
within projects, for the use and enjoyment of the residents.

"Common ownership" means ownership of the same property by different persons.

"Community council" means a neighborhood-based organization created for the purpose of
providing citizen input regarding planning and development issues, and other relevant city
business and decisions. Officially recognized community councils of the city include the Union
community council and the Midvale community council.

"Compatible" means when the characteristics of new development or a change in use integrate
with, relate to, and/or enhance the context of a surrounding area or neighborhood. Elements
affecting compatibility include, but are not limited to, height, scale, mass and bulk of buildings,
pedestrian and vehicular circulation, parking, landscaping and architecture, topography,
environmentally sensitive areas, and building patterns.

"Complete application" means a submission which includes all information requested on the
appropriate form and full payment of all applicable fees.

"Comprehensive mental health treatment" means a facility used to treat people with mental
illnesses of all ages and genders in a comprehensive manner.

"Conditional use" means a land use that, because of its unique characteristics or potential
impact on the municipality, surrounding neighbors, or adjacent land uses, may not be
compatible in some areas of a zone district, or may be compatible only if certain conditions are
required that mitigate or eliminate the detrimental impacts.



       The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2023-15, passed November 14, 2023.
Your Selections - Midvale Municipal Code                                                     Page 5 of 13


"Condominium" means any structure or parcel that has been submitted to fractionalize
ownership under the provisions of the Utah Condominium Ownership Act.

"Conservation activity" means a process to restore, enhance, protect, and sustain the quality
and quantity of ecosystems and natural resources.

"Constitutional taking" means final action by the city to physically take or exact private real
property that requires compensation to the owner because of the mandates of the Fifth or
Fourteenth Amendments to the Constitution of the United States, or Article l, Section 22, of the
Utah Constitution.

"Construction activity'' means all excavation, construction, mining, or other development activity
which disturbs or changes the natural vegetation, grade, or any existing structure, or the act of
adding an addition to an existing structure, or the erection of a new principal or accessory
structure on a lot or property.

"Construction mitigation plan" means a written description of the method by which an owner
will ameliorate the adverse impacts of construction activity to the surrounding area and/or
neighborhood.

"Construction plan" means the map and drawings showing the specific location and design of
the development.

"Construction sign" means a sign identifying an existing or proposed development project
which may contain the name of the project, name and address of construction firms, architect,
engineers, developers, etc.

"Coop" means a freestanding building for the sheltering of fowl.

"Copperview neighborhood" is the neighborhood bounded by the State Street corridor to the
east, 1-15 to the west, Midvale City boundary to the south, and Wasatch Avenue to the north.

"Corner lot'' means a lot situated at the intersection of two streets, the interior angle of such
intersection does not exceed one hundred thirty-five degrees.

"Cornice" means a horizontal molding projecting along the top of a wall or building.

"Council" means members of the city council of Midvale.

"County'' is the unincorporated area of Salt Lake County.

       The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2023-15, passed November 14, 2023.
Your Selections - Midvale Municipal Code                                                                    Page 6 of 13


Cover, site. See "Site cover."

"CPTED (Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design)" means guiding design principles for
creating safer built environments, incorporating natural surveillance, natural access control,
territorial enforcement, management and maintenance. Such principles are published by the
National Crime Prevention Council in the CPTED Handbook on file in the office of community
and economic development.

"Cul-de-sac" means a dead end street with an area for the safe and convenient reversal of
traffic.

"Cutoff-type luminaire" means a luminaire with shields, reflectors, refractors, or other such
elements that direct and cut-off emitted light at an angle less than ninety degrees. (Ord. 2020-02
§ 1 (Att. A (part)); Ord . 9/22/20090-15 § 1 (Att. A (part)); Ord. 6/16/20090-10 § 3 (part); Ord . 5/5/20090-8 § 1 (Att.

A (part)); Ord. 8/22/20060-14 § 1 (part); Ord . 7 /11 /20060-9 § 1 (pa rt); Ord . 3/07 /20060-1 § 1 (part); Ord.
8/10/20040-25 § 1(6) (part); Ord . 12-11-2001 C § 2 (part))




17-2-16             "P" definitions.

"Package agency'' means a retail liquor location operated under a contractual agreement with
the Utah Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control, by a person other than the state, who is
authorized by the commission to sell package liquor for consumption off the premises of the
agency.

"Parcel" means an unplatted unit of land described by metes and bounds and designated by the
county recorder's office w ith a unique tax identification number.

"Park neighborhood" means the neighborhood bounded by the State Street corridor to the
east, 1-15 to the west, 7200 South to the north, and Center Street to the south.

"Park strip" means an area of land usually located within the public right-of-way between the
sidewalk and the curb and gutter intended to buffer pedestrian areas from automotive areas.

Parking, public. See "Public parking."

Parking, residential. See "Residential parking."

Parking, shared . See "Shared parking."


           The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2023-15, passed November 14, 2023.
Your Selections - Midvale Municipal Code                                                     Page 7 of 13


"Parking area" means any public or private area, under or outside of a building or structure,
designed and used for parking motor vehicles.

Parking area, industrial. See "Industrial parking area."

"Parking area landscaping" means all spaces to be landscaped such as aisles, and drives as
defined by the top-back of curb or edge of pavement.

"Parking lot" means an unenclosed area or lot other than a street used or designed for the
parking of motor vehicles, under 12,000 pounds GVW, used for transportation of passengers
and light goods. A vehicle may not be parked in a parking lot for more than a total of 24 hours if
the vehicle is inoperable. disassembled. dismantled. or in a state of disrepair.

Parking lot, commercial. See "Commercial parking lot."

Parking lot, private. See "Private parking lot."

"Parking lot interior landscaping" means planting islands located within the parking area.

"Parking space" means a nine-by-eighteen-foot area maintained for parking or storing an
automobile or other vehicle, which is graded for proper drainage and is hard-surfaced or
porous paved.

"Parking structure" means a parking area other than a street with at least one level that is
partially or fully enclosed, located under a building or partially underground, and is used or
designed for the parking of motor vehicles, under 12,000 pounds GVW, used for transportation
of passengers and light goods. A veh icle may not be parked in a parking structure for more
than a total of 24 hours if the vehicle is inoperable. disassembled. dismantled. or in a state of
disrepair.

"Partially shielded luminaire" means a luminaire that is constructed so that no more than ten
percent of the light rays are emitted at angles above the horizontal plane, as certified by a
photometric test report.

"Pawn shop" means any person, firm, corporation, or business which loans money on deposit
of personal property, or deals in the purchase, exchange or possession of personal property on
condition of selling the same back again to the pledgor or depositor, or loans or advances
money on personal property by taking chattel mortgage security thereon, and takes or receives
such personal property.


       The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2023-15, passed November 14, 2023.
Your Selections - Midvale Municipal Code                                                       Page 8 of 13


"Pedestal sign" means a temporary and/or moveable sign supported by a column(s) and a base
so as to allow the sign to stand in an upright position.

"Pedestrian way'' means a street designed for the use of pedestrians, restricting vehicular use
to service and emergency vehicles, particularly in areas where double-edged retail commercial
is desired.

"Pennant" means a triangular tapering flag made of any lightweight fabric or other nonrigid
material, whether or not containing a message of any kind, suspended in a series from a rope,
wire or string.

"Perimeter landscaping" means planting areas between the property line, structure and parking
area.

"Permitted use" means any use allowed in a zoning district and subject to the restrictions
applicable to that zoning district.

"Person" means an individual, corporation, partnership, or incorporated association of
individuals such as a club.

"Personal athletic facility'' means athletic equipment or facilities dedicated to the use of the
property owners and their nonpaying guests. "Personal athletic facility" does not include any
athletic equipment or facilities used by paying customers or for which profit is made or
expected.

Planting Plan. A "planting plan" shall clearly and accurately identify and locate new and existing
trees, shrubs, ground covers, turf areas, driveways, sidewalks, hardscape features, and fences.

"Plant nursery" means a place or greenhouse where nursery stock is propagated, grown, stored,
cultivated, or offered for sale. Not more than two thousand five hundred square feet of any
property can be used as a plant nursery.

"Plat" means a map or other graphical representation of lands being laid out and prepared in
accordance with Utah Code Section 10-9-804.

"Pole banner sign" means a sign made of cloth, canvas or nylon attached vertically to a light
pole located on the property where the advertised use is conducted, product or commodity
sold, service performed, or business name is located .



        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2023-15, passed November 14, 2023 .
Your Selections - Midvale Municipal Code                                                       Page 9 of 13


                                     "Pole Banner Sign" Diagram




                                                   ...
                                                   ...




"Porch" means an open-air room appended to the mass of a building with a floor and roof, but
no walls on at least two sides.

"Porous paving'' means a substantial surfacing material designed and intended to support light
vehicular movement. "Porous paving'' includes paving systems such as modular pavers which
provide at least fifty percent surface exposure suitable for the establishment of plant materials
and which substantially abates surface water runoff. Gravel and/or compacted soil are not
"porous paving."

"Precipitation rate" means the depth of water applied to a given area, usually measured in
inches per hour.

"Pre-existing landscaping'' means landscaping, the installation of which preceded January 2,
2002.

"Pre-existing lighting" means outdoor lighting, the installation of which preceded January 2,
2002.

"Pre-existing lot" means a lot which was created prior to January 1, 1980, through a recorded
subdivision plat, deed, sales contract, or survey, and a lot which met the zoning regulations in
effect at the time of its creation. For the pu rposes of this title, a pre-existing lot is a
nonconforming lot and shall be regulated in the same manner as nonconforming lots.




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2023-15, passed November 14, 2023.
Your Selections - Midvale Municipal Code                                                      Page 10 of 13


"Pre-existing structure" means a structure which was legally constructed prior to January 2,
2002. For the purposes of this title, a pre-existing structure is a nonconforming structure and
shall be regulated in the same manner as nonconforming structures.

"Pre-existing use" means a use which validly existed prior to January 2, 2002, and has not been
abandoned for more than one year. For the purposes of this title, a pre-existing use is a
nonconforming use and shall be regulated in the same manner as nonconforming uses.

"Preliminary plat" means the preliminary drawings of a proposed subdivision specifying the
layout, uses, and restrictions.

"Primary dwelling" means the same as that term is defined in Section 10-9a-530 of the Utah
Code Annotated, as amended.

"Primary residence" means the dwelling unit an individual has established domicile pursuant to
Utah Administrative Code 884-24P-52, as amended.

"Principal building'' means a building within which the principal land use of the lot is conducted.
In the SF-1, SF-2, RM-12, RM-25 zoning districts, the largest dwelling is the principal building on
the lot on which it is situated.

"Private club" means any nonprofit corporation, or organization, operating as a social club,
recreational, fraternal, athletic or kindred association organized primarily for the benefit of its
stockholders or members and serving alcoholic beverages and/or food.

"Private kennel" means a shelter for or a place where over three and no more than five dogs
and cats are bred, boarded, or trained for no monetary gain.

"Private parking lot" means a parking lot or structure intended for the exclusive use of the
owners, tenants, lessees, or occupants of the lot on which the parking area is located or their
customers, employees, or whomever else they permit to use the parking area. A vehicle may
not be parked in a private parking lot for more than a total of 24 hours if the vehicle is
inoperable. disassembled. dismantled. or in a state of disrepair.

"Private street'' means a street owned by an individual, association or other nongovernmental
group.




         The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2023-15, passed November 14, 2023.
Your Selections - Midvale Municipal Code                                                       Page 11 of 13


"Prohibited use" means a use that is not permitted or allowed to be established in a zone. Any
use not specifically listed as an allowed use, an administrative conditional use or a conditional
use is prohibited in that zone.

"Projecting sign" means a sign attached to a building or canopy and extending in whole or part
more than twenty-four inches beyond any wall of the building or canopy.

"Promotional signboard" means a permanently attached changeable copy sign not exceeding
twenty square feet per face with one or two faces back-to-back for the display of promotional
items offered for sale on the premises.

"Property'' means any parcel, lot, or tract of land, including improvements thereon, in the
possession of or owned by, or recorded as the real property of, the same person or persons.

"Property line" means the boundary line of a parcel or lot.

Property line, front. See "Front property line."

"Property sign" means a sign related to the property upon which it is located and offering such
information as address, name of occupant for residential uses, sale or lease of the property,
warning against trespassing, any hazard, or other danger on the property.

"Public building" means a building constructed, or intended for use, by the general public such
as a library, museum, or building of any political subdivision of the state of Utah or the United
States.

"Public improvement" means any building, water system drainage ditch, roadway, parkway,
sidewalk, pedestrian way, tree, lawn, off-street parking lot, space or structure, lot improvement,
or other facility for which the city may ultimately assume responsibility or which may effect a
city improvement.

"Public improvement bond" means a one year guarantee to the city that all public
improvements have been installed to city specifications and will operate properly.

"Public parking" means a parking area or parking facility to be used by the public for fee or
otherwise.

"Public recreation facilities" means recreation facilities operated by a public agency and open to
the general public with or without a fee.


          The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2023-15, passed November 14, 2023.
Your Selections - Midvale Municipal Code                                                                  Page 12 of 13


"Public street'' means a street, including the entire right-of-way, which has been dedicated to
and accepted by the city or other governmental agency or which has been devoted to public
use by legal mapping, use or other means.

"Public street'' means a street that has been dedicated to and accepted by the city council; that
the city has acquired and accepted by prescriptive right; or that the city owns in fee.

"Public use" means a use operated exclusively by a public body to serve the public health,
safety, or general welfare.

Public utilities, major. See "Major public utilities."

Public utilities, minor. See "Minor public utilities."

"Public utility'' means an organization and/or operation authorized to provide to the community
water, gas, electric, power, telephone and other like services.

"Pylon sign" means a sign affixed in or upon the ground supported by one or more structural
members, with air space between the ground and the bottom of the sign face. (Ord . 2021-19 § 1
(Att. A); Ord. 2/2/20100-1 § 1(1 ); Ord. 7 /11 /20060-9 § 1 (part); Ord. 11 /23/20040-34 § 1(4) (part); Ord .
10/28/20030-11 § 1(8) (part); Ord. 12/03/2002A § 1 (part); Ord. 12-11-2001 C § 2 (part))




The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2023-15, passed November 14,
2023.

Disclaimer: The city clerk's office has the official version of the Midvale Municipal Code. Users
should contact the city clerk's office for ordinances passed subsequent to the ordinance cited
above.

City Website: www.midvalecity.org

Hosted by Code Publishing Company. A General Code Company.




         The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2023-15, passed November 14, 2023.
Your Selections - Midvale Municipal Code                                                    Page 13 of 13




       The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2023-15, passed November 14, 2023.
