                                 ORDINANCE NO. 2024-0-30

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTIONS 16.02.020 AND 16.02.030 RELATING TO
PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISIONS, AND SECTIONS 16.03.020 AND 16.03.030
RELATING TO FINAL SUBDIVISIONS OF THE MIDVALE CITY MUNICIPAL CODE
REMOVING THE REQUIREMENT TO SHOW EXISTING STRUCTURES ON PLATS
AND INSTEAD REQUIRING A SITE PLAN DETAILING EXISTING STRUCTURES
AS PART OF THE APPLICATION DOCUMENTS.

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated Sections 10-8-84 and 10-9a-501 through
10-9a-503, Midvale City ("the City") has authority to make and amend any regulation of or
within zoning districts or any other provision of the land use ordinance to promote the prosperity,
improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, convenience, and aesthetics of the
municipality; and

        WHEREAS, on January 2, 2002, the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance, Title 17 of the
Midvale City Municipal Code (the "Code"), became effective and is subject to amendments from
time to time pursuant to Section 17-3-1 the Code; and

         WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 16.01.010 of the Code, the City desires to promote the
protection of public health, life and safety; protect the character and social and economic
stability of all parts of the city; protect and preserve the value of land throughout the
municipality; guide public and private policy and action; establish responsible standards; prevent
pollution and degradation of air, streams, and ponds; preserve the natural beauty and topography;
and provide for open spaces through the most effect design and layout of the land;

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 17-1-1 of the Code, the City desires to promote
coordinated development, redevelopment, effective use of land, and site planning; protect and
promote public safety, health, and general welfare by providing adequate light and air, water and
sewage control, police, fire and wetlands protection; and secure economy in governmental
expenditures; and

        WHEREAS, the City desires to amend Sections 16.02.020 and 16.02.030 relating to
Preliminary Subdivisions, and Sections 16.03.020 and 16.03.030 relating to Final Subdivisions
removing the requirement to show existing structures on plats and instead requiring a site plan
detailing existing structures as part of the application documents; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on November 13 , 2024, to
review the request for amendments and, after considering all the information received, made a
recommendation to approve the amendment request to the City Council; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on December
3, 2024 and

       WHEREAS, after taking into consideration citizen testimony, planning analysis, and the
Planning Commission's recommendation as part of its deliberations, the City Council finds it is
appropriate and within the best interest of the City to make changes to the Code.

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah
as follows:

       Section I. The following sections of the Midvale City Municipal Code are hereby
       amended as included in the following attachments to this document:

           •   Attachment A: Amending Sections 16.02.020 and 16.02.030 relating to
               Preliminary Subdivisions, and Sections 16.03.020 and 16.03.030 relating to Final
               Subdivisions removing the requirement to show existing structures on plats and
               instead requiring a site plan detailing existing structures as part of the application
               documents.

       Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect upon the date of first publication.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 3 day of December, 2024.




                                              Voting by City Council          "Aye"           "Nay"
                                              Bonnie Billings                    '~/
                                              Paul Glover                        1/
                                              Heidi Robinson                     t,.L
                                              Bryant Brown                       1/
                                              Dustin Gettel                      v
Date of first publication:
Attachment A:
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 16.02, Preliminary plat                                             Page 1 of 3




16.02.020         Application for preliminary plat approval.

The applicant shall prepare and submit the following in a format acceptable to the community
development department:

A. The preliminary plat.

B. Fees sufficient to mail out appropriate notices for a public hearing.

C. A preliminary title report prepared within thirty days of the application by a title company
licensed to practice in the state of Utah, which shows the owner of every parcel or lot of land
contained within the proposed subdivision .

D. A signed affidavit or sworn statement in which each owner identified by the preliminary title
report provides consent to the proposed subdivision .

E. A grading plan containing the following information:

     1. Property lines, street names, and existing and proposed buildings, walls, fences,
     utilities, paved areas, and other site improvements; and

    2. Existing and proposed contour lines and spot elevations. Contour lines must show
    every one foot of change for grades less than five percent, every two feet of change for
    grades more than five percent and less than ten percent, and every five feet of change for
    grades more than ten percent.

    3. Grade shall slope away from structures as required by the applicable building code and
    shall comply with other building codes and standards adopted by the city engineer.

F. A site plan showing the location of existing structures within the preliminary plat boundaries
and a notation as to whether the existing structures will remain or be demolished .

.G.,_The fee for a preliminary subdivision application as passed by the city council.

.tiG. Subdivision improvement plans.

l~- Any other documents related to the subdivision required by the city's current, published
preliminary plat application . (Ord. 2024-01 § 1 (Att. A))


           The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-19, passed June 4, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 16.02, Preliminary plat                                             Page 2 of3


16.02.030         Contents of preliminary plat.

The preliminary plat shall include the following:

A. Scale must be indicated on the plat. (Minimum scale: one inch equals fifty feet);

B. All proposed streets, alleys, parks, open spaces, and other offers of public dedications,
showing widths and pertinent dimensions of each;

C. An arrow indicating north drawn on each sheet;

D. Boundary dimensions and legal description of the entire subdivision;

E. The dimensions, legal description, and square footage of each lot;

F. Street stubs into the subdivision;

G. Legend of symbols;

H. The dimensions and locations of existing and proposed survey monuments, improvements,
irrigation systems, structures, easements, exceptional topographical features, and other
important features such as rail lines and water lines within the land to be subdivided and within
one hundred feet of the proposed subdivision boundaries;

I. Description of every existing right-of-way and recorded easement located within the plat for:

    1. An underground facility;

    2. A water conveyance facility; or

    3. Any other utility facility; and

    4. Any water conveyance facility located entirely or partially within the plat that

         a. Is not recorded; and

         b. Of which the owner of the land has actual or constructive knowledge, including
         from information made available to the owner of the land in the state engineer's
         inventory of canals or from a surveyor;

J. Proposed subdivision name that is distinct from any subdivision name on a plat recorded in
the county recorder's office;

           The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-19, passed June 4, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 16.02, Preliminary plat                                             Page 3 of3


K. Name and address of the applicant, engineer or surveyor for the subdivision, and owners of
the land to be subdivided;

L. Streets, lots, and properties within one hundred feet surrounding the subdivision shown in
ghost lines and the owner names and parcel numbers of land immediately adjacent to the
subdivision;

M. A vicinity drawing accurately locating the property shown on the plat; and

N. The location of existing structures within the preliminary plat boundaries and a notation as
to whether the existing structures 'Nill remain or be demolished. (Ord . 2024 01 § 1 (Att. AH




           The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-19, passed June 4, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 16.03, Final Subdivision                                         Page 1 of 3




16.03.020         Application for final subdivision plat approval.

The applicant shall prepare and submit the following in a format acceptable to the community
development department:

A. The final plat;


B. A preliminary title report prepared within thirty days of the application by a title company
licensed to practice in the state of Utah that shows the owner of every parcel or lot of land
contained within the proposed subdivision or a signed affidavit or sworn statement by each
owner identified by the preliminary title report used for the preliminary plat in which each
owner affirms that title for the property has not changed ownership;

C. The fee for a final subdivision application as passed by resolution by the city council;

D. Construction drawings showing existing ground and/or asphalt elevations, planned grades
and elevations of proposed improvements, and the location of all public utilities. Improvements
shown on the construction drawings shall be in accordance with the preliminary plat;

    1. The city engineer may adopt a policy governing additional requirements for
    construction drawings. All construction drawings shall have the designing engineer or
    architect state license seal stamped on all submitted sheets. No final plat may be approved
    by the city engineer until the construction drawings have been approved by the city
    engineer;

E. A tax clearance, indicating that all taxes, interest, and penalties owing on the land have been
paid;

F. A site plan showing the location of existing structures within the final plat boundaries.

_G.J;. For a condominium application, a signed affidavit by an attorney who is licensed to
practice in Utah that states that the condominium declaration, the record of survey map and
the other supporting documentation comply in all respects with the Utah Condominium
Ownership Act (Utah Code Annotated Section 57-8-1 et seq.) as well as all applicable federal,
state and local laws and ordinances and that when the condominium declaration and survey




         The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-26, passed October 1, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 16.03, Final Subdivision                                            Page 2 of3


map have been recorded in the office of the Salt Lake County recorder that the proposed
project will be a validly existing and lawful condominium project in all respects; and

.l::!.G-. Any other documents related to the subdivision required by the city's current, published
final subdivision application . (Ord. 2024-01 § 1 (Att. A))




16.03.030           Contents of final plat.

The final plat shall include the following:

A. All features required by Section 16.02.030;

B. Streets indicating numbers and/or names and lots addressed and numbered consecutively;

C. Boundary dimensions and legal description of the subdivision and each lot therein which
close within one-hundredth of one foot with point of beginning clearly labeled;

D. Location, width, centerlines bearings and curve data (including delta angle, radius, length,
tangent, and the long chord on curves) and other dimensions of all existing proposed or platted
streets and easements;

E. Location, width, centerlines bearings and curve data (including delta angle, radius, length,
tangent, and the long chord on curves) and other dimensions of all important features such as
rail lines, water lines, and exceptional topography, and structures within the proposed area and
within a one-hundred-foot perimeter of the subdivision. Water system features must appear on
the plat;

F. Signature boxes for the following:

     1. Surveyor's stamped certificate with subdivision boundary legal description;

     2. Owner's dedication signed by all owners of any property on the plat;

     3. Salt Lake County health department approval;

     4. Community development director approval;

     5. Planning commission chair approval;



            The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-26, passed October 1, 2024.
