                                 ORDINANCE NO. 2024-0-19

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTIONS 17-7-11.3(B)(4)(g) RELATING TO
REDUCING REQUIREMENTS BETWEEN OUTDOOR DINING AND EXISTING
RESIDENTIAL USES IN THE MAIN STREET FORM-BASED CODE OF THE
MIDVALE CITY MUNICIPAL CODE.

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated Sections 10-8-84 and 10-9a-501 through
10-9a-503, Midvale City ("the City") has authority to make and amend any regulation of or
within zoning districts or any other provision of the land use ordinance to promote the prosperity,
improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, convenience, and aesthetics of the
municipality; and

        WHEREAS, on January 2, 2002, the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance, Title 17 of the
Midvale City Municipal Code (the "Code"), became effective and is subject to amendments from
time to time pursuant to Section 17-3-1 of the Code; and

         WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 16-04-010 of the Code, the City desires to promote the
protection of public health, life and safety; protect the character and social and economic
stability of all parts of the city; protect and preserve the value of land throughout the
municipality; guide public and private policy and action ; establish responsible standards; prevent
pollution and degradation of air, streams, and ponds; preserve the natural beauty and topography;
and provide for open spaces through the most effect design and layout of the land;

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 17-1-1 of the Code, the City desires to promote
coordinated development, redevelopment, effective use of land, and site planning; protect and
promote public safety, health, and general welfare by providing adequate light and air, water and
sewage control, police, fire and wetlands protection; and secure economy in governmental
expenditures; and

       WHEREAS, the City desires to amend Section 17-7-1 l.3(B)(4)(g) relating to reducing
requirements between Outdoor Dining and existing residential uses in the Main Street Form-
Based Code; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on April 24, 2024, to
review the request for amendments and, after considering all the information received, made a
recommendation to approve the amendment request to the City Council; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on June 4,
2024, and

       WHEREAS, after taking into consideration citizen testimony, planning analysis, and the
Planning Commission's recommendation as part of its deliberations, the City Council finds it is
appropriate and within the best interest of the City to make changes to the Code.
        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah
as follows:

                  Section 1. The following sections of the Midvale City Municipal Code are hereby
                  amended as included in the following attachments to this document:

                            •        Attachment A: Amending Section 17-7-11.3(B)(4)(g) relating to reducing
                                     requirements between Outdoor Dining and existing residential uses in the Main
                                     Street Form-Based Code.

                   Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect upon the date of first publication.

                   PASSED AND APPROVED this 4th day of June, 2024.



                                                                       t#~~
                                                                      Marcus Stevenson,May~


                                                                      Voting by City Council   "Aye"           "Nay"
                                                                      Bonnie Billings            v
                                                                      Paul Glover                1/
                                                         a,,J{'----   Heidi Robinson             ,/
---'--\--"--'"-"------"'---"'........,ec-   --'-------'---'----
    i Andreason, MMC                                                  Bryant Brown               .,.........
City Recorder                                                         Dustin Gettel              v-

Date of first publication ~(,Jd S 7-DW
                                                                  I
Attachment A:
Midvale Municipal Code Section 17-7-11.3, Uses                                                  Page 1 of 1




17-7-11.3         Uses.


B. Specific Use Provisions.

    4. Outdoor Dining. Each application for an outdoor dining use shall comply with the
    following:

         a. The dining area shall be located on private property or leased public property and
         shall not diminish required parking or landscaping.

         b. The dining area shall not impede pedestrian circulation .

         c. The dining area shall not impede emergency access or circulation.

         d. The outdoor furnishings shall be compatible with the streetscape and associated
         building.

         e. No music or noise shall be in excess of the city noise ordinance. Outdoor music
         shall not be audible off premises.

         f. No use after ten-thirty p.m. and before seven a.m.

         g. No part of the outdoor dining area shall be located within one hundredtwenty feet
         of any existing res idential use (measured from the edge of the outdoor dining area to
         the closest property line of the residential use), unless the residential use is part of a
         mixed-use building or the outdoor dining area is separated from the residential use by
         a commercial building.

         h. Cooking facilities shall be located within the primary building. No cooking utilities,
         including grills, shall be permitted in the outdoor dining area.

         i. The outdoor dining area shall be kept in a clean condition and free of litter and food
         items which constitute a nuisance to public health, safety and welfare.




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-02, passed February 27, 2024.
