                                 ORDINANCE NO. 2024-0-11

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTIONS 17-7-7.1, 17-7-7.4, 17-7-7.5, AND 17-7-7.8
RELATING TO THE PURPOSE, LOT AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS,
ARCIDTECTURAL STANDARDS, AND PARKING IN THE STATE STREET
COMMERCIAL ZONE OF THE MIDVALE CITY MUNICIPAL CODE.

        WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated Sections 10-8-84 and 10-9a-50 l through
10-9a-503, Midvale City ("the City") has authority to make and amend any regulation of or
within zoning districts or any other provision of the land use ordinance to promote the prosperity,
improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, convenience, and aesthetics of the
municipality; and

        WHEREAS, on January 2, 2002, the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance, Title 17 of the
Midvale City Municipal Code (the "Code"), became effective and is subject to amendments from
time to time pursuant to Section 17-3-1 the Code; and

         WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 16-04-010 of the Code, the City desires to promote the
protection of public health, life and safety; protect the character and social and economic
stability of all parts of the city; protect and preserve the value of land throughout the
municipality; guide public and private policy and action; establish responsible standards; prevent
pollution and degradation of air, streams, and ponds; preserve the natural beauty and topography;
and provide for open spaces through the most effect design and layout of the land;

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 17-1-1 of the Code, the City desires to promote
coordinated development, redevelopment, effective use of land, and site planning; protect and
promote public safety, health, and general welfare by providing adequate light and air, water and
sewage control, police, fire and wetlands protection; and secure economy in governmental
expenditures; and

        WHEREAS, the City desires to amend Sections 17-7-7.1 , 17-7-7.4, 17-7-7.5, and 17-7-
7.8 of the State Street (SSC) zone relating to the Purpose, Lot and Development Standards,
Architectural Standards, and Parking in the State Street Commercial zone ; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on April 10, 2024, to
review the request for amendments and, after considering all the information received, made a
recommendation to approve the amendment request to the City Council; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on May 7,
2024 and

       WHEREAS, after taking into consideration citizen testimony, planning analysis, and the
Planning Commission ' s recommendation as part of its deliberations, the City Council finds it is
appropriate and within the best interest of the City to make changes to the Code.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah
as follows:

        Section 1. The following sections of the Midvale City Municipal Code are hereby
        amended as included in the following attachments to this document:

              •   AttachmentA:AmendingSections 17-7-7.1 , 17-7-7.4, 17-7-7.5,and 17-7-7.8of
                  the State Street (SSC) zone relating to the Purpose, Lot and Development
                  Standards, Architectural Standards, and Parking in the State Street Commercial
                  zone.

        Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect upon the date of first publication.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this ]..J.-'L.day of_~~'-+-- - -' 2024.


                                                    ~~~
                                                   Marcus Stevenson, Mayor


ATTEST:                                             oting by City Council    "Aye"        "Nay"
                                                   Bonnie Billings             1/
                                                   Paul Glover                               v
                                                   Heidi Robinson               v
                                                   Bryant Brown                 ......-
                                                   Dustin Gettel                ...-
Date of first publication: N\),.I
                                 <
                                     <l: l11flJ+
Attachment A:
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-7, State Street Zone (SSC)                                       Page 1 of 5




                                           Chapter 17-7-7
                                  STATE STREET ZONE (SSC)

Sections:
  17-7-7.1        Purpose.
  17-7-7.4        Lot and development standards.
  17-7-7.5        Architectural standards.
  17-7-7.8        Parking.



17-7-7.1           Purpose.

This chapter provides stan dards for the development of land parcels within the State Street
zone and is intended to facilitate development that promotes quality growth. fosters
complementary development. increases property values and catalyzes new opportunities for
retail. residential. and other commercial uses. This chapter informs owners of the standards
that will be applied in approving or disapproving proposed developments. The goal is to:

A. Facilitate transition of the State Street corridor from underdeveloped commercial parcels to
a more vibrant mix of commercial and residential uses;

B. Provide an identifiable entry corridor for the city;

C. Assure and enhance the investment of State Street property owners;


D. Promote economic development;

E. Protect surrounding neighborhoods from the potential adverse effects of more intense land
uses; and

F. Require thematic landscaping to provide a distinctive visual quality to the area. (Ord.
11-20-2001 § 2 (part))


G. Promote enhancement of building frontages and side yards to activate storefronts and
ground level facades to increase sidewalk widths to provide additional space for gathering
dining shopping and other amenities which encourage a walkable pedestrian realm.                                   [ Formatted : Font: 9 pt




            The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2023-10, passed June 20, 2023.
Midva le Munici pal Code Chapter 17-7-7, State Street Zone (SSC)                                       Page 2 of5


17-7-7.4           Lot and development standards.

The following development standards apply to all new development in the zone:

A. Setbacks. New development shall comply with the following setbacks:

     1. Front. The minimum front yard setback is .tenfi4@@A feet, which shall consist of a
     ten -foot wide sidewalk, a five foot park strip, amJ tree ,,..,ells, s1o1bject w the following
     e~ceptions:with tree wells and other urban design amenities. Additional setback beyond
     ten feet are eornura!Jed is permitted if they additional area provides space for outdoor
     dining gathering shopping. or other activating uses outlined in this EChapter. Setbacks
     beyond ten feet are subject to the following exceptions:

          a. Corner Lot Rule. Corner lots have two front yards, with a .tentwenty fi,;e foot setback.

          b. Projections. Skylights, sills, cornices, chimneys, flues and ornamental features may
          project into the front yard up to two and one-half feet. Eaves and awnings may project
          into the front yard up to eight feet so long as the eaves or awnings are at least eight
          feet above ground.

     2. Side. There is no side setback requi rement, except as required by the International
     Building Code and landscape buffers. Allowed uses within the side setback include outdoor
     dining. gathering and shopping.

     3. Rear. There is no rear setback requirement, except as required by the International
     Building Code and landscape buffers.




                          Table 17-7-7.4. Lot and Development Standards


                                                            Impervious
                                                                              Setbacks
                              Lot      Lot        Max.       Surface/                        Build-To      Height
     Building Type
                             Width    Depth    Footprint                                       Line         Max.
                                                                          Front/Side/Rear
                                                             Coverage



Commercial    Standards      50'      100'     n/ a         Up to 80%     J..Q~·, o·,~   ·   J..Q~'/?:     55' t o
                                                            coverage of                      50% of



           The Midvale Mun icipal Cod e is current through Ord inance 2023-10, passed June 20, 2023.
Midvale Mu nicipal Code Chapter 17-7-7, State Street Zone (SSC)                                            Page 3 of 5



                                                               Impervious
                                                                                    Setbacks
                                 Lot     Lot          Max.      Surface/                        Build-To        Height
     Building Type
                                Width   Depth      Footprint                                        Line         Max.
                                                                             Front/Side/Rear
                                                                Coverage


                                                               lot area                         the front       cornice
                                                                                                facade
                                                                                                                52' flat
                                                                                                w/ 3' of
                                                                                                BTL


               Exceptions       No      2 80' if   No          No            F: Projection s    ~      ·,GO!    35' w/
                                        lot                                  2.5'               for             50' SF
                                        wi dth                               Awnings 8'         corner
                                                                                                lots
                                        2 75'                                SIR: Stairs and
                                                                             balconies s 3'

                                                                             Corner 2 FY 25'


               Standards        50'     100'       20,000      Up to 80%     J_Q;W'/0'/~   '    J.Q;W'/ 2       75' to
                                                   s.f.        coverage of                      50% of          cornice
                                                               lot area                         t he front
                                                                                                                72' flat
                                                                                                faca de
                                                                                                w/ 3' of
                                                                                                BTL


               Exceptions       No      2 80' if   No          No            F: Projection s    ~      ',/30'   35' w/
Mixed-Use
                                        lot                                  2.5'               for             50' SF
                                        width                                                   corner
                                                                             Awnings 8'
                                        2 75'                                                   lots

                                                                             SIR: Sta irs and
                                                                             balconies s 3'

                                                                             MU parki ng

                                                                             Corner 2 FY 25'


(Ord. 11-20-200 1 § 2 (part))




            The Midvale Mun ic ipal Code is current t hrough Ord ina nce 2023-10, passed June 20, 2023.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-7, State Street Zone (SSC)                                         Page 4 of 5


17-7-7.5              Architectural standards.
8. Walls. All exterior walls shall be constructed in compliance with the following:

    3. Facades. Each facade facing a public right-of-way or a pedestrian pathway shall shift at                  ◄    Formatted: Normal, Indent: Left: 0.29", Don't adjust
                                                                                                                      space between Latin and Asian text, Don't adjust spa ce
    least five feet every thirty linear feet. No facade facing a public right-of-way or a pedestrian
                                                                                                                      between Asian text and numbers
    pathway shall be blank (without fenestration) for more than thirty feet. For building sides
    so· in length building breaks in the fa,ade are required These may include building
    articulations. balconies. or changes in material.

H. Corner Lot Improvements. 11\'here appropriate. NRew development of corner lots shall include
curb extensions in conjunction with on-street parking. All curb cuts shall be placed on each
street frontage. and not at a central location at the apex of the corner radius . Building corners
must be enhanced by utilizing at least three of the following: railings coordinated pavers. public
art signage lighting or planters

I. Street Furniture. Each new mixed-use or pedestrian-oriented commercia l development shall
include all-weather benches and sha ll incorporate trash receptac les and ra ised planters along
the front facades of structures. interior to the development. Street furniture shall coordinate
with one another and with adjacent mixed-use developments. and shall not be used for
advertisement. Sidewalk dining is allowed on am • street to wjthio fi" e feet of the rnrb

I Outdoor Dining Outdoor dining is allowed provided it on any street upon approval of the Cit)'
!Oach application for an outdoor dining use shall compl iesy with the fo llowing:

     1. The dining area shall be located on private property or leased public property and shall ◄                   [ Formatted: Indent: Left: 0.31"

     not diminish requ ired parking or landscaping

     2. The dining area sha ll not impede pedestrian circu lation or emergency access. A
     minimum of a 5 foot walk aisle must be provided.T

     3. The dining area shall not impede emergency access or circulation.

     4. The outdoor furnishings sha ll be compatible with the streetscape and associated
     b..uiJ..d.i.o&
     5. No music or noise shall be in excess of the City noise ordinance. Outdoor music sha ll
     not be aud ible off premises.

     6 No use after ten-thirty pm and before seven a.m.

             The Midva le Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2023-10, passed June 20, 2023.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-7, State Street Zone (SSC)                                      Page 5 of 5


     7 No part of the outdoor dining area shall be located within twentyone hundred feet of
     any existing residential use <measured from the edge of the outdoor dining area to the
     closest property line of the residential use). unless the residential use is part of a
     mixed-use building or the outdoor dining area is separated from the residential use by a
     commercial building.

     8. Cooking facilities shall be located within the primary building No cooking utilities.
     including grills. shall be permitted in the outdoor dining area.

     9. The outdoor dining area shall be kept in a clean condition and free of litter and food
     items which constitute a nuisance to public health. safety and welfare




17-7-7.8          Parking.
C. Parking Ratio Requirements for Specific Land Use Categories. All new development shall
provide parking according to the following standards. If a project incorporates two uses, the
use requiring the higher number of parking spaces shall govern . Whenever the ca lculation
results in a fractional number, the number of spaces required must be rounded up to the next
whole number.

    4. Street Access and Circulation. New commercial development shall provide the following:

         a. Off-Street Parking. Off-street parking areas must have unobstructed access to a
          street or alley. The parking area design for five or more vehicles must not encourage
          cars to back onto adjoining public sidewalks, parking strips, or roadways. With the
          exception of permitted tandem parking, parking spaces shall be independently
          accessible and unobstructed. All off-street and structured/garage parking shall be
          located to the side or rear of the building to preserve street facing facades for
          transparency and pedestrian activity Structured parking that faces a street shall be
          wrapped with commercial or office uses Surface parking lots are not ailowed if visible
          from the ad jacent street. Guest parking shall not require a fee.




           The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2023-10, passed June 20, 2023.
