                                 ORDINANCE NO. 2025-0-14

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING VARIOUS USE TABLES IN TITLE 17 OF THE
MIDVALE CITY MUNICIPAL CODE CORRECTING CLERICAL ERRORS
RELATED TO BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated Sections l0-8-84 and l0-9a-501 through
l0-9a-503, Midvale City ("the City") has authority to make and amend any regulation of or
within zoning districts or any other provision of the land use ordinance to promote the prosperity,
improve the morals, peace and good order. comfort, convenience, and aesthetics of the
municipality; and

        WHEREAS, on January 2,2002. the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance, Title l7 of the
Midvale City Municipal Code (the "Code"), became effective and is subject to amendments from
time to time pursuant to Section I 7-3- I the Code; and

         WHEREAS, pursuant to Section l6-04-010 of the Code, the City desires to promote the
protection of public health, life and safetyi protect the character and social and economic
stability of all parts of the city; protect and preserve the value of land throughout the
municipality; guide public and private policy and action; establish responsible standards; prevent
pollution and degradation of air. streams, and ponds; preserve the natural beauty and topography;
and provide for open spaces through the most effect design and layout of the land;

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 17-l-l of the Code, the City desires to promote
coordinated development, redevelopment. effective use of land. and site planning; protect and
promote public safety, health, and general welfare by providing adequate light and air, water and
sewage control, police. fire and wetlands protection; and secure economy in governmental
expenditures; and

       WHEREAS, the City desires to amend various use tables in Title l7 of the Midvale City
Municipal Code correcting clerical errors related to business license requirements; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on August 13,2025,to
review the request for amendments and, after considering all the information received, made a
recommendation to approve the amendment request to the City Council; and

      WHEREAS, the City Councilof Midvale City. Utah held a public hearing on September
2,2025; and

       WHEREAS, after taking into consideration citizen testimony, planning analysis, and the
Planning Commission's recommendation as part of its deliberations, the City Council finds it is
appropriate and within the best interest of the City to make changes to the Code.

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah
as follows:
       Section l. The following sections of the Midvale City Municipal Code are hereby
       amended as included in the following attachments to this document:

               Attachment A: Amending various use tables in Title l7 olthe Midvale City
               Municipal Code correcting clerical errors related to business license requirements

       Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect upon the date offirst publication.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 2nd day ol september, 2025.
                              Y Sr4
                        a
                                            C     Dustin Gettel. Mavor
                   o
                   z
                    *        Jt LY t.I9o9
                                            *
ATTEST:                                           Voting by City Council                  "Nay"
                                RATE              Bonnie Billings            /
                                                                           --7
                                                  Paul Glover
                                                  Heidi Robinson
Charlie Cressall, CMC
Deputy City Recorder
                                                  Bryant Brown
                                                  Denece Mikolash
                                                                           --7
Date of first publication:       q          LOL
