                                 ORDINANCE NO. 2025-0-10

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 17-3-1 OF THE MIDVALE CITY
MUNICIPAL CODE CLARIFYING THE APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR
ZONING MAP AND ZONING CODE TEXT AMENDMENTS AND ADJUSTING
ZONING MAP AMENDMENT CRITERIA UNDER SECTION 17-3-l(E).

        WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated Sections I 0-8-84 and l 0-9a-50 l through
l 0-9a-503 , Midvale City ("the City") has authority to make and amend any regulation of or
within zoning districts or any other provision of the land use ordinance to promote the prosperity,
improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, convenience, and aesthetics of the
municipality ; and

        WHEREAS, on January 2, 2002, the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance, Title 17 of the
Midvale City Municipal Code (the "Code"), became effective and is subject to amendments from
time to time pursuant to Section 17-3-1 of the Code; and

         WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 16-04-010 of the Code, the City desires to promote the
protection of public health, life and safety; protect the character and social and economic
stability of all parts of the city ; protect and preserve the value of land throughout the
municipality ; guide public and private policy and action ; establish responsible standards; prevent
pollution and degradation of air, streams, and ponds; preserve the natural beauty and topography;
and provide for open spaces through the most effect design and layout of the land;

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 17-1-1 of the Code, the City desires to promote
coordinated development, redevelopment, effective use of land , and site planning; protect and
promote public safety, health, and general welfare by providing adequate light and air, water and
sewage control, police, fire and wetlands protection; and secure economy in governmental
expenditures; and

       WHEREAS, the City desires to amend Section 17-3-1 of the Midvale City Municipal
Code clarifying the application requirements for Zoning Map and Zoning Code Text
Amendments and adjusting Zoning Map Amendment Criteria under Section 17-3-1 (E) ; and

        WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on May 14, 2025 , to review
the request for amendments and, after considering all the information received, made a
recommendation to approve the amendment request to the City Council; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on June 3,
2025 ; and

       WHEREAS, after taking into consideration citizen testimony, planning analysis, and the
Planning Commission's recommendation as part of its deliberations, the City Council finds it is
appropriate and within the best interest of the City to make changes to the Code.
         NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah
as follows:

         Section I. The following sections of the Midvale City Municipal Code are hereby
         amended as included in the following attachments to this document:

              •    Attachment A: Amending Section 17-3-1 of the Midvale City Municipal Code
                   clarifying the application requirements for Zoning Map and Zoning Code Text
                   Amendments and adjusting Zoning Map Amendment Criteria under Section 17-3-
                   l(E).

         Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect upon the date of first publication.

         PASSED AND APPROVED this 3 rd day of June, 2025.


                                                             Q~
                                                          Dustin Gettel , Mayor


ATTEST:                                                   Voting by City Council   " Aye"   "Nay"
                                                          Bonnie Billings            v
                                                          Paul Glover                V
                                                          Heidi Robinson             ~/
                                                          Bryant Brown               V
                                                          Denece Mikolash            V
                               t
Date of first publication: ",,J\Lru2_      c:..2rki5-
                           ---'=-''----'-"--
                                             'J
                                             -=,..
                                               / - - ~-
Attachment A:
Midvale Mun ici pal Code Section 17-3-1, Amendments to the zoni ng code or map                  Page 1 of 3



17-3-1                Amendments to the zoning map«>de or mapcode.

Amendments to the zonini: map and th is t itle shall be made in the fo ll owing manner:

A. Application. An app licant must fi le a written request for amendment with the community
and economic development department. The city COldncil, planning commission, or commldnity
and economic development department may initiate an amendment as provided below. An
-      applica nt sha ll pay the fi ling fee prescribed by reso lution and shall file an application,
wh ich shall include, without lim itation:

    1. /1. list of the names and addresses {in label form) of all O"mers of all property for \"hich
    the amendment is reqldested and for all property •«ithin three hldndred feet of the
    boldndaries of the area for which the amendment is reqldested;

         _1._:J,.,-Zoning Mao Amendment Application: The legal description of all property inclldded; ◄       [ Formatted: Indent: Left: 0.54"
              ai:14

                  a    Property owner's affidavit or ai:ent's authorization·

                  b    The lei:al description and aerial map of all subject property included in a            [ Formatted: Indent: Left: 1.04"
                       zoning map amendment request:

                  c. A written statement addressini: the criteria required for approval pursuant
                       to subsection E of this section: and

                  d. Any other document relatini: to a zonini: map amendment as required by
                       the city's current. published zonini: map amendment application.

         2.   Zoning Code Text Amendment Application~                                                          Formatted: Font: Not Italic
                                                                                                               Formatted
                  a. A written document identifyini: the proposed chani:es to the zoning code
                       ~


                  b. A written statement addressini: the criteria required for approval pursuant
                       to subsection F of this section· and

                  a.cc Any other document relatini: to a zonini: code text amendment as required ◄            [ Formatted: Indent: Left: 1.04"
                        by the city's current. published zonini: code text amendment application .




         The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2025-02, passed February 4, 2025.
Midvale Municipal Code Section 17-3-1, Amendments to the zoning code or map                     Page 2 of 3


3. A >1,1riUen statement addressing the Eriteria reqllired for approval pllFSllant to SllbseEtion i
of th is seEtion.

The city council planning commission. or community and economic development department •                      [ Formatted: Indent: Left: O"

may initiate a zoning map or zoning code text amendment without filing an application or
paying a fi ling fee. but otherwise following the process provided in this section .

B. Hearings Before Planning Commission. The planning commission shall hold a public hearing
on all amendments to this title or to the zoning map. The community and economic
development director shall cause a notice. including a description of the property for which the
zon ing amendment is requested. a brief explanation of the proposed zoning. and the date.
place and t ime of the public hearing. to be prepared as provided in Section .1.Z:3.:9.. The purpose
of the notice is to reasonably inform surrounding property owners and jurisdictions of the
application. No minor omission or defect in the notice or mailing shall be deemed to impair the
va lidity of the proceedings to consider the application.

C. Action by Planning Commission. Following the public hearing. the planning commission sha ll
adopt a written recommendation to the city council. advising the council to approve.
disapprove. or modify the proposal. If the planning commission fai ls to take action within thirty
days of the close of the public hearing. the city council sha ll consider the matter forwarded
from the planning comm ission with a negative recommendation.

D. Hearing Before City Council. The city council must hold a public hearing on all proposed
amendments to this title or zoning map forwarded from the planning commission. Notice of
the public hearing shall be consistent with subsection a of th is section.

E. Zoning Map Amendment Criteria. The city's zoning is the result of a detailed and
comprehensive appraisal of the city's present and future land use allocation needs. A zoning
map amendment application may only be approved if the reviewing body determines. in
written findings, that the proposed amendment promotes the purposes outlined jn Utah Code
Annotated 10-9a-102 and demonstrates one or more of the following:

     1. Proposed rezoning promotes objectives of the genera l plan;

     2. Existing zoning was either the result of a clerical error or a mistake of fact, or that it
     failed to take into account the constraints on development created by the natural




         The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2025-02, passed February 4, 2025.
Midvale Municipal Code Section 17-3-1, Amendments to the zoning code or map                      Page 3 of3


     characteristics of the land, including but not limited to steep slopes, flood plain, unstable
     soils, and inadequate drainage;_Q[

     3. Land or its surrounding environs have changed or are changing to such a degree that it
     is in the public interest to encourage redevelopment of the area or to recognize the
     changed character of the areau-'---GF

     4. ProfJoseEl rewning womotes the fll,fffJOses OYtlineEl in Utah CoEle ,A,nnotateEl 1Q 9a 1Q2.

F. Zoning Code illl.A mendment Criteria. To establish and maintain a sound, stable, and
desirable city, a zoning code amendment application may only be approved if the reviewing
body determines, in written findings, that the proposed amendment demonstrates one or
more of the following:

     1. The proposed amendment promotes the objectives of the general plan and purposes of
     this title;

     2. The proposed amendment promotes the purposes outlined in Utah Code Annotated
     10-9a-102;

     3. The proposed amendment more clearly explains the intent of the original language or
     has been amended to make interpretation more stra ightforward; or

     4. Existing zoning code was the result of a clerical error or a mistake of fact.

G. Temporary or Emergency Zoning. The city council may enact an ordinance, without a public
hearing or planning commission recommendation, which establishes temporary zoning
regulation s for any part or all of the area within the muni cipality if:

     1. The city council makes a written finding of compelling, countervailing public interest; or

     2. The area is not zoned.

Temporary zoning regulations may prohibit or regulate the erection, construction,
reconstruction, or alteration of any building or structure or any subdivision approval. The city
council shall establish a period of limited effect for the ordinance, which period may not exceed
six months. (Ord. 2024-25 § 1 (Att. A); Ord. 12-1 1-2001 C § 2 (part))




          The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2025-02, passed February 4, 2025.
