                                ORDINANCE NO. 2025.0.I5

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 17-7-4.3 OF THE MIDVALE CITY
MUNICIPAL CODE RELATING TO MULTIFAMILY DEVELOPMETN STANDARDS.

        WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated Sections l0-8-84 and l0-9a-501 through
l0-9a-503, Midvale City ("the City") has authority to make and amend any regulation of or
within zoning districts or any other provision ofthe land use ordinance to promote the prosperity.
improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, convenience, and aesthetics ofthe
municipality; and

        WHEREAS, on January 2. 2002, the M idvale City Zoning Ordinance, Title I 7 of the
Midvale City Municipal Code (the "Code"). became eff-ective and is subject to amendments from
time to time pursuant to Section l7-3-l the Code; and

         WHEREAS, pursuant to Section l6-04-010 of the Code, the City desires to promote the
protection ofpublic health, life and safety; protect the character and social and economic
stability ofall parts ofthe cityi protect and preserve the value ofland throughout the
municipality: guide public and private policy and action; establish responsible standards: prevent
pollution and degradation ofair, strearns. and ponds; preserve the natural beauty and topography:
and provide lor open spaces through the rnost effect design and layout ofthe land;

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Section l7-l-l of the Code, the City desires to promote
coordinated development, redevelopment, etfective use of land, and site planning; protect and
promote public safety, health. and general welfare by providing adequate light and air, water and
sewage control, police. fire and wetlands protection: and secure economy in governmental
expenditures; and

       WHEREAS, the City desires to amend Section 17-7-4.3 of the Midvale City Municipal
Code relating to multifamily development standards; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on August 13, 2025, to
review the request for amendments and, after considering allthe information received, made a
recommendation to approve the amendment request to the City Council; and

      WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on September
2,2025; and

       WHEREAS, after taking into consideration citizen testimony, planning analysis, and the
Planning Commission"s recommendation as part of its deliberations, the City Council finds it is
appropriate and within the best interest ofthe City to make changes to the Code.

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah
as follows:
       Section l. The tbllowing sections of the Midvale City Municipal Code are hereby
       amended as included in the following attachments to this document:

           o Attachment A: Amending Section l7-7-4.3 of the Midvale City Municipal Code
               relating to multifami ly development standards.

       Section 2. This ordinance shall take effecl upon the date offirst publication.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 2nd day of September, 2025.
                              Y ST4 l€
                        I
                   .>                 :tAD    C
                                                   Dustin Gettel, Mayor
                   o
                   2         JtJLy l, 19@
                                              *
                    *
ATTEST:                                            Voting by City Council   "Aye"        "Nay"
                                RA{E               Bonnie Billings            t/
                                                   Paul Glover               ,./
   Ulafi"1tuN'^t)                                  Heidi Robinson             ,,/
Charlie Cressall. CMC                              Bryant Brown               /
Deputy City Recorder                               Denece Mikolash

Date of tirst publication:                  ?r ,
