                                 ORDINANCE NO. 2025-0-05

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 17-7-1.13 OF THE MIDVALE CITY
MUNICIPAL CODE CLAIFYING THE DUPLEX OVERLAY ZONE LANGUAGE,
SECTION 17-7-l.3(A)(l) CHANGING LANGUAGE TO BE CLEARER, AND SECTION
17-2-4 CLARIFYING THE "DUPLEX DWELLING" DEFINITION.

        WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated Sections 10-8-84 and 10-9a-501 through
I 0-9a-503 , Midvale City ("the City") has authority to make and amend any regulation of or
within zoning districts or any other provision of the land use ordinance to promote the prosperity,
improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, convenience, and aesthetics of the
municipality ; and

        WHEREAS, on January 2, 2002, the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance, Title 17 of the
Midvale City Municipal Code (the "Code" ), became effective and is subject to amendments from
time to time pursuant to Section 17-3-1 the Code; and

         WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 16-04-0 IO of the Code, the City desires to promote the
protection of public health, life and safety ; protect the character and social and economic
stability of all parts of the city ; protect and preserve the value of land throughout the
municipality; guide public and private policy and action ; establish responsible standards; prevent
pollution and degradation of air, streams, and ponds; preserve the natural beauty and topography;
and provide for open spaces through the most effect design and layout of the land;

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 17-1-1 of the Code, the City desires to promote
coordinated development, redevelopment, effective use of land, and site planning; protect and
promote public safety, health, and general welfare by providing adequate light and air, water and
sewage control , police, fire and wetlands protection; and secure economy in governmental
expenditures; and

        WHEREAS, the City desires to amend Section 17-7-1.13 of the Midvale City Municipal
Code clarifying the duplex overlay zone language, Section 17-7- l .3(A)(I) changing language to
be clearer, and Section 17-2-4 clarifying the " Duplex dwelling" definition ; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on March 26, 2025, to
review the request for amendments and, after considering all the information received, made a
recommendation to approve the amendment request to the City Council ; and

      WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on April 15,
2025;and

       WHEREAS, after taking into consideration citizen testimony, planning analysis, and the
Planning Commission's recommendation as part of its deliberations, the City Council finds it is
appropriate and within the best interest of the City to make changes to the Code.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah
as follows:

        Section 1. The following sections of the Midvale City Municipal Code are hereby
        amended as included in the following attachments to this document:

              •   Attachment A: Amending Section 17-7-1.13 of the Midvale City Municipal Code
                  clarifying the duplex overlay zone language, Section I 7-7-1.3(A)(l) changing
                  language to be clearer, and Section 17-2-4 clarifying the " Duplex dwelling"
                  definition.

        Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect upon the date of first publication.

        PASSED AND APPROVED this 15 th day of April , 2025.


                                                 <J-4~o
                                              Dustin Gettel , Mayor


                                              Voting by City Council         " Aye"       "Nay"
                                              Bonnie Billings                   V
                                              Paul Glover                       ✓
                                              Heidi Robinson                    v-
                                                                             ~
Ro· Andreason, MMC                            Bryant Brown
City Recorder                                 Denece Mikolash

Date of first publication: 4 ,. . ./ U -~
Attachment A:
Midvale Municipal Code Section 17-7-1                                                               Page 1 of 2




17-7-1.3          Lot standards.

The following standards apply to all new subdivisions of land in the zone:

A. Lot Area. The minimum lot area is seven thousand square feet, subject to the following
exception:

    1. For the purpose of promoting owner-occupied residences, a lot complying with the
    requirements of the zone may be subdivided to allow for individual ownership of a-
    duplexpre existing single family attached structure .

B. Lot Width. The minimum lot width is fifty-five feet, measured at the front setback line.

C. Lot Frontage. The minimum lot frontage is fifty-five feet unless the lot is on a cul -de-sac, in
which case the minimum lot frontage is thirty-five feet.

D. Lot Depth. The minimum lot depth is ninety feet, unless the lot width is at least eighty-two
feet, then the minimum lot depth shall be eighty feet. Corner lots must meet the minimum lot
depth from both street frontages. The minimum corner lot depth requirement from one street
frontage may be reduced provided the following items are satisfied:

    1. Any new corner lot created by this provision must include a pre-existing residential
    structure. The pre-existing structure may or may not comply with the front yard setback
    requirements in Section 17-7-1.4(A)(1 ).

    2. The reduced lot depth dimension shall not be less than fifty-five feet, and shall be such
    that the pre-existing structure shall have at least the minimum side yard setback required
    in Section 17-7-1.4{A)(2). Any existing accessory structure shall comply with the required
    setback for accessory structures.

    3. The minimum lot area shall be seven thousand square feet. The minimum lot depth
    from the other street frontage shall be ninety feet. (Ord . 2017-02 § 1 (Att. A (part)); Ord.
    5/20/20030-5 § 1 (part); Ord . 11 -13-2001 § 2 {part))



17-7-1.13         Duplex (two-unitfamily) overlay (DO) zone.

The duplex overlay zone is intended to provide additional standards for the development of
duplexes within the zone district. The duplex overlay zone informs the owners of the standards


        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Section 17-7-1                                                                     Page2of2


that will be applied in approving or denying proposed developments. The duplex overlay zone
supplements, but does not supersede, other provisions in this title. Owners and designers shall
also refer to this code for other specific requirements. _ The goal of the ordinances of the city is
the development of a consistently high quality environment, and to assure and enhance the
investments of those located in the zoning district.


A. Boundaries. The requirements of the duplex overlay zone shall apply to all properties within
the duplex overlay zone boundaries depicted on the zoning map.

B. Procedures. Applications for duplexes shall be processed as an allowed use, under the
criteria listed in Section .1.Z.n.

.6_(;. Lot Size Exclusion. For the purpose of promoting owner-occupied residences, a lot
complying with the requirements of the underlying zone and falling within the duplex overlay
zone may be subdivided to allow for individual ownership of each side of a duplex. single family
attached structure. In such instance, the duplex structure shall be exempt from the interior side
yard setback. (Ord. 2022-18 § 1 (Att. A); Ord . 2022-03A § 1 (Att. A); Ord . 2021-19 § 1 (Att. A); Ord . 11-13-2001
§ 2 (part). Formerly 17-7-1.14)




         The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31 , passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Section 17-2-4, "D" definitions                                           Page 1 of 1




17-2-4            "D" definitions.


"Duplex dwelling" or "duplex" means a building containing two dwelling units that is mvned by
one owner and has separate exterior entrances for each dwelling unit. A duplex dwelling does
not require an owner to live in one of the dwelling units. A duplex dwelling does not include a
single family dwelling with an internal accessory dwelling unit.




         The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2025-02, passed February 4, 2025 .
