                                 ORDINANCE NO. 2025-0-07

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 17-4-1 OF THE MIDVALE CITY
MUNICIPAL CODE TO ALLOW THE CITY COUNCIL TO DETERMINE A
PLANNING COMMISSION STIPEND.

        WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated Sections l 0-8-84 and I 0-9a-50 I through
I 0-9a-503 , Midvale City ("the City") has authority to make and amend any regulation of or
within zoning districts or any other provision of the land use ordinance to promote the prosperity,
improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, convenience, and aesthetics of the
municipality; and

        WHEREAS, on January 2, 2002, the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance, Title 17 of the
Midvale City Municipal Code (the "Code"), became effective and is subject to amendments from
time to time pursuant to Section 17-3-1 the Code; and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Section I 7-1-1 of the Code, the City desires to promote
coordinated development, redevelopment, effective use of land, and site planning; protect and
promote public safety, health, and general welfare by providing adequate light and air, water and
sewage control , police, fire and wetlands protection; and sec ure economy in governmental
expenditures; and

        WHEREAS, the City desires to amend Section l 7-4-1 of the Code entitled Establishment
of the Commission to allow the City Council to determine a Planning Commission stipend; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on March 26, 2025, to
review the requested amendments and, after considering all the information received, made a
recommendation to approve the amendment request to the City Council; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on April 15,
2025 ;and

       WHEREAS, after taking into consideration citizen testimony, planning analysis, and the
Planning Commission ' s recommendation as part of its deliberations, the City Council finds it is
appropriate and within the best interest of the City to make changes to the Code.

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah
as follows:
       Section 1. The following section of the Midvale City Municipal Code is hereby
       amended as included in the attachment to thi s document:

           •    Attachment A: Amending Section 17-4- 1.

        Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect upon the date of first publication.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 15 th day of April , 2025 .


                                                         -~
                                                       ettel, Mayor


ATTEST:                                       Voting by City Council         "Aye"        "Nay"


1t·f.Jn~ ~                                                                      ✓
                                              Bonnie Billings
                                              Paul Glover                       ✓
                                              Heidi Robinson                    ,._,/'
~Andreason, MMC
                                                                             ~
                                              Bryant Brown
City Recorder                                 Denece Mikolash

Date of first publication:   4- )u-X
   Attachment A:




(Page left blank intentionally)
Midvale Municipal Code Section 17-4-1, Establishment of the commission                           Page 1 of 1




17-4-1            Establishment of the commission.

There is created a planning commission to be composed of five members and two alternates,
appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the city council from among qualified
electors of the city in a manner providing balanced geographic, professional, neighborhood and
community interest representation. Members of the planning commission to include alternates
may, within budgetary constraints, be paid a stipend of twenty dollars for each meeting
attended as determined by the city council, payment to be made quarterly. (Ord. 12-11-2001 c § 2
(part))




          The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2025-02, passed February 4, 2025.
