ORDINANCE NO. 2025-0-19
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE MIDVALE CITY WATER USE AND
PRESERVATION ELEMENT OF THE GENERAL PLAN
WHEREAS, in accordance with Utah Code 10-9a-403 Midvale City is required to include a Water
Use and Preservation Element in its General Plan; and
WHEREAS, the City desires to continue to create water policy that is beneficial to its citizens
while balancing sustainability, the needs of the Great Salt Lake Watershed, and population
growth; and
WHEREAS, the City has consulted with the Division of Water Resources, the Division of
Drinking Water, the Department of Agriculture, the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District,
the Jordan River Commigsion and others to receive guidance and different perspectives on how
to preserve the Great f Lake Watershed and be a part of a sustainable approach to water use;
and a ns.
" * . é
WHEREAS, the Midvale-City. Water Use-and Preservation Element of the General Plan used
Utah Code 10-9a-403 as its-basis, analyzed the Midvale Water Conservation Plan, the Drinking
Water System Master Plan, and the role of Midvale’s land development system with regard to
water use and preservation; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on September 10, 2025, to review
the plan, receive public comment and, after considering all the information received, made a
recommendation to approve the Water Use and Preservation Element of the General Plan; and
WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on October 7, 2025;
and
WHEREAS, after taking into consideration citizen testimony, planning analysis, and the Planning
Commission’s recommendation as part of its deliberations, the City Council finds it is within the
best interest of the City to amend the General Plan by adding a Water Use and Preservation
Element.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah as
follows:
Section |: The General Plan is hereby amended to include a Water Use and Preservation
Element.
Section 2: This ordinance shall take effect upon the date of first publication.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 7" day of October 2025.
Dustin Gettel, Mayor
ATTEST:
“AN STAD €
P 6, Oe
x: ncORPORATFD  S,
Roti L. Andreason, MMC = _——ero-—- |
City Recorder $c % TL 1.19 *
@) ay
ePoRATES
Voting by the Council: “Aye” “Nay”
Bonnie Billings Aer On
Paul Glover “=
Heidi Robinson a
Bryant Brown
Denece Mikolash z
Date of first publication: lO-G- 9035

Midvale Cit
Water Use & Preservation
ou Be at
“”
oe te. 5 -
« sacs a ; = “<5 ae

=y ae = = sks oe

eat sy SS eae 1s a Ra SE > pee
Approved 10/2025

Introduction

Life in the western part of the United States, including Utah, has always revolved around
the availability and scarcity of water resources because water is one of the most basic
necessities of life.

Early native American inhabitants of Utah, such as the Ute, Goshute, Paiute, and Navajo
cultivated a harmonious relationship with this life sustaining resource. They lived nomadic
or semi-nomadic lifestyles that tracked the availability of water and often moved in
seasonal cycles with careful regard to their stewardship of the given resources. Their views
about and use of water and other natural resources had deep spiritual roots and was
sustainable.

The subsequent arrival of predominantly European-American settlers in 1847 followed by
continued rapid immigration changed sustainable water practices in an environment of a
stable population count to rapid population growth with its attendant demand for water in
combination with non-native attitudes and techniques toward the use and harvesting of
water.

With this pattern continuing until today the State of Utah finds itself in a situation where the
population count is at an all-time high of approximately 3.5 million with water consumption
patterns that have not changed enough to ensure that future population growth can be
serviced without further damaging strained ecosystems like the Great Salt Lake.

The following sections will introduce the statutory background municipal water planning in
Utah is based on, regional water conservation goals, the Midvale Water Conservation Plan,
the Midvale Drinking Water System Master Plan, and the different means and ways of
conserving water.

Water Planning in Utah

During the 2022 legislative session, the Utah Senate approved SB 110 (see below), which
requires cities like Midvale to incorporate a Water Use and Preservation Element into their
general plan. During the following legislative session SB 76 added a requirement to consult
with the Division of Water Resources regarding regional conservation goals and how a city’s
plan may affect the Great Salt Lake.

The bill requires cities to take defined steps to create this new general plan element as
spelled out in the bill text below. This general plan element will follow the state law’s
required analysis step by step to create recommendations and policy that comply with
1]|Page Midvale Water Use and Preservation Element of the
General Plan

regional water conservation goals and at the same time address Midvale City’s residents’
needs.
SB 110, Utah Code 10-9a-403 (2)(f)
(f) In drafting the water use and preservation element, the planning commission:
(i) shall consider:
(A) applicable regional water conservation goals recommended by the
Division of Water Resources; and
(B) if Section 73-10-32 requires the municipality to adopt a water
conservation plan pursuant to Section 73-10-32, the municipality's
water conservation plan;
(ii)shall include a recommendation for:
(A) water conservation policies to be determined by the municipality; and
(B) landscaping options within a public street for current and future
development that do not require the use of lawn or turf in a parkstrip;
(iii) shall review the municipality's land use ordinances and include a
recommendation for changes to an ordinance that promotes the
inefficient use of water;
(iv) shall consider principles of sustainable landscaping, including the:
(A) reduction or limitation of the use of lawn or turf;
(B) promotion of site-specific landscape design that decreases
stormwater runoff or runoff of water used for irrigation;
(C) preservation and use of healthy trees that have a reasonable water
requirement or are resistant to dry soil conditions;
(D) elimination or regulation of ponds, pools, and other features that
promote unnecessary water evaporation;
(E) reduction of yard waste; and
(F) use of an irrigation system, including drip irrigation, best adapted to
provide the optimal amount of water to the plants being irrigated;
2|Page Midvale Water Use and Preservation Element of the
General Plan

(v)shall consult with the public water system or systems serving the
municipality with drinking water regarding how implementation of the
land use element and water use and preservation element may affect:

(A) water supply planning, including drinking water source and storage
capacity consistent with Section 19-4-114; and

(B) water distribution planning, including master plans, infrastructure
asset management programs and plans, infrastructure replacement
plans, and impact fee facilities plans;

(vi) shall consult with the Division of Water Resources for information and
technical resources regarding regional water conservation goals,
including how implementation of the land use element and the water use
and preservation element may affect the Great Salt Lake;

(vii) may include recommendations for additional water demand
reduction strategies, including:

(A) creating a water budget associated with a particular type of
development;

(B) adopting new or modified lot size, configuration, and landscaping
standards that will reduce water demand for new single family
development;

(C) providing one or more water reduction incentives for existing
development such as modification of existing landscapes and
irrigation systems and installation of water fixtures or systems that
minimize water demand;

(D) discouraging incentives for economic development activities that do
not adequately account for water use or do not include strategies for
reducing water demand; and

(E) adopting water concurrency standards requiring that adequate water
supplies and facilities are or will be in place for new development; and

(viii) for a town, may include, and for another municipality, shall include, a
recommendation for low water use landscaping standards for a new:

(A) commercial, industrial, or institutional development;

(B) common interest community, as defined in Section 57-25-102; or

3|Page Midvale Water Use and Preservation Element of the
General Plan

(C) multifamily housing project.

Midvale’s Water Plans and Water Budget
Midvale’s water policy is governed by two existing plans:

1. Midvale Water Conservation Plan

2. Midvale Drinking Water System Master Plan.
The Midvale Water Conservation Plan is based on the Utah Code 73-10-32 which was
approved in 1998 and required a Water Conservation Plan from 1999 onward.
The latest version of the Midvale Water Conservation Plan is attached and serves as the
basis from which to evaluate how Midvale can institutionalize water saving processes from
within the General Plan context.
The Water Conservation Plan details the following:

1. Midvale’s water use over time

2. Demand and Supply balance now and in the future

3. Delivery system improvements

4. Water rate structure

5. Existing conservation measures

6. Proposed conservation measures
The Water Conservation Plan builds on the Drinking Water System Master Plan and
references its core analysis regarding the water demand and supply balance.
The Drinking Water System Master Plan states that Equivalent Residential Connections
(ERCs) will increase from a13,940 in 2019 to 23,580 in 2060. An ERC represents the average
water demand of an average residential water connection.
Under 2019 conditions Table 3-11 below (Drinking Water System Master Plan p.3-9) shows
that Midvale has sufficient water to fulfill demand with a remaining source capacity of 232
acre feet.
4|Page Midvale Water Use and Preservation Element of the
General Plan

Table 3-11: Existing Average Yearly Demand Requirements by Pressure Zone
7 Remainin
:
ights
1,210 1,210 105
ay
[Tosi | toa | 7a0s | aos2 | oes | sosr | 22
'The proportion of the JVWCD contract amount allotted to each zone is arbitrary. The contract does not
limit volumes by pressure zone.
Conditions in the year 2060, however, show that Midvale’s current supply will not be
sufficient to service predicted demand (see Table 3-16 below, Drinking Water System
Master Plan p.3-12).
Table 3-16: 2060 Average Yearly Demand Requirements by Pressure Zone
Water Supply Capacity in Zone (acre-feet)
Fone ERCs feonetnct Available
e : emaining
City Water! jwwep' | Total
Rights
11,970 11,345 4,952 1,875 6,827 -4,518
1,210 1,215 -650
South Union 1,340 1,100
'The proportion of the JYWCD contract amount allotted to each zone is arbitrary. The contract does not
limit volumes by pressure zone.
Midvale will require an additional 5,168 acre-feet of water from JVWCD to meet future
demand (Drinking Water System Master Plan p.3-13). In a consultation with JVWCD (see
Appendix F) Midvale was assured that future water supply for Midvale and other
municipalities in the JVWCD service area is secure, however, the cost may increase
substantially, especially if a member city demands water in excess of its contractual
allotment.
For this reason, Midvale and JVWCD are actively involved in finding, incentivizing, and
sustaining ways to decrease water consumption, which is addressed below.
5|Page Midvale Water Use and Preservation Element of the
General Plan

Statewide and Regional Water Conservation Goals

In addition to the Midvale Water Conservation Plan, the State of Utah’s Regional Water

Conservation Goals (Appendix A) inform what this general plan element should focus on.

The Utah Department of Natural Resources describes the Regional Water Conservation

Goals as follows (Department of Natural Resources, 7/7/2025. Regional Water

Conservation Goals):
The state’s Regional Water Conservation Goals, established in 2019, are for Utah’s
nine municipal and industrial (M&l) areas. M&l includes residential, commercial,
institutional (for example, schools and parks) and industrial water use, but excludes
agriculture, mining, and power generation as these are classified individually.
As recommended by the Legislative Audit, 201 llow-up Audit, Third-Part
Review, and 2017 Recommended State Water Strategy, regional water conservation
goals were developed to enhance water conservation efforts around the state.
Region-specific goals support the unique characteristics and needs of Utah’s
diverse climates and ecosystems.
Thanks to the efforts of many Utahns and their water providers, per capita water use
has declined by at least 18%. We’ve made significant progress, but more must be
done to accomplish these goals including policy and ordinance changes on state,
local and municipal levels. Even with all the progress that has been made, balanced
efforts both in water development and water conservation are still necessary to
meet Utah’s long-term water needs. This is the first time conservation goals have
been established on a regional level, and they build on the previously established
statewide goal of reducing per-capita use by 25% by 2025, (using the 2000 M&l
water use report as a starting value).

Midvale City already reached the statewide goal of reducing per capita water consumption

by 25% by 2025 (Water Conservation Plan, p.12).

The state goal for the Salt Lake/Tooele municipal and industrial area (see Figure 1) isa

consumption of 187 GPCD (Gallon Per Capita Per Day) by the year 2030.

Today, Midvale is already 39 GPCD below the 2030 goal of 187 GPCD with a consumption of

148 GPCD and plans to continue to reduce per capita use by 11% from 2015 to 2030 fora

consumption of 131.72 GPCD. At that point in time, Midvale will consume 55.28 GPCD

(30%) less than the regional goal.

6|Page Midvale Water Use and Preservation Element of the

General Plan

Figure 1
DNR ° e
i] M&l Water Conservation Regions
2015 Use Vs 2030 Goals
2015 Use: 250
Pornatt Ae PUM 2030 Goal: 200
Pian ar: 3) Percent Reduction: 20%
Se,
A regional approach allows the goals to be tailored for nine different regions
and takes into account climate, elevation, and each region's characteristics.
Note: Use is measured in gallons per capita per day.
7|Page Midvale Water Use and Preservation Element of the
General Plan

Midvale’s Water Conservation Policies

A further reduction in Midvale City’s water consumption will require focused policies that
institutionalize processes to save water. Midvale’s current water conservation policies
include the following:

Public Education

Midvale City actively promotes water conservation measures to its residents through
multiple channels, ensuring a comprehensive approach to sustainability. The city's website
serves as a central hub, offering detailed guidelines, tips, and resources on efficient water
usage and the importance of conservation.

Annually, the city's water quality report not only provides essential information about the
safety and quality of the water supply but also includes practical advice on how residents
can reduce their water consumption. Additionally, the city newsletter features regular
articles and updates on water-saving initiatives and upcoming conservation workshops.
Require Water Saving Fixtures

Midvale City has adopted the International Plumbing Code, mandating the use of water-
saving plumbing fixtures in all new developments to enhance sustainability and resource
efficiency. During the building permit review process, the city meticulously examines
building plans to ensure they incorporate these water-efficient fixtures. Compliance with
the code is further enforced through rigorous building inspections, ensuring that all new
constructions adhere to these water conservation standards. This proactive approach not
only promotes responsible water usage but also supports Midvale City's broader
environmental goals.

Replace Old Water Service Laterals

Midvale City has adopted a material standard aimed at improving the durability and
efficiency of its water infrastructure by requiring that all leaking galvanized water laterals be
replaced with copper or poly piping. This measure is part of the city's commitment to
maintaining a reliable and sustainable water supply system. When a pipeline replacement
project is conducted, any existing galvanized laterals are systematically replaced to
prevent future leaks and ensure long-term resilience. By upgrading to copper or poly piping,
Midvale City not only enhances the overall quality of its water distribution network but also
reduces maintenance costs and water loss.
8|Page Midvale Water Use and Preservation Element of the
General Plan

Replacement Program for Old Pipelines

Midvale City is committed to the ongoing improvement of its water infrastructure by aiming
to replace 1,000 feet of pipeline annually. This systematic approach is aligned with the
city's master plan, ensuring that pipeline replacement projects are strategically conducted
in conjunction with street renovations, as leaks are detected, and as the annual budget
permits. By integrating pipeline replacements with broader infrastructure projects, Midvale
City maximizes efficiency and minimizes disruption to residents. This proactive
replacement strategy not only helps maintain a reliable water distribution system but also
supports its broader water conservation goals by reducing leaks and water loss, thereby
ensuring a more sustainable and efficient use of water resources for the community.
Replacement Program of Old Water Meters

Midvale City has implemented a comprehensive meter replacement program to enhance
the accuracy and efficiency of water usage monitoring. New, accurate radio-read meters
are installed at all connections, allowing for precise data collection. During monthly meter
scans, the city identifies meters with continuous flow, indicating potential leaks, and
promptly contacts the respective residents. Meters showing abnormally high usage are
also flagged, with residents being notified to address possible issues. Additionally, meters
registering zero flow are noted, and if found to be broken or inaccurate, they are promptly
replaced. This diligent monitoring and proactive replacement approach ensures accurate
billing and reduces water waste.

Restrict Water Use for Public Landscaped Areas

Midvale City enforces water use restrictions for public landscaped areas to promote
efficient water usage and conservation. Sprinkler systems are carefully adjusted based on
current weather conditions, ensuring that landscapes receive the appropriate amount of
water without waste. Watering is scheduled for the evening or early morning hours to
minimize water loss due to evaporation, maximizing the effectiveness of irrigation. This
strategic approach not only conserves water but also helps maintain the health of public
green spaces.

Require Separate Meters for Large Irrigated Areas

Midvale City mandates the installation of separate meters for large, irrigated areas in
commercial and industrial properties. This requirement ensures that water usage for
landscaping is distinctly monitored, promoting responsible water management practices.
By isolating irrigation water consumption, the city can more accurately track and manage
water usage, encouraging businesses to adopt efficient irrigation techniques. This policy
9|Page Midvale Water Use and Preservation Element of the
General Plan

aids in identifying potential leaks and inefficiencies ensuring that commercial and
industrial landscape areas are maintained without compromising valuable water
resources.

Evaluate Water Rate Structure

Midvale City conducts an annual evaluation of its water rate structure to promote water
conservation and ensure the sustainability of its water resources. By reviewing and
adjusting the rates each year, the city aims to incentivize efficient water usage among
residents and businesses. The rate structure is designed to reflect the true cost of water
provision and to encourage conservation by implementing tiered pricing, where higher
usage results in higher rates. The annual assessment allows the city to adapt to changing
water supply conditions, economic factors, and consumption patterns, reinforcing its
commitment to responsible water management and the long-term preservation of this vital
resource.

The following conservation goals have been identified by the city to help continue to reduce
water consumption. Some of these goals were previously implemented but are being
updated with additional information to align with future conservation goals.

Public Education: Updated Annually

Midvale City remains committed to promoting water conservation measures among its
residents through ongoing public education initiatives. In alignment with the newly adopted
Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District conservation measures, the city will update all
relevant information to ensure residents are well-informed and equipped to conserve water
effectively. This commitment extends to advertising conservation measures by providing
convenient access to water conservation websites through links on the city website. As
part of these efforts, the city will continue public education campaigns, encouraging
customers to limit outside watering to the hours of 6 pmto 10 am. This information will be
reviewed and updated annually.

Unmetered Connections and Water Use: Conducted Monthly

The city will undertake efforts to identify potential causes of unmetered or unaccounted
drinking water. The investigation and analysis is conducted monthly based on meter
reading data. Midvale City aims to pinpoint areas where water may be escaping the
metering system or being lost through leaks or other means. Additional Hydrant meters will
be purchased to help account for water used during fire hydrant flushing. By addressing
these issues proactively, the city can mitigate water loss, conserve resources, and ensure
10|Page Midvale Water Use and Preservation Element of the
General Plan

efficient distribution of safe drinking water to residents and businesses. This will be

reviewed and updated monthly.

Pipeline Repairs: Conducted Upon Discovery of Leak

Midvale City is committed to promptly replace leaking pipelines as they are discovered to

minimize water loss and ensure the efficient delivery of clean water to residents. The city

prioritizes replacement of leaking water pipes to minimize environmental impact and

conserve resources. This will be conducted upon the discovery of a leak and processes will

be reviewed and revised annually.

Landscaping Options for Public Streets

Utah Code 10-9a-403 (2)(f)(ii)(B) requires landscaping options within a public street for

current and future development that do not require the use of lawn or turf in a park strip.

Midvale City complies with this stipulation because its zoning ordinances already allow

park strips with xeriscape, for example in the Single-Family Residential Zone (SF-1) (Midvale

Municipal Code 17-7-1.6(A)).

The zoning code states that xeriscape is allowed to fulfill the landscape requirements (see

sentence in bold) while turf is just one of many options:
A. Landscaping Required. Yard and setback areas visible from street access,
including park-strips, that are not utilized as approved parking or access for
vehicles, trailers, etc., shall be landscaped. Landscaping shall include the
treatment of the ground surface with live materials such as, but not limited to, sod,
grass, ground cover, trees, shrubs, vines and other growing horticultural plant
material. In addition, a combination of xeriscape plantings and designs that may
include other decorative surfacing such as bark chips, crushed stone, mulch
materials, decorative concrete or pavers shall also meet landscaping
requirements. Structural features such as fountains, pools, statues, and benches
shall also be considered part of the landscaping, but such objects alone shall not
meet the requirements of landscaping.

In addition to the above, Midvale City adopted the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District

Water Efficiency Standards on May 7", 2024 (Attachment D) which supersede individual

zoning requirements (Midvale Municipal Code 17-6-2) and further reduce the use of lawn in

park strips by prohibiting it at slopes greater than 25% and when the narrowest point of the

park strip is less than 8 feet in width:

11]|Page Midvale Water Use and Preservation Element of the

General Plan

F. Lawn shall not be installed in Park Strips, Paths, or on slopes greater than 25%
or 4:1 grade, and be less than 8 feet wide at its narrowest point. To the extent
reasonably practicable, Lawn shall be free from obstructions (trees, signs, posts,
valve boxes, etc.).
Midvale City’s newly adopted road cross sections do not feature park strips that are greater
than 8 feet as a result turf is not allowed.
Principles of Sustainable Landscaping
Utah Code 10-9a-403 (2)(f)(iv) requires that municipalities consider the following principles
of sustainable landscaping:
(A) reduction or limitation of the use of lawn or turf;
Midvale City adopted the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District Water Efficiency
Standards which specifically address the reduction and limitation of lawn or turf as
shown in Attachment D.
(B) promotion of site-specific landscape design that decreases stormwater runoff or
runoff of water used for irrigation;
Midvale City has an MS4 permit that addresses stormwater retention.
(C) preservation and use of healthy trees that have a reasonable water requirement
or are resistant to dry soil conditions;
Midvale City created a Street Tree Selection Guide that promotes appropriate tree
selection for local conditions (See Attachment E).
(D) elimination or regulation of ponds, pools, and other features that promote
unnecessary water evaporation;
The regulation of ponds, pools, and other features that promote unnecessary water
evaporation is currently not included in Midvale’s ordinance system with regard to
evaporation reduction but may be addressed at a future point in time.
(E) reduction of yard waste; and
Midvale City provides a Fall Leaf Cleanup Program and a Bulky Waste Program and
educates residents about stormwater pollution prevention (see
https://www.midvale.utah.gov/government/departments/public_works/stormwater_
division/stormwater_education.php retrieved on 7/9/2025).
12|Page Midvale Water Use and Preservation Element of the
General Plan
