ORDINANCE NO. 2025-00-16
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING VARIOUS SECTIONS OF THE SSC, RC, AND CI
ZONES OF THE MIDVALE CITY MUNICIPAL CODE RELATING TO VEHICLE
RELATED USES, DELETE THE DEFINITION FOR “VEHICLE-RELATED USE”
FROM SECTION 17-2-22, AND ESTABLISH SECTION 17-6-5 REGULATING
VEHICLE RELATED USES

WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated Sections 10-8-84 and 10-9a-501 through
10-9a-503, Midvale City (“the City”) has authority to make and amend any regulation of or
within zoning districts or any other provision of the land use ordinance to promote the prosperity,
improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, convenience, and aesthetics of the
municipality; and

WHEREAS, on January 2, 2002, the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance, Title 17 of the
Midvale City Municipal Code (the “Code”), became effective and is-subject to amendments from
time to time pursuant to Section 17-3-1 the Code; and tf oe ,

i.e

WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 16-04-010 ofjthe Code, the City desires to promote the
protection of public health, life and safety; protect the character‘and social and economic
stability of all parts of the city; protect and preserve the, value of land throughout the
municipality; guide public and private policy and action}, establish responsible standards; prevent
pollution and degradation of air, streams, and ponds; preserve the natural’beauty and topography;
and provide for open spaces through the most effect design and layout of the land;

WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 17-1-1 of the Code, the City desires to promote
coordinated development, redevelopment, effective use of land, and site planning; protect and
promote public safety, health, and general welfare by providing adequate light and air, water and
sewage control, police, fire and wetlands protection; and secure economy in governmental
expenditures; and

WHEREAS, the City desires to amend various sections of the SSC, RC, and CI zones of
the Midvale City Municipal Code relating to vehicle related uses, delete the definition for
“vehicle-related use” from Section 17-2-22, and establish Section 17-6-5 regulating vehicle
related uses; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on September 24, 2025, to
review the request for amendments and, after considering all the information received, made a
recommendation to the City Council to approve the amendment; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on October 7,
2025; and

WHEREAS, after taking into consideration citizen testimony, planning analysis, and the
Planning Commission’s recommendation as part of its deliberations, the City Council finds it is
appropriate and within the best interest of the City to make changes to the Code.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah
as follows:
Section |. The following sections of the Midvale City Municipal Code are hereby
amended as included in the following attachments to this document:
e Attachment A: Amending various sections of the SSC, RC, and CI zones of the
Midvale City Municipal Code relating to vehicle related uses, delete the definition
for “vehicle-related use” from Section 17-2-22, and establish Section 17-6-5
regulating vehicle related uses.
Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect upon the date of first publication.
PASSED AND APPROVED this 7" day of October, 2025.
BglVdOgy
ae oo z\ Dustin Gettel, Mayor
* rv nO" 4 >
ATTEST: Yo % — oy Voting by City Council “Aye” “Nay”
“vis h* Bonnie Billings dbsonT
. Paul Glover L—
, Heidi Robinson LL
Ravi Andreas6n, MMC Bryant Brown —
City Recorder Denece Mikolash —
Date of first publication: | ( ) as | gees

Attachment A:

Midvale Municipal Code Section 17-2-22, “V" definitions Page 1of 2
17-2-22 “Vv” definitions.
“Vehicle” means a self-propelled device used for transporting persons or things, to include, but
not limited to, automobiles, watercraft, motorcycles, snowmobiles, and recreation vehicles.
Does not include heavy machinery.
“Vehicle assembly” means a business where finished vehicle-related parts are put together to
develop a final product.
‘Vehicle filling station” means a business engaged in the retail dispensing or sales of vehicular
fuels; and including as an accessory use the sale and installation of lubricants, tires, batteries,
and similar vehicle accessories.
‘Vehicle rental” means a business primarily engaged in the rental of vehicles.
“Vehicle repair” means a business engaged in the servicing of passenger vehicles, light and
medium trucks and other consumer motor vehicles such as motorcycles, boats and recreational
vehicles. “Vehicle repair’ includes businesses where minor auto repair services performed may
include lubrication and service of vehicles, tune-ups, transmission or muffler repair, alignment
services, auto upholstery shops, auto detailing, tire sales, repair and/or mounting, and other
similar repairs. “Vehicle repair” also includes major auto repair such as the removal of engines,
rebuilding of engines, repair of the internal components, repair or removal of differentials or
axles, and body work. “Vehicle repair’ may also include uses that are often accessory to
businesses engaged in the repair of vehicles such as offices, part sales, storage of merchandise,
and vehicle storage when such vehicle storage is fully and adequately screened. “Vehicle repair”
does not include repair and service of industrial vehicles and equipment or other heavy
vehicles in excess of twelve thousand GVW, “vehicle assembly,” “manufacturing use,” auto
dismantling or wrecking, salvage, “junkyards,” or similar uses. For the purposes of each zoning
district, any other uses specifically listed within the particular zoning district shall not be
construed as falling within this generic definition.

The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2025-12, passed June 17, 2025.

Midvale Municipal Code Section 17-2-22, “V" definitions Page 2 of 2
‘Vehicle sales (minor)" means a business engaged in only the sale of operable vehicles and that
displays no more than three vehicles outside and ten vehicles inside.
‘Vehicle sales and service (major)” means a business primarily engaged in the sale of operable
vehicles with more than three vehicles displayed outside and more than ten vehicles inside.
Vehicle parts and accessories may be sold, and minor repair and installation of parts and
accessories may be performed on site as part of this use.
‘Vehicle sign” means a sign or advertising device attached to or located on a vehicle or trailer
parked on a public right-of-way, public property or parking area with access by the general
public so as to be visible from a public right-of-way for the basic purpose of directing people to
a business or activity.
“Vending cart” means a small wheeled, nonmotorized device from which to sell food and/or
merchandise for immediate consumption or use.
‘Vertical foot candle (VFC)” means a unit of illumination produced on a vertical surface, all
points of which are one foot from a uniform point source of one candle.
‘Vertical mixed-use” means commercial and residential uses which are within the same building
structure.

The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2025-12, passed June 17, 2025.

Midvale Municipal Code Section 17-6-5, Vehicle Related Uses Page 1 of 1

17-6-5 Vehicle related uses.

Vehicle related uses include rental, sales (major), sales (minor), filling stations, and repair.

Vehicle related uses shall meet the following requirements:

A. Parking Requirement. Development must provide off-street parking with adequate provisions
for independent ingress and egress by automobiles and other motorized vehicles as
follows. If a project incorporates two uses, the use requiring the higher number of parking
spaces shall govern. Whenever the calculation results in a fractional number, the number of
spaces required must be rounded up to the next whole number.

| ~*~ | Parking Requirement (Number of Spaces)

Rental, Sales (major) | 1 space per vehicle for sale or rent plus 1 space per 400 square feet of

net leasable floor area

Sales (minor) 3 spaces plus 2 per employee per shift and a minimum of 2 for

customers

Filling Stations 5 per 1,000 square feet of net leasable floor area

1 space per employee per shift plus 4 per service bay
B. Vehicle Sales (Minor) Standards
a. Amaximum of 3 vehicles may be displayed outside. All vehicles must be parked
within an improved parking area in designated parking stalls. Up to ten additional
for sale vehicles may be stored indoors.
The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.

Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-7, State Street Zone (SSC) Page 1 of 16
Chapter 17-7-7
STATE STREET ZONE (SSC)

17-7-7.2 Uses.

Ifa use is not specifically designated, it is prohibited. Uses designated with an asterisk (*) have
additional use-specific standards included in subsection (A) of this section. Some uses have
additional standards included in Chapter 17-6, Supplementary Regulations.

Table 17-7-7.2. Uses
Type Allowed Administrative Conditional Business
License

Accessory Building—Unoccupied, x

Single Family only

Alcoholic Beverage

Class A License x x

Class B License x x

Class C Tavern x x
Restaurant x x

Package Agency x x

Private Club X x
State Liquor Store x
Animal Hospital x x
Assembly Use x x
Assisted Living Facility
<1 acre x X

The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2025-12, passed June 17, 2025.

Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-7, State Street Zone (SSC) Page 2 of 16

> acre x x

Auditorium, Assembly Hall x x

Bed and Breakfast x x

Cafe/Deli x x

Car Wash x x

Child Care

< 6 children xX x

2 7 children Xx Xx

Commercial Repair Services x x

Dwellings

Single Family x

Duplex x

Multifamily

< 1lacre x

> 1acre x

External Accessory Dwelling Unit* =X

Entertainment Center Xx Xx

Fences

7' or less x

>7' Xx

Financial Institution

W/drive-up window x x

W/o drive-up window x x

Heliport x xX
The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2025-12, passed June 17, 2025.

Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-7, State Street Zone (SSC) Page 3of 16
Home Occupation xX x
Hotel/Motel x x
Internal Accessory Dwelling Unit* 4
Itinerant Merchant
Vending Carts x x
Seasonal Food Stands x x
Christmas Tree Sales xX x
Fireworks Stands x x
Seasonal Produce Stands x x
Seasonal Flower Stands x x
Kennel x x
Manufactured Home x
Master Planned Development x
Medical Cannabis Pharmacy* x x
Mixed-Use x x
Mortuary, Funeral Home Xx x
Municipal Facilities
Parks x
Public Safety Facility x
Public Utilities
Minor x
Major x
Recreational Facilities x
Trails x
The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2025-12, passed June 17, 2025.

Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-7, State Street Zone (SSC) Page 4 of 16

Nursery, Commercial X x

Office

General x x

Intensive and Clinical, Medical x x

Outdoor Dining x x

Outdoor Storage x

Parking Lot

Commercial x Xx

Private xX

Pre-Existing Landscaping x

Pre-Existing Lighting (outdoor) x

Pre-Existing Lot x

Pre-Existing Structure x

Pre-Existing Use x

Quasi-Public Facilities x x

Radio Station x x

Recreation Facility

Commercial x x

Private x

Religious/Educational Institute

Permanent x x

Temporary xX x

Restaurant

W/drive-up window x Xx
The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2025-12, passed June 17, 2025.

Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-7, State Street Zone (SSC) Page Sof 16
W/o drive-up window Xx Xx

Retail and Service Commercial

W/drive-up window xX x

W/o drive-up window x x

24 hour use x

Self-Service Storage Facility x Xx

Shopping Center x x
Telecommunications Facility x

Transportation Facility

Major xX

Minor x

Mehigie-felaradtise

Sales and Service (Major) x Bad xX ——{Formatted:Font Bold sid;
Filling Station kK Kf Formatted: Font Bold
Warehouse/Distribution x x

17-7-7.8 Parking.
An applicant for new development or the expansion by more than twenty-five percent of an
existing building mass or site size in the zone must provide off-street parking with adequate
provisions for independent ingress and egress by automobiles and other motorized vehicles as
follows. The planning commission shall grant a reduction of up to thirty-five percent of required
parking upon an applicant’s demonstration of opportunities for shared parking within a
mixed-use development.

The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2025-12, passed June 17, 2025.

Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-7, State Street Zone (SSC) Page 6of 16
Table 17-7-7.8. Parking
oa Parking Requirement (Number of Spaces)
1 per 5 seats or 3 per 100 s.f. of assembly area
| | |
Bed and Breakfast 1 per bedroom plus 1 per employee per shift
Inn
3 per 1,000 s.f. of net leasable building area
Self Serve 3 stacking spaces per wash bay
Automatic Tunnel 6 stacking spaces per wash bay
(primary)
Automatic Tunnel 8 stacking spaces per wash bay
(secondary)
Child Care 1 per on-duty staff per shift and 1 per 6 children
Facility/Center
Convenience Store, 5 per 1,000 s.f. of net leasable building area
Support Commercial
Uses
Duplex Dwelling 2 spaces per dwelling unit
Entertainment 1 per 4 seats or 5 per 1,000s.f. of floor area, depending on type of facility
Center
The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2025-12, passed June 17, 2025.

Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-7, State Street Zone (SSC) Page 7of 16
| = | Parking Requirement (Number of Spaces)
Financial Institution | 3 per 1,000 s.f. of net leasable building area
Group Care Facility The greater of: 1 per 2 bedrooms plus 1 per employee per shift or 2 per 3 employees
per shift
Hospital, Limited 1 per 2 beds
Care
Hospital, General 3 per bed
1 per suite and 1 space per 200 s.f. of separately leasable space
!ADU/EADU 1 space per unit
Master Planned Determined by planning commission, based on proposed uses and potential for
Development shared parking
Commercial Portions | Determined by most applicable use in this section
Residential Portions | 1.5 spaces per 1 bedroom unit; 2 spaces per 2 bedroom unit; 2.5 spaces per 3
bedroom unit and greater; plus 1 space per every 4 units for guest parking
Multifamily Dwelling | Apartment/Condominium not greater 1 per dwelling unit
than 650 s.f. floor area
Apartment/Condominium 650 to 1,000 1.5 per dwelling unit
s.f. floor area
Apartment/Condominium 1,000 to 2,500 | 2 per dwelling unit
s.f. floor area
The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2025-12, passed June 17, 2025.

Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-7, State Street Zone (SSC) Page 8 of 16
oe Parking Requirement (Number of Spaces)
Apartment/Condominium 2,500 s.f. floor | 3 per dwelling unit
area or more

Neighborhood 2 per 1,000 s.f. of net leasable building area

Commercial

Offices, General 3 per 1,000 s.f. of net leasable building area

Offices, Intensive 5 per 1,000 s.f. of net leasable building area

and Clinic, Medical

Public and The greatest of: 1 per 5 seats, or 2 per 3 employees, or 1 per 1,000 s.f.

Quasi-Public

Institution, Church

and School; Public

Utility

Recreation Facility, 1 per 4 persons (based on the facility's maximum rated capacity)

Private

Recreation Facility, The greatest of: 1 per 4 seats, 5 per 1,000 s.f. of floor area, or 1 per 3 persons rated

Commercial capacity. For tennis- and pickleball-only facilities: 7 per court

Medical Cannabis 3 for each 1,000 s.f, of net leasable building area

Pharmacy

Retail & Service 5 for each 1,000 s.f. of net leasable building area

Commercial

Restaurant, Standard | 1 for every 100 s.f. of net leasable floor area, including kitchen areas

and Bar
5 per 1,000 s.f. of net leasable floor area

The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2025-12, passed June 17, 2025.

Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-7, State Street Zone (SSC) Page 9of 16
| | Parking Requirement (Number of Spaces)
Senior Affordable Not less than 1 space per dwelling unit; plus not less than 0.3 spaces per dwelling unit
Housing for guest parking
Shopping Centers, 3.5 per 1,000 s.f, of net leasable building area
Multi-Tenant Retail
Spaces
Single Family 2 spaces per dwelling unit
Dwelling
Temporary 1 for every 2 employees in the largest shift plus 1 for each vehicle used in conducting
Construction Sites the business
| paces, plus 1peremployee per shift and a minimum of 2 forcustemers serampioves 74 hiftandaminimumso 9 LSLOMye
Vehicdesalastenial
(MajeA area
1 per 1,000 s.f. of floor area
Wholesale 1 for every 2 employees in the largest shift plus 1 for each vehicle used in conducting
the business and wholesale storage uses at 1 per 1,000 s.f. of floor area
17-7-7.11 Conditional use standards of review.
2. Administrative Conditional Use.
a. Telecommunications Facility. This subsection applies to both commercial and private
low-power radio services and facilities, such as “cellular” or “PCS” (personal
communications system) communications and paging systems. Each application for a
telecommunications facility shall comply with the following:
The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2025-12, passed June 17, 2025.
