                                 ORDINANCE NO. 2025.0-I8

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER I7-7-TT OF THE MIDVALE CITY
MUNICIPAL CODE ENTITLED MAIN STREET FORM BASED CODE CLARIFYING
PROVISIONS RELATED TO NOISE, OUTDOOR DINING, COOKING, LIGHT
POLLUTION, SIGNAGE, AND BUILDING USES

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated Sections l0-8-84 and 10-9a-501 though
l0-9a-503, Midvale City ("the City") has authority to make and amend any regulation of or
within zoning districts or any other provision ofthe land use ordinance to promote the prosperity,
improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, convenience, and aesthetics of the
municipality; and

        WHEREAS, on January 2,2002, the Midvale Cit! Zoning Ordinance, Title l7 of the
Midvale City Municipal Code (lhe "Code"). became et'g9iive and. is subject to amendments lrom
time to time pursuant to Section l7-3- l the Code; and{.. ,j
                                                      lrl      .*-.         r


        WHEREAS. pursuant to Section l6-01-0lo ol$Jgob.. the'Qrt'desires to protect and
provide lor the public health. safety. and general weltar\oT ilre cityl piotbct the character and
social and economic stability ofall parts ofthe city: proteh. arff preServe the value ofland
throughout the municipality; guide public and private policy and action; establish responsible
standards; prevent pollution and degradation ofair, streams, and ponds; preserve the natural
beauty and topography; and provide for open spaces through the most efficient design and layout
ofthe land;

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 17- 1- I of the Code, the City desires to promote
coordinated development, redevelopment, effective use ofland, and site planning; protect and
promote public safety, health, and general welfare by providing adequate light and air, water and
sewage control, police, fire and wetlands protection; and secure economy in govemmental
expenditures; and

       WHEREAS, the City desires to amend Chapter 17-7-l I of the Code entitled Main Street
Form Based Code to clarifu provisions related to noise, outdoor dining, cooking, light pollution,
signage, and building uses ; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on September lO' 2025,to
review the requested amendments and, after considering all the information received, made a
recommendation to approve the amendment request to the City Council; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on october 7,
2025; and

       WHEREAS, after taking into consideration citizen testimony, planning analysis, and the
Planning Commission's recommendation as part of its deliberations, the City Council finds it is
appropriate and within the best interest ofthe City to make changes to the Code.
        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council olMidvale City, Utah
as follows:



        Section l. The following section of the Midvale City Municipal Code is hereby
        amended as included in the attachment to this document:

              .   Attachment A: Amending Chapter 17-7-ll.

        Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect upon the date of first publication.

        PASSED AND APPROVED this 21s1 day                      Oct ober,2025.
                                    Y SIA ,6
                               a
                          :S
                                                   c
                          o                            Dustin Gettel, Mayor
                       -                           ,
                          I        4tt.v r. tsdl   t
        T                                              Voting by City Council   "Aye"     "Nay"
                                       RATE            Bonnie Billings           t,/
                                                       Paul Glover               v.
                          C
                                                       Heidi Robinson
                                                       Bryant Brown
                                                                                rlfurf
                                                                                't/
C    Recorder                                          Denece Mikolash            L/
Date of first publicati
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                Page 1 of 166




                                        Chapter 17-7-11
                   MAIN STREET FORM-BASED CODE (MS-FBC)

Sections:
  17-7-11.1     The Main Street neighborhood.
  17-7-11.2     Form districts.
  17-7-11.3     Uses.
  17-7-11.4     Street types.
  17-7-11.5     Frontages.
  17-7-11.6     Building types.
  17-7-11.7     Open space.
  17-7-11.8     Landscaping.
  17-7-11.9     Parking.
  17-7-11.10    Signage.
  17-7-11.11    Administration.
  17-7-11.12    Definitions.




17-7-11.1        The Main Street neighborhood.

A. The Main Street Neighborhood.

    1. The form-based code (FBC) for the Main Street district was developed in response to the
    city’s previous planning projects. The 2016 general plan (GP) identifies the neighborhood as
    one of the city’s “opportunity areas.” The Main Street small area plan (SAP) was adopted in
    2018 to further define what those opportunities are, develop more specific goals, and
    provide strategic projects to achieve those goals. Creating and adopting an FBC for the
    Main Street area is one of those strategic projects.

    2. The FBC district is located in a unique place near the western edge of the city limits and
    between the recent Bingham Junction developments and the I-15 and railway corridor. It
    incorporates the historic Main Street and the surrounding light industrial and commercial
    properties. The FBC district boundary is shown in Figure 1.01.




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                Page 2 of 166


                   Figure 1.01. Main Street Form-Based Code District Boundary




B. Goals.

    1. The goals for the future of the Main Street neighborhood are presented in both the GP
    and SAP. These goals were developed over several years through various planning
    processes that included input from local residents, business and property owners, elected
    and professional members of the city government, and professional planning consultants.




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                Page 3 of 166


    2. The many goals for the Main Street neighborhood can be combined into one objective:
    create a vibrant, walkable town center. The individual goals include improved connectivity
    to the surrounding areas and TRAX station, bikeway connections, human-scale walkable
    development, both to preserve the historic character of Main Street and promote new
    development, greater use diversity, support existing businesses and attract new
    investment, strengthen residential areas, and improve neighborhood identity.

    3. When implemented well, FBCs have been shown to produce more reliably predictable
    outcomes than traditional land use zoning. When preferred development goals are
    identified, an FBC can be customized to achieve the desired results. This FBC has been
    written and designed to meet the specific goals for the future of Midvale’s Main Street
    neighborhood.

C. History and Existing Conditions.

    1. Midvale City, formerly known as Bingham Junction, was established at an important
    railroad crossing and became a center of mining industries. From 1871 to 1987, several
    different companies operated a number of smelters, refineries, and mills just west of Main
    Street. These operations processed copper, lead, zinc, arsenic, silver, and cadmium from
    ores that originated from mines in both the Bingham and Little Cottonwood canyons. The
    Main Street neighborhood sprang up directly adjacent to these extensive ore industries
    and became the thriving downtown of Midvale City.

    2. Since the height of the Midvale mining industry, the Main Street neighborhood has
    faced significant challenges. Main Street is no longer the commercial and social center of
    the city. It was incrementally isolated by the construction of I-15, freight and commuter
    railways, and the contaminated land left behind by the smelters.

    3. Recent changes have added new value and activity to the neighborhoods around Main
    Street. The large Bingham Junction commercial and residential development on the
    previously contaminated smelter land, the TRAX light rail commuter station, and new
    buildings in the area, including City Hall, have given the neighborhood momentum for
    improvement. Recent planning efforts are guiding this momentum to produce a thriving
    town center type of neighborhood.




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                   Page 4 of 166


    4. The Main Street neighborhood is zoned primarily for residential uses and was
    substantially developed prior to 1950. (Ord. 2024-28 § 1 (Att. A); Ord. 2022-03A § 1 (Att. H); Ord.
    2020-04 § 1 (Att. A (part)))




17-7-11.2          Form districts.

A. Form Districts.

    1. Form District Types.

         a. This FBC defines two distinct types of form districts:

               i. Main Street (MS);

               ii. Town center core (TCC).

         b. Subsections (A) through (C) of this section provide descriptions and example
         images for each form district.

    2. Form District Map.

         a. Figure 2.01 is the form district map. This map indicates the form district designation
         for all of the parcels within the FBC area. Form district designations are made based on
         the geographic location of each parcel and the relationships between adjacent form
         districts and streets.


                                        Figure 2.01. Form District Map




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                Page 5 of 166




              i. Most of the district boundaries between different form districts are drawn along
              existing parcel lines.

                  (A) Changes to form district designation for parcels along a form district
                  boundary may be considered for approval by the community development
                  director only if parcels on both sides of the boundary are to be developed as
                  part of the same lot.




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                Page 6 of 166


                       (1) Form district boundaries may deviate from parcel boundaries if the
                       new form district boundary is clearly indicated and dimensioned on a site
                       plan and is approved by the community development director.

                       (2) It is important to maintain the Main Street (MS) form district
                       designation along both sides of Main Street, as shown in Figure 2.01. Any
                       changes to an MS district boundary shall not remove the MS district
                       designation from the Main Street frontage of a lot. All building facades
                       along Main Street shall meet the use, frontage, and building type
                       requirements of the MS form district.

              ii. Form district boundaries that are not drawn along existing parcel lines have
              been drawn in anticipation of future changes in development patterns.

                  (A) This type of form district boundary is subject to change as future
                  redevelopment occurs. Changes shall fit new parcel lines, not significantly
                  change the size of the form district, and are to be made by the community
                  development director.

                  (B) For parcels containing multiple form district designations, those
                  designations within the parcel may be changed, subject to approval by the
                  community development director as part of the preliminary application
                  process.

                  (C) Buildings may cross form district boundaries but are subject to the design
                  requirements of each district in which each portion of the building is located.

    3. Form District and Correlated FBC Sections.

         a. The form district is one of the central organizing regulations within the FBC. Figure
         2.02 shows the relationships between the major FBC regulations. These relationships
         take the form of permission and limitations for different combinations of the
         regulation parameters.


          Figure 2.02. Correlations Between the Major FBC Regulations and Requirements




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                Page 7 of 166




    4. Building Type and Use in Each Form District.

         a. Tables 2.01 and 2.02 describe the relationships between use, building type, and
         each form district. These tables compile information found in other sections of the FBC
         and are presented in this chapter as a quick reference between the
         permissions/limitations regarding use, building type, and the form district map. Section
         17-7-11.3 governs allowed uses and provides additional detail on specific
         requirements.

B. Main Street (MS) District.

    1. The unique character of Midvale’s Main Street distinguishes it from the other streets in
    both the neighborhood and the city. Because of these distinctions, the goals for the MS
    form district differ from the other districts. The primary purpose of the MS district is to
    preserve and promote the building forms, historic character, and experience of the
    traditional main street.

    2. The district boundary is drawn to include all land parcels that are adjacent to the Main
    Street right-of-way. This boundary allows the form of the entire street to be guided by the
    same form standards. This will build up a street that is continuously cohesive in its form,
    maintains the character of a traditional main street, and is legible as the city’s historic Main
    Street.

    3. The Main Street street type is unique to the MS district. This street type provides public
    space with the characteristics that are compatible with the existing and historic buildings
    and a pedestrian-oriented Main Street experience. Shared bike lanes along Main Street
    introduce additional connections and people.




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                Page 8 of 166


    4. Uses permitted in the MS district are compatible with both the permitted building types
    and with an active town center that serves the needs of local residents. Residential uses will
    help activate the MS district.

    5. The primary frontage along Main Street ensures that buildings front directly on the
    street. This provides the spatial relationship between buildings and the street that supports
    the pedestrian nature and active use goals for the MS district.


                                     Table 2.01. Main Street District:

                        Permitted Uses by Building Type and Floor Designation


                                                    Building Type

                           Use                                                                              Formatted Table
                                                Limited
                                     General                  Row         Civic
                                                  Bay



                       Residential     G+U         Not        G+U              N
                       and
                                                Permitted
                       Lodging



                       Civic           G+U                      N          G+U



                       Retail           G                     G+U              N



                       Service          G                     G+U              N



                       Office and      G+U                    G+U              N
                       Industrial



                      Industrial      G+U                    G+U               N




                       G+U =                      N = Not Permitted
                       Ground




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                Page 9 of 166



                                                    Building Type

                            Use                                                                             Formatted Table
                                                Limited
                                      General                 Row         Civic
                                                  Bay



                       and Upper
                       Floors



                       G=                       U = Upper Floors Only
                       Ground
                       Floor Only


C. Town Center Core (TCC) District.

    1. The primary purpose of this district is to guide development and redevelopment that
    will provide the physical and spatial forms that support a walkable, vibrant, and attractive
    town center. This expands the town center style development from Main Street to the
    greater neighborhood.

    2. The TCC district is the largest district in the FBC area. The boundary is drawn to include
    properties along the major streets (Holden St./700 W., and Center St.) and parcels adjacent
    to those street-fronting properties. This guides future development and redevelopment
    that concentrates along these major streets and creates a town center neighborhood,
    rather than just a Main Street.

    3. The street hierarchy is evident within the TCC district, which includes all three types of
    streets. These street types are complemented with frontage types that create a hierarchy
    of smoothly transitioning street/building spatial relationships.

    4. Redevelopment in the TCC district provides an opportunity to build new streets that
    provide the much-needed connection across Holden Street. This increased connectivity
    supports multiple modes of transportation.

    5. The TCC district accommodates most diversity of uses and building forms. This allows
    for more modern types of development, larger buildings, a wider range of styles, and a use
    mix that supports a thriving town center.




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                          Page 10 of 166


                                     Table 2.02. Town Center Core District:

                               Permitted Uses by Building Type and Floor Designation


                                                                          Building Type

                                       Use
                                                                          Limited
                                                                General              Row      Civic
                                                                            Bay



                       Residential and Lodging                   G+U        G+U      G+U       N



                       Civic                                     G+U         N        N       G+U



                       Retail                                     G          G       G+U       N



                       Service                                    G         G+U      G+U       N



                       Office and Industrial                     G+U        G+U      G+U       N




                       G+U = Ground and Upper Floors                   N = Not Permitted



                       G = Ground Floor Only                          U = Upper Floors Only



(Ord. 2024-28 § 1 (Att. A); Ord. 2020-04 § 1 (Att. A (part)))




17-7-11.3           Uses.

Some uses have additional standards included in Chapter 17-6, Supplementary Regulations.

A. General Requirements.

     1. General Provisions.

          a. The following provisions apply to the uses outlined in this section:


         The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 11 of 166


              i. Permitted Mixed Uses. Individual buildings may contain more than one use. Use
              can vary between ground and upper floors of a building.

              ii. Form District Permissions. Within each form district, each use is either permitted
              by right (with some uses limited to upper floors only) or is not permitted.

              iii. Building Type Permissions. Each use shall be located within a permitted building
              type on a permitted floor.

              iv. Indoor/Outdoor. Each use may have both indoor and outdoor facilities, unless
              otherwise specified.

    2. Organization.

         a. Uses are grouped into general categories and subcategories. See Table 3.01. If a
         proposed use is not listed in the use tables, the following shall apply:

              i. Unlisted Similar Use. If a use is not listed but is similar in nature and impact to a
              use permitted within a form district, the city may interpret the use as permitted.
              The unlisted use will be subject to any development standards applicable to the
              similar permitted use.

              ii. Unlisted Dissimilar Use. If a use is not listed and cannot be interpreted as similar
              in nature and impact to a use within a form district that is permitted, the use is not
              permitted and may only be approved through an amendment of this code.

    3. Use Table.

         a. Table 3.01 outlines the uses in each form district as permitted by one of the
         following designations:

              i. Permitted. These uses are permitted by right and indicated with a “P” in the
              table.

              ii. Permitted in Upper Stories Only. These uses are permitted, by right, but only in
              upper stories of a building, i.e., not in the ground floor. They are indicated with a
              “U” in the table.

              iii. Not Permitted. These uses are not permitted and are indicated by a “N” in the
              table.

        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 12 of 166


                                          Table 3.01. Use by Form District


                                                           Form District

                                     Use Category

                                                           MS         TCC



                            Residential and Lodging



                            Residential                    P           P



                            Hotel and Inn                  P           P



                            Residential Care               N           U



                            Civic and Institutional



                            Assembly (Public and           P           P
                            Private)



                            Transit Station                P           P



                            Medical/Dental Clinic          P           P



                            Library/Museum/Post            P           P
                            Office



                            Police and Fire                N           P



                            School                         U           U



                            Retail



                            General Retail                 P           P




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 13 of 166



                                                           Form District

                                  Use Category

                                                           MS         TCC



                            Neighborhood Retail            P           P



                            Drive-Through                  N           N



                            Itinerant Merchants            P           P



                            Service



                            General Service                P           P



                            Neighborhood Service           P           P



                            Office and Industrial



                            Office/Professional            PU          U



                            Craftsman/Industrial           N           P



                            Accessory Uses



                            Home Occupation                P           P



                            Attached Parking               P           P
                            Structure



                            Storage Building/Carport       P           P



                            Site Uses




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 14 of 166



                                                           Form District

                                     Use Category

                                                           MS         TCC



                              Utility/Infrastructure       P           P



                              Parking Lot                  P           P



                              Detached Parking             P           P
                              Structure



                              Open Space                   P           P



                              Telecommunications           P           P
                              Facility


B. Specific Use Provisions.

    1. Itinerant Merchants.

         a. General Requirements. The city shall not issue a business license for an itinerant
         merchant unless the following general and applicable specific criteria are
         demonstrated as part of the business license application:

              i. Location on Private Property. The business and any activity associated therewith
              must be located on private property and only as a secondary use to another
              primary commercial use. The business shall not be located on public property
              (including public sidewalks, public streets, public parking areas or other public
              places as defined by the city) or on vacant or residentially used property.

              ii. Impervious Surface. The business must be located on a hard surface with no
              portion of the business located in a landscaped or unimproved area.

              iii. Setbacks. The business must be located a minimum of five feet from
              combustible walls, roof eave lines, awnings, etc.; ten feet from any building
              openings (i.e., doors, windows, vents, etc.); and five feet from any fire hydrant,



        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 15 of 166


              driveway, handicapped parking space and loading area. Space for queuing shall be
              provided on private property.

              iv. Lease. There must be a valid lease or written permission from the private
              property owner expressly allowing the use of property for the business that is the
              subject of this section. The merchant shall demonstrate the ability to utilize an
              existing restroom facility on or nearby the property.

              v. Traffic Safety. The business location shall not impede auto and/or pedestrian
              traffic or create auto/pedestrian conflicts. Private sidewalk clear widths shall not
              be reduced below five feet and the itinerant business shall not interfere with the
              internal parking lot circulation.

              vi. Power. All electrical wiring must be in compliance with the National Electrical
              Code and approved by the Midvale City building department. Extension cords and
              generators are prohibited.

              vii. Temporary Only. All aspects of the business shall be temporary in nature with
              no permanent facilities constructed on site, with the exception of the required
              permanent power source.

              viii. Maintenance. The area around the business shall be kept clean and orderly. A
              trash receptacle shall be provided for patrons. The merchant is responsible to
              clean up all trash, litter, spills, etc., within a minimum twenty-foot radius of the
              business.

              ix. Business Conduct. The business may not solicit or conduct business with
              persons in motor vehicles or use any flashing lights, noise, sound or other motion-
              producing devices to attract attention to its operation.

              x. Regulatory Compliance. All applicable local and state regulations (i.e., food
              permit, tax numbers, registration, etc.) shall be met.

              xi. Site Plan. A site plan, drawn to scale, showing the exact location of the itinerant
              merchant (including all components of the business) with setbacks to buildings,
              sidewalks, roadways, driveways, parking, fire hydrants, and other important
              features shall be provided. A photograph or illustration showing components of
              the business, including cart and awning dimensions, trash receptacles, coolers,


        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 16 of 166


              signage, electrical plans, etc., shall be provided, as well as other information
              required to show compliance with the applicable requirements contained herein.

         b. Specific Requirements.

              i. Each business license application for a vending cart must comply with the
              following:

                  (A) There shall be a minimum separation of two hundred feet between all
                  vending cart locations. This separation shall be measured as a radius in all
                  directions, with the vending cart location being the center point.

                  (B) The vending cart must be located no closer than thirty feet from a single
                  family residential zone.

                  (C) Any vending cart selling food items shall not be located within two
                  hundred feet of the primary public entrance of an existing restaurant use
                  except that an existing restaurant is allowed to operate a vending cart within
                  this area, provided all other provisions of this section are satisfied.

                  (D) The vending cart shall be constructed of surface materials that are
                  primarily stainless steel and in accordance with the Salt Lake Valley health
                  department regulations. Transparent, plastic sides may be extended above
                  the cart’s preparation/counter surface, provided these sides do not extend
                  beyond the width or length of the cart and three feet above the preparation
                  counter/surface, if it is kept clean, and is free of signage and other
                  attachments. The vending cart shall not exceed a width of four feet and a
                  length of six feet (a hitch may extend a maximum of two feet beyond the
                  length of the cart). The maximum height of the vending cart, excluding
                  canopies or umbrellas, shall be five feet. A vending cart may include a built-in
                  canopy, provided it does not extend more than three feet beyond the width of
                  the cart on each side and any extension beyond the cart width is a minimum
                  of seven feet above the parking lot surface. This canopy shall be an earth tone
                  color or be finished stainless steel.

                  (E) The vendor shall be limited to three stacked coolers (the footprint of each
                  cooler shall not exceed three and three-quarters square feet in size), one trash



        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 17 of 166


                  receptacle, one chair, and a freestanding umbrella (not to exceed a six-foot
                  diameter) external to the vending cart. All other freestanding devices, i.e.,
                  signs, propane tanks, tables, racks, customer seating, overhead structures (i.e.,
                  tarps, enclosures, canopy extensions), etc., are prohibited. The freestanding
                  umbrella shall be an earthtone color, and, if extending beyond the front and
                  side edges of the cart, must be a minimum of seven feet above the ground
                  surface.

                  (F) Signage shall be attached to the vending cart and occupy no more than
                  four square feet on the street-facing side of the cart. Signs shall not be
                  internally illuminated or make use of flashing or intermittent lighting or
                  animation devices. Pennants, streamers, lawn banners and other temporary
                  signs are prohibited.

                  (G) A portable fire extinguisher, Type 2A-10 BC minimum, must be mounted
                  within easy reach on the vending cart.

                  (H) All aspects of the business shall be moved on and off the premises each
                  day of operation. No overnight parking or outdoor storage is allowed. Any
                  vending cart selling food items must be cleaned and stored at a commissary
                  approved by the Salt Lake Valley health department.

                  (I) The vending cart and all related business items shall be maintained in
                  good condition and repair at all times.

                  (J) The business shall be conducted only between the hours of six a.m. and
                  ten p.m.

    2. Medical Cannabis.

         a. Proximity Restrictions. A medical cannabis pharmacy use shall meet the proximity
         requirements as specified and amended in Utah Code Annotated Section 26-61a-301.

         b. Application Requirements. An applicant for a medical cannabis pharmacy use must
         provide a description of the physical characteristics of the proposed facility, including a
         site plan, floor plan, architectural elevations, and a security plan as part of the business
         license application for the use. Fencing and security devices must comply with
         applicable city requirements.


        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 18 of 166


         c. Signage. In addition to those requirements within this title, all signage associated
         with a medical cannabis pharmacy use shall comply with any requirements imposed by
         the state of Utah.

    3. Retail Tobacco Specialty Business.

         a. Proximity Restrictions. A retail tobacco specialty business use shall meet the
         proximity requirements as specified and amended in Utah Code Annotated Section 10-
         8-41.6.

    4. Outdoor Dining. Each application for an outdoor dining use shall comply with the
    following:

         a. The dining area shall be located on private property or leased public property and
         shall not diminish required parking or landscaping.

         b. The dining area shall not impede pedestrian circulation.

         c. The dining area shall not impede emergency access or circulation.

         d. The outdoor furnishings shall be compatible with the streetscape and associated
         building.

         e. No music or noise shall be in excess of the city noise ordinance. Outdoor music
         shall not be audible off premises. No outdoor music shall be allowed after 10:00 p.m.

         f. No use after ten-thirty p.m. and before seven a.m.

         fg. No part of the outdoor dining area shall be located within twenty feet of any
         existing residential zoneuse (measured from the edge of the outdoor dining area to
         the closest boundaryproperty line of the residential zoneuse), unless the residential
         use is part of a mixed-use building or the outdoor dining area is separated from the
         residential use by a commercial building..

         gh. Cooking facilities shall be located within the primary building. No cCooking
         utilities, including grills and smokers, shall be are permitted for use in the outdoor
         dining areas.

         hi. The outdoor dining area shall be kept in a clean condition and free of litter and
         food items which constitute a nuisance to public health, safety and welfare.

        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 19 of 166


    5. Pawn Shops.

         a. Display areas are limited to those shown on the approved site plan and may not
         exceed a combined one hundred square feet in size.

    6. Telecommunications Facility. Telecommunications facilities shall be wall- or roof-mounted
    and shall comply with the following:

         a. Wall-Mounted Antenna.

              i. Antennas mounted directly on existing parapet walls, penthouses, or
              mechanical equipment rooms are considered a wall-mounted antenna if no
              portion of the antenna extends above the roofline of the building or extends no
              more than four feet horizontally from the face of the building. Whip antennas are
              not allowed on a wall-mounted antenna structure.

              ii. Antennas, equipment, and the supporting structures shall be selected to
              achieve architectural compatibility with the host structure to which they are
              attached.

              iii. Two types of wall-mounted antennas are allowed: stealth-mounted and non-
              stealth-mounted.

                  (A) Stealth facilities shall be designed to substantially conceal and camouflage
                  the antennas and associated equipment.

                       (1) The planning commission shall review and may grant approval for any
                       new antenna(s) that require construction of a new screening wall. New
                       screening wall(s) shall be in harmony with the structure’s mass,
                       architectural features, and overall aesthetics. Architectural and structural
                       renderings, three-dimensional representation, line-of-sight diagrams,
                       photo simulations, and/or building elevations of the proposed
                       modifications may be required to effectively demonstrate the requested
                       changes meeting the intent of this chapter.

                       (2) Area Limitations for Stealth Wall-Mounted Antennas. The total area for
                       all stealth wall-mounted antennas and supporting structures combined
                       shall not exceed five percent of any exterior wall of the building. Stealth



        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 20 of 166


                       wall-mounted antennas may occupy a maximum of four walls. The total
                       calculated area is the sum of each individual antenna and the visible
                       portion of the supporting structure as viewed when looking directly at the
                       face of the building.

                  (B) Non-stealth facilities shall only be considered in locations in which
                  adverse visual impacts are not a substantial concern due to the location of the
                  facility, the nature of the surrounding land uses, and not visible from public
                  vantage points.

                       (1) Area Limitations for Non-Stealth Wall-Mounted Antennas. The total area
                       for all non-stealth wall-mounted antennas and supporting structures
                       combined shall not exceed forty square feet for each exterior wall of the
                       building or a total of one hundred sixty square feet per building. The total
                       calculated area is the sum of each individual antenna and the visible
                       portion of the supporting structure as viewed when looking directly at the
                       face of the building.

         b. Roof-Mounted Antenna.

              i. Antennas, equipment, and the supporting structures shall be selected to
              achieve architectural compatibility with the host structure to which they are
              attached.

              ii. Roof-mounted antennas are an allowed use only on a flat roof and shall be
              screened, constructed and painted to match the structure to which they are
              attached. The planning commission shall review and may grant approval to place
              roof-mounted stealth antennas on a pitched roof if the antenna(s) are compatible
              with the existing structure. Roof-mounted antennas may be mounted on existing
              penthouses or mechanical equipment rooms if the antennas and antenna support
              structures are enclosed or visually screened from view.

              iii. Two types of roof-mounted antennas are allowed: stealth-mounted and non-
              stealth-mounted.

                  (A) Stealth facilities shall be designed to substantially conceal and camouflage
                  the antennas and associated equipment.



        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 21 of 166


                       (1) Antennas shall be mounted at least five feet behind any parapet wall
                       or from the exterior wall of the building. The maximum height of an
                       antenna mounted between five and ten feet behind a parapet or exterior
                       wall shall be directly proportional to the setback distance and may not
                       exceed a height of ten feet above the top of the parapet wall or roofline of
                       the building.

                       (2) The planning commission shall review and may grant approval for any
                       new antenna(s) that require construction of a new screening wall. New
                       screening wall(s) shall be in harmony with the structure’s mass,
                       architectural features, and overall aesthetics. Architectural and structural
                       renderings, three-dimensional representation, line-of-sight diagrams,
                       photo simulations, and/or building elevations of the proposed
                       modifications may be required to effectively demonstrate the requested
                       changes meeting the intent of this chapter.

                   (B) Non-stealth facilities shall only be considered in locations in which
                   adverse visual impacts are not a substantial concern due to the location of the
                   facility and the nature of the surrounding land uses.

    7. Reserved.

    8. Fire Station. Due to their unique operational requirements, fire stations may:

         a. Have garage doors located on the front facade.

         b. Have wider driveway widths than the maximum allowed by frontage type.

         c. Have visitor parking areas within the front yard and required parking setback areas;
         provided, all parking-related landscape requirements are satisfied.

         d. Be located outside of the build-to zone and corner occupation requirements,
         including the corner occupation requirement for primary facade courtyards.

         e. Be exempted from frontage coverage requirements.

         f. Use equipment storage garages to meet occupied depth requirements.

         g. Be shorter than the required minimum building height.


        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 22 of 166


         h. Install turf grass along one side of vehicle access points between the nearest
         building elevation and the property line.

    9. Police Station. Due to their unique operational requirements, police stations may:

         a. Have garage doors located on the front facade.

         b. Have wider driveway widths than the maximum allowed by frontage type.

         c. Have visitor parking areas within the front yard and required parking setback areas;
         provided, all parking-related landscape requirements are satisfied.

    10. Internal Accessory Dwelling Unit.

         a. An IADU may only be constructed on a lot with one detached single family dwelling.
         The property owner must occupy one of the dwelling units on the property as their
         permanent residence for as long as the IADU remains on the property.

         b. The IADU must conform to all applicable standards in the building, plumbing,
         electrical, mechanical, fire, health, and any other applicable codes. A building permit is
         required prior to engaging in any construction activity on an IADU.

         c. Installing separate utility meters or separate addresses for an IADU is prohibited.

         d. Any additions to an existing building must comply with the development standards
         within this chapter.

         e. An IADU must provide off-street parking as described within this chapter.

         f. An IADU may not be constructed within a mobile home or manufactured home.

         g. An IADU may not be constructed on a lot with a total square footage of six
         thousand or less.

         h. Prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy for an IADU, the property owner must
         record a notice against the property’s title that includes:

              i. A description of the primary dwelling;

              ii. A statement that the property contains an IADU; and




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                     Page 23 of 166


              iii. A statement that the IADU may only be used in accordance with this title.

         i. An IADU may not be rented or leased for a period of less than thirty consecutive
         days.

         j. Only one IADU is permitted on each property.

C. Prohibited Uses. Except for existing legal nonconforming uses, the following uses are
prohibited throughout all form districts:

    1. Sexually oriented businesses;

    2. Auto-related uses;

    3. Medical cannabis production establishment;

    4. Outdoor storage. (Ord. 2024-27 § 1 (Att. A); Ord. 2024-19 § 1 (Att. A); Ord. 2021-19 § 1 (Att. A); Ord.
    2021-08 § 1 (Att. A); Ord. 2020-04 § 1 (Att. A (part)))




17-7-11.4          Street types.

A. General Requirements.

    1. Intent. The standards outlined in this section are intended to:

         a. Create complete streets that address all modes of travel, including pedestrian
         traffic, bicycle traffic, transit, and vehicular traffic;

         b. Address all features of the street right-of-way, including sidewalks, parkways, traffic
         lanes, bicycle lanes, and medians;

         c. Extend, where applicable, the existing logical and comprehensible system of streets
         and street names that result in a simple, consistent and understandable pattern of
         blocks, lots, and house numbers;

         d. Provide adequate access to all lots for vehicles and pedestrians;

         e. Create streets that are appropriate for their context in each of the form districts
         and are designed to encourage travel at appropriate volumes and speeds; and


        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 24 of 166


         f. Create streets and public rights-of-way that aid in the safe and efficient
         management of stormwater runoff.

    2. Applicability. The standards in this section apply to all vehicular rights-of-way within the
    Main Street FBC area. The majority of implementation activities will occur when an existing
    street is rebuilt or a new street is built.

    3. General Requirements.

         a. All proposed streets, landscape or furnishings zones, and sidewalks shall be located
         in dedicated vehicular rights-of-way.

         b. All new vehicular rights-of-way shall match one of the street types as described in
         subsections (D) through (F) of this section, whether publicly dedicated or privately held.

         c. All streets shall be available for public use at all times, except when closed by the
         city. Gated streets and streets posted as private are not permitted except when closed
         by the city.

    4. Street Construction Specifications. All construction in the right-of-way shall follow
    specifications defined by the city. The street standards within this section are intended to
    be minimum requirements. The city may use alternative designs when reconstructing
    streets, provided the general intent of street construction specifications of the
    neighborhood is maintained.

B. General Street Type Standards.

    1. Street Types.

         a. Street types defined in this section outline the acceptable street configurations for
         the FBC district.

         b. The street type map for the Main Street FBC district is shown in Figure 4.01. Solid
         lines indicate existing streets and dotted lines indicate potential new streets.

         c. Street type configurations are to be implemented when reconstructing existing
         streets or building new streets.

              i. The city may require changes to the right-of-way, pavement width, or additional
              street elements depending on unique site characteristics.

        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 25 of 166


              ii. The city may permit modifications to street widths and required improvements.
              Any modifications shall be approved by the community development director in
              consultation with the city engineer, public works director, and fire marshal.

              iii. The potential new streets provide the critical connectivity and realign existing
              streets for increased connectivity and efficiency. These potential streets are not
              formally proposed but illustrate how future streets can meet the connectivity and
              access needs of future developments, regardless of when those developments
              occur.

         d. The hierarchy of street types, from the most major to the most minor street type is:

              i. Main Street;

              ii. Major commercial street;

              iii. Minor commercial street.


                                          Figure 4.01. Street Type Map




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 26 of 166




    2. Graphics. The graphics in this chapter are samples of recommendations that illustrate a
    configuration of each street type. Exact cross-sections are subject to city review and
    approval. Examples in this chapter are drawn in detail for clarification purposes only. When
    applying the described standards to actual streets, other configurations are possible.

    3. Typical Street Elements. Typical elements of a right-of-way are divided into vehicular and
    pedestrian realms. Generally, the vehicular realm will be designed and controlled by the




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 27 of 166


    city. The pedestrian realm will be designed and improved by property owners, in
    coordination with the city.

         a. The vehicular realm is the space between the curbs on both sides of a street. It is
         comprised of travel lanes, parking lanes, turn lanes, transit stopping areas, bike lanes,
         and medians.

         b. The pedestrian realm is the space between the back of a street curb and the
         property line of the adjacent parcel. It is subdivided into two spaces, the park strip and
         the sidewalk. The sidewalk is the paved area along the edge of the right-of-way.
         Sidewalks are designed for the movement of pedestrian traffic along the street and
         pedestrian access to buildings. The park strip is the space between the sidewalk and
         the curb. It acts as a buffer area between the sidewalk and street. Park strips can be
         used in two different ways, described as two-use zones, the landscape zone and
         furnishings zone. These two-use zones are intermixed along each street based on the
         street type requirements.

              i. The landscape zone is where the park strip is unpaved and landscaped with
              ornamental plants, mulch, and/or street trees. It may also include swales, lighting,
              public art, and signage.

              ii. The furnishings zone is a paved portion of the park strip. It is designed for the
              pedestrian uses that would block the movement of pedestrian traffic in the
              sidewalk, such as sitting and gathering. Furnishings zones may include street trees
              in grates, street furniture, lighting, signage, bicycle parking, bollards, public art, and
              transit stops.

    4. Vehicular Travel Lanes. The number and width of vehicular travel lanes, parking lanes,
    and bike lanes are determined by the street type.

    5. Bicycle Lanes. The following types of bicycle accommodations are permitted in the
    vehicular zone per street type standards:

         a. “Dedicated bicycle lanes” are striped lanes on the outside of the outermost travel
         lane and are designated for bicycle use only. This lane typically occurs on both sides of
         the street and shall be five feet wide. The width of any adjacent gutters shall not be
         included in the bike lane width.



        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 28 of 166


         b. “Marked shared lanes” are shared by both vehicular and bicycle traffic and are
         indicated by the shared arrow or “sharrow” symbol, a directional arrow painted on the
         pavement. Marked shared lanes are typically wider than a standard vehicular travel
         lane and should be a minimum of thirteen feet wide.

         c. “Unmarked shared lanes” refers to streets without any marked bicycle lanes that
         have traffic speeds and enough space for cyclists to safely ride along. Without
         designations, markings, or signage, these are essentially determined by each individual
         cyclist, are unregulated, and are not actual “lanes.”

    6. Transportation Facilities. Transportation facilities include those for public transit and
    delivery trucks.

         a. Public transit facilities should be included at each bus stop and TRAX station
         according to the following criteria:

              i. Public transit facilities are located in the furnishings zone of the park strip and
              may include loading areas, landings, ramps, transit shelters, benches, lighting,
              pedestrian clear zones, and all other reasonable accommodations.

              ii. All public transit facilities shall be coordinated with the UTA.

         b. Truck loading spaces (TLS) provide on-street short-term loading spaces for delivery
         trucks to prevent them from parking in travel lanes and pedestrian areas.

              i. Each TLS must be located in and fit within the width of an on-street parking
              lane. Street types without on-street parking lanes shall not have any TLSs.

              ii. TLS pavement markings should clearly define the size of the TLS and be
              adequate to accommodate the length of a typical delivery vehicle. This may
              require a longer space than the standard on-street parking space.

              iii. Signage at each TLS shall clearly post the maximum time that a delivery vehicle
              may occupy the space and the times of day and days of the week when the TLS is
              reserved for delivery vehicle loading activities. The sign should also indicate that
              regular on-street parking is allowed during non-loading times.

              iv. The number and location of each TLS should be determined by city staff and
              based on the demand for loading space adjacent to existing buildings and uses.


        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 29 of 166


              The specific location of each TLS shall be indicated on the street and/or
              streetscape plans for each street.

    7. On-Street Parking. On-street parking requirements and permissions are determined by
    street type.

    8. Streetscape Landscaping.

         a. Streetscape designs shall be prepared for each street as part of a new or
         reconstructed street.

              i. Streetscape design plans shall be prepared by a landscape professional such as
              a landscape architect or certified landscape designer.

              ii. Whether a proposed development includes one or both sides of the street,
              streetscape plans must provide a consistent streetscape along the length of the
              street.

              iii. Streetscape plans shall meet the requirements in the pedestrian realm section
              of the applicable street type requirements table.

                   (A) The streetscape plan shall define the size and spacing of the landscape
                   and furnishings zones.

                   (B) Planting plans shall be included for all landscape zones and planted
                   medians.

         b. Street trees are required along all street fronts.

              i. Street trees shall be located in the park strip or bulb-out.

                   (A) In furnishings zones, trees shall be located in tree wells, covered by tree
                   grates, and planted in either structural soil or soil cells.

                   (B) In landscape zones, trees shall be planted with the ground plane
                   vegetation.

              ii. Street trees shall be regularly spaced at thirty feet on center and, where
              possible, coordinated with the location of light poles and utility poles in order to
              maintain consistent street tree spacing.


        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 30 of 166


              iii. The community development director may approve a modification to street
              tree location if the thirty-foot requirement impedes building facade visibility.

    9. Stormwater Management. Incorporating stormwater management best practices is
    encouraged. Park strip features that help with stormwater management include drainage
    swales and slotted curbs in the landscape zones and permeable pavement in the
    furnishings zones. Stormwater management structures shall be approved by the city
    engineer.

    10. Fire Access.

         a. Street configurations have been calculated to provide emergency vehicle access. On
         streets where the total width of all travel lanes is narrower than twenty feet, the
         following shall apply:

              i. Passing areas shall be provided at one hundred twenty-foot intervals where a
              thirty-foot opening in the on-street parking or a thirty-foot dedicated pullout space
              is provided for vehicles to pull over to allow a fire truck to pass.

              ii. A driveway curb cut or fire hydrant zone may be utilized to fulfill the pull over
              requirement.

C. General Street Layout Requirements.

    1. General Layout Standards. The following standards apply to new streets, reconstructed
    streets, or newly platted vehicular rights-of-way:

         a. Streets shall be designed to respect natural features, such as slopes, by following
         rather than being interrupted by or dead-ending at the feature.

         b. The street network shall form an interconnected pattern with multiple
         intersections.

         c. The arrangement of new or reconstructed streets shall provide for the continuation
         of existing streets from adjoining areas into new subdivisions.

    2. Intersections.




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                 Page 31 of 166


         a. Curb radii at intersections should be designed for the actual turning radius of the
         typical design vehicle, not the maximum design vehicle. The curb radius used at each
         intersection is determined by intersection type as shown in

         Table 4.01. The following curb radii shall be used unless otherwise required/
         authorized by the city:

              i. Small radii are required at intersection Type 1. See Table 4.01.

                  (A) Intersections with on-street parking on both streets shall have a five-foot
                  curb radius.

                  (B) Intersections with on-street parking on one or neither of the streets shall
                  have a fifteen-foot curb radius.

              ii. Medium radii are required at intersection Types 2 through 5. See Table 4.01.

                  (A) Intersections with on-street parking on both streets shall have a ten-foot
                  curb radius.

                  (B) Intersections with on-street parking on one or neither of the streets shall
                  have a twenty-five-foot curb radius.

              iii. Larger radii require special approval from the city and are limited to streets
              without on-street parking and intersections where a street must meet the design
              criteria for large vehicles.


                                     Table 4.01. Curb Radius Intersection Types


                                          Small Radius Intersections



                 Intersection Type                       Intersecting Street Types



                      Type 1              Minor Commercial Street      Minor Commercial Street




                                         Medium Radius Intersections




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 32 of 166



                 Intersection Type                     Intersecting Street Types



                      Type 2            Major Commercial Street      Major Commercial Street



                      Type 3            Major Commercial Street             Main Street



                      Type 4            Major Commercial Street      Minor Commercial Street



                      Type 5                    Main Street          Minor Commercial Street


         b. Marked crosswalks are required at all intersections and mid-block pedestrian
         crossings.

              i. Crosswalk marking type shall be determined by the community development
              director.

              ii. Crosswalk widths shall be a minimum of six feet.

              iii. Crosswalk markings shall be clearly located on the finished street surface and
              where required in parking and access areas. Crosswalks shall be marked with
              textured or colored pavement, thermoplastic applications, or another marking
              approved by the city.

              iv. Crosswalks with creative markings are allowed as a form of public art, with
              approval from the city.

              v. Crosswalk length shall encourage pedestrian activity. The required bulb-outs
              decrease unprotected crosswalk lengths which increases pedestrian safety and
              comfort.

              vi. Accessibility features such as ramps and warning panels, per the Americans
              with Disabilities Act or any more stringent state or local requirement, are required
              where all sidewalks terminate at a crosswalk or curb.

              vii. Ramps shall be oriented perpendicular to traffic, requiring two ramps per
              corner at intersecting streets.




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 33 of 166


         c. Bulb-outs shall be constructed at all intersections and mid-block crossings unless
         prohibited by the city.

              i. The depth of the bulb-out shall match the depth of the adjacent on-street
              parking lane (if any).

              ii. The radius of each bulb-out shall match the radius requirements for each
              intersection type. See Table 4.01.

              iii. Bulb-outs shall be planted with low-maintenance water-efficient live plants,
              which may include trees, that have a low mature height to provide unobstructed
              safety sight lines without requiring constant pruning.

    3. Street Lighting.

         a. Intent.

              i. To provide a safe and secure environment for motorists, bicyclists, and
              pedestrians;

              ii. To reduce glare from street and pedestrian lights on adjoining residences;

              iii. To contribute to the quality of each streetscape by integrating streetlight
              spacing and street tree spacing;

              iv. To respond to and further neighborhood character through the selection of
              light poles, bases, and fixtures appropriate to the commercial, residential or civic
              nature of surrounding uses; and

              v. To select consistent light poles, fixtures, lamp types, finishes and colors for all
              pedestrian and streetlights.

         b. Street Lighting Standards.

              i. Unless otherwise required by the city, all new streetlights shall comply with the
              following street lighting standards:

                  (A) Light sources shall be at least as efficient as LED and no greater than
                  4,000K in correlated color temperature (CCT).




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 34 of 166


                   (B) Light fixtures shall use a cut-off luminaire that is fully or partially shielded
                   with no light distributed above the horizontal plane of the luminaire or into
                   nearby residential structures.

                   (C) Light fixtures shall use a cut-off luminaire that is fully or partially shielded
                   with no light distributed above the horizontal plane of the luminaire or into
                   nearby residential structures.

                   (D) Streetlights shall be placed at intersections and at a frequency no less
                   than one streetlight per every one hundred fifty feet of roadway, rounded up
                   to the next whole number. Streetlight locations shall alternate sides of the
                   street to the greatest extent possible.

                   (E) Poles and fixtures shall be black, dark brown, or another neutral color
                   approved by the city.

              ii. The community development director may exempt a street from these
              requirements if implementing a thematic design which incorporates lighting and
              fulfills the intent.

D. Main Street.

    1. Intent.

         a. This special street type maintains the historic configuration of Main Street. This
         configuration includes the narrow right-of-way, lower traffic speed, wide pedestrian
         realm, on-street parking, and streetlights.

         b. This street type also includes elements that were not part of the original historic
         Main Street streetscape. Some of these elements are currently installed along portions
         of the street and include street trees, street furnishings, and ornamental plantings.
         These elements create a more pedestrian-oriented street and help set Main Street
         apart as a special street within the neighborhood and city.

    2. General Requirements.

         a. Main Street shall be newly constructed or reconstructed, in whole or in part,
         according to the standards in Table 4.02 and Figures 4.02 and 4.03. Measurements
         shown in these standards may need to be adjusted to actual dimensions on the


        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                  Page 35 of 166


         ground. The installation of new streetscape elements shall emulate and provide
         continuity with the streetscape elements already installed on the southern blocks of
         Main Street.

    3. Applicability.

         a. This street type only applies to the section of Main Street from Center Street to 7th
         Avenue as indicated on the street type map, Figure 4.01. As Main Street is currently
         fully constructed, these requirements shall be implemented at any future street
         reconstruction.


                                  Table 4.02. Main Street Requirements


       Vehicular Realm



       Typical Right-of-Way                                          68'



       Travel Lanes                                                  2 lanes, 10.5' wide, striped



       Center Lane                    Median                         None



                                      Left Turn                      None



       On-Street Parking                                             8' wide lane, striped on both
                                                                     sides of the street



       Bicycle Lane                                                  Sharrow-marked shared bike
                                                                     lane (13' min. width)



       Truck Loading Space                                           Required – size and
                                                                     location(s) to be determined
                                                                     by community development
                                                                     director and/or streetscape
                                                                     plan




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                    Page 36 of 166



       Bulb-Outs                                                     Required at all intersections
                                                                     and mid-block crossings



       Pedestrian Realm



       Sidewalk                                                      9' sidewalk on both sides of
                                                                     the street




                                      Width                          4' park strip on both sides of
                                                                     the street



                                      Street Trees                   Evenly spaced at 30' on
                                                                     center



                                      Streetlights                   Evenly spaced to achieve
                                                                     desired light coverage and
                                                                     per fixture manufacturer’s
                                                                     guidelines; streetlight spacing
                                                                     should be coordinated with
                                                                     street trees where possible


       Park Strip
                                      Landscape Zone                 Required: at-grade planters,
                                                                     street trees located in
                                                                     planters, water-efficient low-
                                                                     maintenance ornamental
                                                                     plants, streetlights, no lawn



                                                                     As Needed: street signage,
                                                                     utilities, public art, bollards



                                      Furnishings Zone               Required: trees in tree wells
                                                                     with grates, seating, bike
                                                                     rack, garbage can, lighting



                                                                     As Needed: street signage,




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                    Page 37 of 166



                                                                     utilities, public art, bollards



                                      Zone Spacing                   The Main Street park strips
                                                                     are predominantly
                                                                     furnishings zones with
                                                                     landscape zones limited to all
                                                                     bump-outs. The
                                                                     frequency/spacing of
                                                                     furnishings, trees, and
                                                                     streetlights are to be defined
                                                                     in a streetscape plan.



                                 Figure 4.02. Main Street Typical Section




                                    Figure 4.03. Main Street Rendering




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 38 of 166




E. Major Commercial Street.

    1. Intent.

         a. This is the highest order street type and accommodates the larger flows of
         pedestrians, cyclists, and vehicles along the neighborhood’s most major streets. These
         are the streets that connect the Main Street neighborhood to the surrounding areas.

    2. General Requirements.

         a. Major commercial streets shall be newly constructed or reconstructed, in whole or
         in part, according to the standards in Table 4.03 and Figures 4.04 and 4.05.
         Measurements shown in these standards may need to be adjusted to actual
         dimensions on the ground. If right-of-way widths vary from the typical value, the
         pedestrian realm should be adjusted to absorb the surplus or deficit width.

    3. Applicability.

         a. This street type applies only to the sections of Center Street and Holden Street/700
         West as indicated in the street type map in Figure 4.01. These requirements shall be
         implemented with any future street redevelopment or reconstruction and, where
         incomplete sections exist, with the development projects on adjacent parcels.

        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                  Page 39 of 166


         b. Existing major commercial streets may have different right-of-way widths. This
         typical street section may need to be adjusted. Adjustments priorities are:

              i. Remove one parking lane.

              ii. Reduce sidewalk/buffer area to nine feet minimum.


                              Table 4.03. Major Commercial Street Requirements


       Vehicular Realm



       Typical Right-of-Way                                          ~100'



       Travel Lanes                                                  4 lanes, 10.5' wide, striped



       Center Lane                    Median                         11' wide raised planter with
                                                                     trees



                                      Left Turn                      11' wide, striped



       On-Street Parking                                             8' wide lane, striped on both
                                                                     sides of the street



       Bicycle Lane                                                  5' unprotected lane on both
                                                                     sides of street



       Truck Loading Space                                           Required – size and
                                                                     location(s) to be determined
                                                                     by community development
                                                                     director and/or streetscape
                                                                     plan



       Bulb-Outs                                                     Required at all intersections
                                                                     and mid-block crossings




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                    Page 40 of 166



       Pedestrian Realm



       Sidewalk                                                      7' sidewalk on both sides of
                                                                     the street



                                      Width                          3.5' park strip on both sides
                                                                     of the street



                                      Street Trees                   Evenly spaced at 30' on
                                                                     center



                                      Streetlights                   Evenly spaced to achieve
                                                                     desired light coverage and
                                                                     per fixture manufacturer’s
                                                                     guidelines; streetlight spacing
                                                                     should be coordinated with
                                                                     street trees where possible



                                      Landscape Zone                 Required: at-grade planters,
                                                                     street trees located in
       Park Strip                                                    planters, water-efficient low-
                                                                     maintenance ornamental
                                                                     plants, streetlights, no lawn



                                                                     As Needed: street signage,
                                                                     utilities, public art, bollards



                                      Furnishings Zone               Required: trees in tree wells
                                                                     with grates, seating, bike
                                                                     rack, garbage can, lighting



                                                                     As Needed: street signage,
                                                                     utilities, public art, bollards



                                      Zone Spacing                   Major commercial street park
                                                                     strips are a mix of landscape




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                   Page 41 of 166



                                                                     and furnishings zones. The
                                                                     configuration of zones and
                                                                     frequency/spacing of
                                                                     furnishings, trees, and
                                                                     streetlights are to be defined
                                                                     in a streetscape plan.



                            Figure 4.04. Major Commercial Street Typical Section




                               Figure 4.05. Major Commercial Street Rendering




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 42 of 166




F. Minor Commercial Street.

    1. Intent.

         a. Minor commercial streets are the intermediate order street type that provide the
         interstitial connections between the higher order and lower order street types. They
         provide most of the neighborhood’s internal connections.

    2. General Requirements.

         a. Minor commercial streets shall be newly constructed or reconstructed, in whole or
         in part, according to the standards in Table 4.04 and Figures 4.06 and 4.07.
         Measurements shown in these standards may need to be adjusted to actual
         dimensions on the ground.

    3. Applicability.

         a. This street type applies only to the minor commercial streets as indicated in the
         street type map, Figure 4.01. These requirements shall be implemented with any




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                   Page 43 of 166


         future street redevelopment or reconstruction and, where incomplete sections exist,
         with the development projects on adjacent parcels.

         b. Existing minor commercial streets may have different right-of-way widths. This
         typical street section may need to be adjusted. Adjustments priorities are:

              i. Remove one parking lane (on either side) with extra space added to the
              buffer/sidewalk width.

              ii. Reduce buffer width. Buffers shall be a minimum width of three feet. Narrower
              buffer areas become part of the sidewalk width.

              iii. Reduce sidewalk width. Minimum sidewalk width is four feet.


                               Table 4.04. Minor Commercial Street Requirements


        Vehicular Realm



        Typical Right-of-Way                                        ~50'



        Travel Lanes                                                2 lanes, 10.5' wide, striped



        Center Lane                    Median                       None



                                       Left Turn                    None



        On-Street Parking                                           None (but can be added if
                                                                    right-of-way is widened)



        Bicycle Lane                                                5' unprotected lane on one
                                                                    side of street



        Truck Loading Space                                         Required – size and
                                                                    location(s) to be determined
                                                                    by community development
                                                                    director and/or streetscape




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                   Page 44 of 166



                                                                    plan



        Bulb-Outs                                                   Required at all intersections
                                                                    and mid-block crossings



        Pedestrian Realm



        Sidewalk                                                    6' sidewalk on both sides of
                                                                    the street



                                      Width                         5' park strip on both sides of
                                                                    the street



                                      Street Trees                  Evenly spaced at 30' on
                                                                    center



                                      Streetlights                  Evenly spaced to achieve
                                                                    desired light coverage and
                                                                    per fixture manufacturer’s
                                                                    guidelines; streetlight
                                                                    spacing should be
                                                                    coordinated with street trees
        Park Strip                                                  where possible



                                      Landscape Zone                Required: at-grade planters,
                                                                    street trees located in
                                                                    planters, water efficient low-
                                                                    maintenance ornamental
                                                                    plants, streetlights, no lawn



                                                                    As Needed: street signage,
                                                                    utilities, public art, bollards



                                      Furnishings Zone              Required: trees in tree wells
                                                                    with grates, seating, bike




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                   Page 45 of 166



                                                                    rack, garbage can, lighting



                                                                    As Needed: street signage,
                                                                    utilities, public art, bollards



                                      Zone Spacing                  Minor commercial street
                                                                    park strips are primarily
                                                                    landscape zones. The
                                                                    configuration of zones and
                                                                    frequency/spacing of
                                                                    furnishings, trees, and
                                                                    streetlights are to be defined
                                                                    in a streetscape plan.



                            Figure 4.06. Minor Commercial Street Typical Section




                               Figure 4.07. Minor Commercial Street Rendering




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                Page 46 of 166




(Ord. 2024-28 § 1 (Att. A); Ord. 2020-04 § 1 (Att. A (part)))




17-7-11.5           Frontages.

A. General Requirements.

     1. Intent.

          a. The frontage requirements outlined in this section define the interface between the
          public and private realms. This interface occurs at the line where each land parcel
          abuts a public right-of-way, referred to as the frontage, and is a continuous feature
          along both sides of each street. Building facades are a major component of this
          public/private interface, so building type is constrained by frontage type.

     2. Frontage Types.

          a. Three different frontage types are defined and applied to specific streets, as shown
          in the frontage map, Figure 5.01. Multiple types are used to create a town center
          neighborhood with a variety of street/frontage combinations. These combinations
          reinforce the street hierarchy based on each street’s connectivity, function, capacity,
          and its role in creating a walkable, vibrant town center.


         The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 47 of 166


         b. The three frontage types are: primary, secondary, and tertiary. Primary frontages
         are applied to the major roads, including Main Street and the major through roads.
         Secondary frontages are applied to the roads that directly connect to the major roads.
         Tertiary frontages are applied to the most minor streets.

         c. The hierarchy of frontage types, in order of priority, is:

              i. Primary frontage;

              ii. Secondary frontage;

              iii. Tertiary frontage.

         d. If multiple frontages exist on a single parcel, the frontage requirements shall be
         based on the highest priority frontage affecting the lot.

    3. Frontage Specifications.

         a. Minimum frontage coverage may be reduced to provide for a driveway access
         when no other frontage is available to be used for access. When frontage coverage is
         reduced using this provision, the provided driveway shall be limited to the minimum
         width required for access, as determined by city staff using the minimum width as a
         standard, and the remaining frontage shall be covered by a building or BTZ pedestrian
         space, as otherwise allowed within this title.


                                         Figure 5.01. Frontage Map




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 48 of 166




                                   Figure 5.02. Lot Configuration Types




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 49 of 166




B. Primary Frontage.

    1. Intent.

         a. Primary frontages accommodate more intense development and maintain the
         town center type of spatial relationships between buildings and streets. Buildings are
         located very close to the right-of-way, creating a consistent street wall and prioritizing
         walkability.

         b. The values of the various parameters provide less flexibility than the other frontage
         types. Primary frontages are applied only to the Main Street and major commercial
         street types.

    2. Design Standards.

         a. Regulations for primary frontages are defined in Table 5.01 and Figures 5.03 and
         5.04.


                               Table 5.01. Primary Frontage Requirements




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 50 of 166



                                              Building Placement



                                                  BUILD-TO-ZONE (BTZ)



             1.                 Primary Street                          0' min – 10' max



             2.                Side/Rear Street                         0' min – 10' max



                                                       SETBACK



             3.                     Side                                    0' min



             4.                     Rear                                    5' min



                                                 FRONTAGE COVERAGE



             5.             Primary Street Facade                          80% min



             6.               Side Street Facade                           50% min



             7.               Rear Street Facade                            No min



             8.                Corner Buildings                                                             Formatted: Spanish (Spain)

                            Primary Street Facade                           30' min

                              Side Street Facade                            30' min

                              Rear Street Facade                            No min



             9.                Primary Facade                           20% max width

                                  Courtyard



                                               Encroachments




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 51 of 166



             10.                Primary Street

                                Ground Floor                               12' max

                                Upper Floor(s)                              6' max



             11.               Side/Rear Street

                                Ground Floor                                8' max

                                Upper Floor(s)                              6' max



                                      Parking (See Section 17-7-11.9)



                                                     SETBACK



             12.                Primary Street                              30' min



             13.               Side/Rear Street                             5' min



             14.                    Side                                    5' min



             15.                    Rear                                    5' min



                                   PARKING DRIVEWAY (surface lot and structure)



                               Minimum Width                                  15'



             16.               Maximum Width

                                  Two-Way                                     25'

                                  One-Way                                     16'



             17.                 Corner Lot
                                  Location                              Side/rear street




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                         Page 52 of 166



             18.            Distance from Corner                              35' min



             19.              Corner Interior Lot                  Shared driveway, rear street,
                                   Location                        primary street as a last resort



                                          BICYCLE AND OFFSITE PARKING



             20.                 Bicycle parking to be provided in a secure location


C. Secondary Frontage.

    1. Intent.

         a. Secondary frontages accommodate medium intensity development. The purpose is to
         maintain town center style spatial relationships along streets and also to transition
         those relationships between the most intense and least intense development areas.

         b. The values of the frontage parameters provide more flexibility than the primary
         frontage, allowing for increased spatial diversity and development styles. Secondary
         frontages are applied primarily to the minor commercial street type.

    2. Design Standards.

         a. Regulations for secondary frontages are defined in Table 5.02 and Figures 5.03 and
         5.04.


                             Table 5.02. Secondary Frontage Requirements


                                              Building Placement



                                                  BUILD-TO-ZONE (BTZ)



             1.                 Primary Street                            0' min – 15' max



             2.                Side/Rear Street                           0' min – 15' max




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 53 of 166



                                                      SETBACK



             3.                     Side                           0' min – 10' max



             4.                     Rear                           5' min – 10' max



                                                 FRONTAGE COVERAGE



             5.             Primary Street Facade                      70% min



             6.               Side Street Facade                       50% min



             7.               Rear Street Facade                        No min



             8.                Corner Buildings                                                             Formatted: Spanish (Spain)

                            Primary Street Facade                       30' min

                              Side Street Facade                        30' min

                              Rear Street Facade                        No min



             9.                Primary Facade                        15% max width

                                  Courtyard



                                               Encroachments



             10.                Primary Street

                                Ground Floor                            8' max

                                Upper Floor(s)                          6' max



             11.               Side/Rear Street

                                Ground Floor                            6' max




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                      Page 54 of 166



                                Upper Floor(s)                               4' max



                                       Parking (See Section 17-7-11.9)



                                                      SETBACK



             12.                Primary Street                               30' min



             13.               Side/Rear Street                              5' min



             14.                     Side                                    5' min



             15.                     Rear                                    5' min



                                   PARKING DRIVEWAY (surface lot and structure)



             16.               Maximum Width

                                  Two-Way                                      25'

                                  One-Way                                      16'



             17.                  Corner Lot
                                   Location                              Side/rear street



             18.            Distance from Corner                             35' min



             19.              Corner Interior Lot               Shared driveway, rear street,
                                   Location                     primary street as a last resort



                                            BICYCLE AND OFFSITE PARKING



             20.                 Bicycle parking to be provided in a secure location


D. Tertiary Frontage.



        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 55 of 166


    1. Intent.

         a. Tertiary frontages accommodate lower intensity development. The purpose is to
         provide a spatial transition between the forms within the FBC area and the existing
         development surrounding the area.

         b. The values of the frontage parameters allow for more flexibility than the other two
         frontage types. Tertiary frontages are applied primarily to the neighborhood street
         type.

    2. Design Standards.

         a. Regulations for tertiary frontages are defined in Table 5.03 and Figures 5.03 and
         5.04.


                               Table 5.03. Tertiary Frontage Requirements


                                            Building Placement



                                                  BUILD-TO-ZONE (BTZ)



             1.                 Primary Street                          0' min – 20' max



             2.                Side/Rear Street                         0' min – 20' max



                                                       SETBACK



             3.                     Side                                5' min – 10' max



             4.                     Rear                            15' min – 25' max



                                                 FRONTAGE COVERAGE



             5.             Primary Street Facade                          50% min




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 56 of 166



             6.               Side Street Facade                          40% min



             7.               Rear Street Facade                           No min



             8.                Corner Buildings                                                             Formatted: Spanish (Spain)

                            Primary Street Facade                          30' min

                              Side Street Facade                           30' min

                              Rear Street Facade                           No min



             9.                Primary Facade                           10% max width

                                  Courtyard



                                               Encroachments



             10.                Primary Street

                                Ground Floor                               4' max

                                Upper Floor(s)                             4' max



             11.               Side/Rear Street

                                Ground Floor                               4' max

                                Upper Floor(s)                             4' max



                                      Parking (See Section 17-7-11.9)



                                                     SETBACK



             12.                Primary Street                             30' min



             13.               Side/Rear Street                            5' min




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                    Page 57 of 166



             14.                     Side                                 5' min



             15.                     Rear                                 5' min



                                   PARKING DRIVEWAY (surface lot and structure)



             16.               Maximum Width

                                  Two-Way                                   25'

                                  One-Way                                   16'



             17.                  Corner Lot
                                   Location                          Side/rear street



             18.            Distance from Corner                          35' min



             19.              Corner Interior Lot              Shared driveway, rear street,
                                   Location                   primary street as a last resort



                                            BICYCLE AND OFFSITE PARKING



             20.                 Bicycle parking to be provided in a secure location



                           Figure 5.03. Building Placement Example Diagram




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                Page 58 of 166


                             Figure 5.04. Parking Area Placement Example Diagram




(Ord. 2024-28 § 1 (Att. A); Ord. 2020-04 § 1 (Att. A (part)))




17-7-11.6           Building types.

A. General Requirements.

     1. Buildings are one of the most prominent components of the built environment and
     collectively define much of the character of a streetscape or neighborhood. Buildings are
     collections of architectural elements that can be described in terms of both form and style.
     These building form requirements define the physical forms of the buildings without
     defining their style. These form requirements are designed to ensure that future building
     projects meet the goals of the Main Street town center.

     2. All building types must meet the following requirements:

          a. Form District. Each building type shall be built only in the form district(s) where they
          are explicitly allowed, as shown in the individual building type tables and summarized
          in Table 6.01.


                                      Table 6.01. Building Type by Form District


                                        Building Type           Form District




         The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 59 of 166



                                                     MS         TCC



                                     General          P          P



                                   Limited Bay        N          P



                                      Row             P          P



                                      Civic           P          P


         b. Use. Each building type can accommodate a variety of uses, as outlined in Section
         17-7-11.3. Uses may be limited to a specific story of the building type. See individual
         building type tables in this section.

         c. Ground Floor Residential and Lodging Use Restrictions.

              i. Residential and lodging units are permitted on the ground floor; provided,
              however, that no such units shall be located within the occupied space required
              along the primary street-facing facade.

              ii. Notwithstanding any other requirement in this title:

                  (A) Accessory residential and lodging uses, such as lobbies, meeting rooms,
                  offices, etc., are permitted both within the required occupied space along the
                  primary street-facing facade; and

                  (B) Residential units may occupy the entirety of a row building in the town
                  center core form district.

              iii. Grade Separation. Ground floor residential units shall be vertically separated by
              no more than four feet above or below the sidewalk level.

         d. Occupied Space Requirement. The occupied space requirement only applies to the
         required frontage area.

         e. No Other Building Types. All constructed buildings must meet the requirements of
         one of the building types permitted within the given form district.



        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 60 of 166


         f. Permanent Structures. All buildings constructed shall be permanent construction
         without a chassis, hitch, wheels, or other features that make the structure mobile.

         g. Accessory structures are structures located on the same lot as the principal
         structure(s) with uses that are incidental to the use of the principal structure(s).
         Examples include a garage, parking structure, storage, utility, maintenance sheds, etc.

              i. Structures attached to the principal structure are considered part of the
              principal structure and are not accessory structures.

              ii. Detached accessory structures are permitted according to each building type
              (see individual building type tables in this section) and shall comply with all
              setbacks and the following:

                  (A) Detached accessory structures are not permitted in the front yard or any
                  other space between the principal structure and a right-of-way.

                  (B) Detached accessory structures shall be located in the rear yard, behind
                  the principal structure.

                  (C) Detached accessory structures shall not exceed the height of the principal
                  structure.

              iii. Accessory structures shall be built in a manner compatible with the principal
              building and shall use the same or similar quality materials as the principal
              building.

         h. Building Length. Maximum and minimum building lengths, as measured along the
         right-of-way property lines, are determined by frontage coverage and setback
         distances. See Section 17-7-11.5.

         i. Theme and Unity. The architectural design within a single development that includes
         multiple structures shall be organized around a consistent architectural theme in
         terms of the character, materials, texture, color, and scale of buildings. Restaurants,
         retail chains, and other franchise-style structures shall adjust their standard
         architectural theme to be consistent with the development’s overall architectural
         character.




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 61 of 166


         j. Active Streetscape. Variation in architecture is encouraged to create a more appealing
         streetscape. Variety can be achieved through porches, terraces, stoops, awnings,
         galleries, arcades, balconies, and canopies.

         k. Primary entrances for all building types shall be located along the primary street
         facade.

    3. Building Types. This FBC describes four building types:

         a. General;

         b. Limited bay;

         c. Row;

         d. Civic.

B. General Building.

    1. Intent.

         a. The general building type accommodates a wide variety of uses. It is intended to be
         built close to the front and corner property lines allowing easy access to passing
         pedestrians and transit riders.

         b. Parking may be provided in the rear of the lot, internal to the building, or in an
         attached parking structure. Vehicular access should be located on the rear or side of
         the lot, only on the front if the rear or side is unavailable. On lots with more than one
         street frontage, vehicular access must be located on the side or rear street.

    2. Regulations.

         a. The general building is permitted in all form districts.

         b. Regulations for the general building type are defined in Table 6.02 and Figures
         6.01a, 6.01b, and 6.01c.


                               Table 6.02. General Building Requirements




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                         Page 62 of 166



                         Form District                         MS                             TCC



     Frontage



     1.       Frontage Type                       Primary, Secondary             Primary, Secondary,
                                                                                 Tertiary



     Use



     2.       Ground Floor                        Residential*, Lodging*,        Residential*, Lodging*,
                                                  Civic, Retail, Service         Civic, Retail, Service



     3.       Upper Floor(s)                      Residential, Lodging, Civic,   Residential, Lodging, Civic,
                                                  Office and Industrial          Office and Industrial



     4.       Parking Within Building             Permitted                      Permitted



     5.       Required Occupied Space             30' min.                       30' min.



     Siting



     6.       Multiple Principal Buildings        Permitted                      Permitted



     7.       Occupation of Corner                Required                       Required



     8.       Accessory Structure                 Not Permitted                  Not Permitted



     9.       Parking/Loading Location            Rear Yard                      Rear Yard



     10.      Vehicular Access Type               Driveway, Portal               Driveway, Portal



     11.      Loading/Service Entrance Location   Rear Yard                      Rear Yard




           The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                     Page 63 of 166



                       Form District                            MS                       TCC



     Height



     12.    Principal Building Minimum              2 stories                3 stories



     13.    Principal Building Maximum              3 stories                6 stories



     14.    Accessory Building Maximum              Not Permitted            Not Permitted



     15.    Ground Floor Height (floor to           12' min.                 12' min.
            ceiling)



     16.    Upper Floor Height (floor to ceiling)   8' min.                  8' min.



     Street-Facing Facade(s)



     17.    Entrance Types                          Storefront, Arcade       Storefront, Arcade, Stoop



     18.    Entrance Spacing Minimum                1/each minor division    1/each minor division



     19.    Ground Floor Transparency               50% min.                 50% min.



     20.    Upper Floor Transparency                20% min.                 20% min.



     21.    Blank Wall Limitation                   Required                 Required



     22.    Major Division Width                    60' min./100' max.       80' min./140' max.



     23.    Minor Division Width                    30' min./60' max.        40' min./80' max.



     24.    Minor Division Features                 5 min.                   5 min.




           The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                   Page 64 of 166



                        Form District                        MS                          TCC



     25.    Facade Bay Fenestration Features     5 min.                      4 min.



     26.    Street-Facing Facade Courtyard       15' min.                    20' min.
            Width



     Projections



     27.    Primary Street                       Awning, Balcony, Canopy,    Awning, Balcony, Canopy,
                                                 Roof Overhang               Roof Overhang



     28.    Side/Rear Street                     Awning, Balcony, Roof       Awning, Balcony, Canopy,
                                                 Overhang                    Roof Overhang



     Roof Type



     29.    Permitted Roof Type                  Parapet, Pitched, Flat      Parapet, Pitched, Flat



     30.    Tower                                Only on corner lots         Only on corner lots


            * See Section 17-7-11.6(A)(2)(c)



                                  Figure 6.01a. General Building Siting Diagram




           The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 65 of 166




                         Figure 6.01b. General Building Street Facade Diagram




                        Figure 6.01c. General Building Height and Use Diagram




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 66 of 166




C. Limited Bay Building.

    1. Intent.

         a. The limited bay building type permits a maximum of one vehicle bay per each
         facade bay along the primary street. A wide range of uses can be accommodated
         within this building type, including craftsman industrial uses. This building type is still
         intended to be built close to the front and corner property lines allowing easy access to
         passing pedestrians and transit riders, continuing the street wall.

         b. Parking may be provided in the rear of the lot or internal to the building.

    2. Regulations.

         a. Limited bay buildings are permitted in the TCC form district and are not permitted
         in the MS form district.

         b. Regulations for the limited bay building type are defined in Table 6.03 and Figures
         6.02a, 6.02b, and 6.02c.


                             Table 6.03. Limited Bay Building Requirements


                    Form District                        MS                          TCC



     Frontage




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                     Page 67 of 166



                         Form District                       MS                           TCC



     1.       Frontage Type                       Not Permitted              Secondary, Tertiary



     Use



     2.       Ground Floor                                                   Residential*, Lodging*,
                                                                             Civic, Retail, Service



     3.       Upper Floor(s)                                                 Residential, Lodging, Civic

                                                  Not Permitted              Retail, Service



     4.       Parking Within Building                                        Permitted



     5.       Required Occupied Space                                        30' min.



     Siting



     6.       Multiple Principal Buildings                                   Not Permitted



     7.       Occupation of Corner                                           Required



     8.       Accessory Structure                                            Not Permitted

                                                  Not Permitted
     9.       Parking/Loading Location                                       Rear Yard



     10.      Vehicular Access Type                                          Driveway, Portal, Vehicle
                                                                             Bay



     11.      Loading/Service Entrance Location                              Rear Yard, Bay



     Height




           The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                     Page 68 of 166



                       Form District                           MS                        TCC



     12.    Principal Building Minimum                                       3 stories



     13.    Principal Building Maximum                                       6 stories



     14.    Accessory Building Maximum                                       Not Permitted
                                                    Not Permitted


     15.    Ground Floor Height (floor to                                    12' min.
            ceiling)



     16.    Upper Floor Height (floor to ceiling)                            8' min.



     Street-Facing Facade(s)



     17.    Entrance Types                                                   Storefront, Arcade, Stoop



     18.    Entrance Spacing Minimum                                         1/each minor division



     19.    Ground Floor Transparency                                        50% min.



     20.    Upper Floor Transparency                                         20% min.



     21.    Blank Wall Limitation                   Not Permitted            Required



     22.    Major Division Width                                             70' min./120' max.



     23.    Minor Division Width                                             35' min./70' max.



     24.    Minor Division Features                                          4 min.



     25.    Facade Bay Fenestration Features                                 4 min.




           The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                   Page 69 of 166



                        Form District                       MS                           TCC



     26.    Street-Facing Facade Courtyard                                   15' min.
            Width



     Projections



     27.    Primary Street                                                   Awning, Balcony, Canopy,
                                                                             Roof Overhang

                                                 Not Permitted

     28.    Side/Rear Street                                                 Awning, Balcony, Canopy,
                                                                             Roof Overhang



     Roof Type



     29.    Permitted Roof Type                                              Parapet, Pitched, Flat

                                                 Not Permitted

     30.    Tower                                                            Only on corner lots


            * See Section 17-7-11.6(A)(2)(c)



                                Figure 6.02a. Limited Bay Building Siting Diagram




           The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 70 of 166


                       Figure 6.02b. Limited Bay Building Street Facade Diagram




                      Figure 6.02c. Limited Bay Building Height and Use Diagram




D. Row Building.

    1. Intent.

         a. The row building is a building typically comprised of multiple vertical units, each
         with its own entrance to the street. This building type may be organized as townhouses
         or rowhouses, or it could also incorporate live/work units where such uses are
         permitted.

         b. Parking is required to be located in the rear yard and may be either an attached or
         detached garage. All garages shall be accessed from a single shared driveway. For an
         attached garage, a minimum level of occupied space is required on the front facade to
         ensure that the street facade is active.

        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                         Page 71 of 166


    2. Regulations.

            a. Row buildings are permitted in all form districts.

            b. Regulations for the row building type are defined in Table 6.04 and Figures 6.03a,
            6.03b, and 6.03c.


                                         Table 6.04. Row Building Requirements


                         Form District                         MS                              TCC



     Frontage



     1.       Frontage Type                       Primary, Secondary              Primary, Secondary,
                                                                                  Tertiary



     Use



     2.       Ground Floor                        Residential*, Lodging*,         Residential*, Lodging*,
                                                  Retail, Service                 Retail, Service, Office and
                                                                                  Industrial



     3.       Upper Floor(s)                      Residential, Lodging, Retail,   Residential, Lodging, Retail,
                                                  Service, Office and             Service, Office and
                                                  Industrial                      Industrial



     4.       Parking Within Building             Permitted                       Permitted



     5.       Required Occupied Space             30' min.                        30' min.



     Siting



     6.       Multiple Principal Buildings        Permitted                       Permitted



     7.       Occupation of Corner                Required                        Required




           The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                       Page 72 of 166



                       Form District                            MS                          TCC



     8.     Accessory Structure                     Permitted                   Permitted



     9.     Parking/Loading Location                Rear Yard                   Rear Yard



     10.    Vehicular Access Type                   Driveway, Portal            Driveway, Portal



     11.    Loading/Service Entrance Location       Rear Yard                   Rear Yard



     Height



     12.    Principal Building Minimum              2 stories                   3 stories



     13.    Principal Building Maximum              3 stories                   6 stories



     14.    Accessory Building Maximum              Not Permitted               Not Permitted



     15.    Ground Floor Height (floor to           12' min.                    12' min.
            ceiling)



     16.    Upper Floor Height (floor to ceiling)   8' min.                     8' min.



     Street-Facing Facade(s)



     17.    Entrance Types                          Storefront, Arcade, Stoop   Storefront, Arcade, Stoop



     18.    Entrance Spacing Minimum                1/each minor division       1/each minor division



     19.    Ground Floor Transparency               50% min.                    50% min.



     20.    Upper Floor Transparency                20% min.                    20% min.




           The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                     Page 73 of 166



                        Form District                        MS                          TCC



     21.    Blank Wall Limitation                Required                    Required



     22.    Major Division Width                 Not Required                Not Required



     23.    Minor Division Width                 20' min./40' max.           30' min./45' max.



     24.    Minor Division Features              4 min.                      4 min.



     25.    Facade Bay Fenestration Features     4 min.                      3 min.



     26.    Street-Facing Facade Courtyard       Not Permitted               20' min.
            Width



     Projections



     27.    Primary Street                       Awning, Balcony, Roof       Awning, Balcony, Roof
                                                 Overhang                    Overhang



     28.    Side/Rear Street                     Awning                      Awning



     Roof Type



     29.    Permitted Roof Type                  Parapet, Pitched, Flat      Parapet, Pitched, Flat



     30.    Tower                                Not Permitted               Not Permitted


            * See Section 17-7-11.6(A)(2)(c)



                                    Figure 6.03a. Row Building Siting Diagrams




           The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 74 of 166




                           Figure 6.03b. Row Building Street Facade Diagram




                           Figure 6.03c. Row Building Height and Use Diagram




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                   Page 75 of 166


E. Civic Building.

    1. Intent.

            a. The civic building is the most flexible building type, intended only for civic and
            institutional types of uses. These buildings are distinctive within the urban fabric that is
            created by the other building types and should be designed as iconic structures.

            b. Parking is limited to the rear in most cases.

    2. Regulations.

            a. Civic buildings are permitted in the MS and TCC zones districts.

            b. Regulations for the civic building type are defined in Table 6.05 and Figures 6.04a,
            6.04b, and 6.04c.


                                         Table 6.05. Civic Building Requirements


                         Form District                         MS                        TCC



     Frontage



     1.       Frontage Type                        Primary                   Primary



     Use



     2.       Ground Floor                         Civic                     Civic



     3.       Upper Floor(s)                       Civic                     Civic



     4.       Parking Within Building              Permitted                 Permitted



     5.       Required Occupied Space              30' min.                  30' min.



     Siting




           The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                    Page 76 of 166



                       Form District                            MS                       TCC



     6.     Multiple Principal Buildings            Not Permitted            Permitted



     7.     Occupation of Corner                    Required                 Required



     8.     Accessory Structure                     Not Permitted            Not Permitted



     9.     Parking/Loading Location                Rear Yard                Rear Yard



     10.    Vehicular Access Type                   Driveway, Portal         Driveway, Portal



     11.    Loading/Service Entrance Location       Rear Yard                Rear Yard



     Height



     12.    Principal Building Minimum              2 stories                3 stories



     13.    Principal Building Maximum              3 stories                6 stories



     14.    Accessory Building Maximum              Not Permitted            Not Permitted



     15.    Ground Floor Height (floor to           12' min.                 12' min.
            ceiling)



     16.    Upper Floor Height (floor to ceiling)   10' min.                 10' min.



     Street-Facing Facade(s)



     17.    Entrance Types                          Storefront, Arcade       Storefront, Arcade



     18.    Entrance Spacing Minimum                Not Required             Not Required




           The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                   Page 77 of 166



                       Form District                         MS                          TCC



     19.    Ground Floor Transparency            10% min.                    10% min.



     20.    Upper Floor Transparency             10% min.                    10% min.



     21.    Blank Wall Limitation                Not Required                Not Required



     22.    Major Division Width                 Not Required                Not Required



     23.    Minor Division Width                 Not Required                Not Required



     24.    Minor Division Features              Not Required                Not Required



     25.    Facade Bay Fenestration Features     Not Required                Not Required



     26.    Street-Facing Facade Courtyard       15' min.                    20' min.
            Width



     Projections



     27.    Primary Street                       Canopy, Roof Overhang       Canopy, Roof Overhang



     28.    Side/Rear Street                     Roof Overhang               Roof Overhang



     Roof Type



     29.    Permitted Roof Type                  Parapet, Pitched, Flat      Parapet, Pitched, Flat



     30.    Tower                                Permitted                   Permitted



                                    Figure 6.04a. Civic Building Siting Diagrams




           The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 78 of 166




                           Figure 6.04b. Civic Building Street Facade Diagram




                          Figure 6.04c. Civic Building Height and Use Diagram




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 79 of 166




F. Entrance Types.

    1. General Provisions.

         a. Intent. To guide the design of the ground story of all buildings to relate
         appropriately to pedestrians on the street. Treatment of other portions of the building
         facades is detailed in each building type table.

         b. Applicability. The entire ground story street-facing facade(s) of all buildings shall
         meet the requirements of at least one of the permitted entrance types, unless
         otherwise stated.

         c. Measuring Transparency. Refer to the individual building type tables for information
         on transparency.

         d. Visible Basements. Visible basements, permitted by entrance type, are optional. The
         visible basement shall be a maximum of one-half the height of the tallest story.

    2. Storefront Entrance. The storefront entrance type is a highly transparent ground story
    treatment designed to serve primarily as the display area and primary entrance for retail or
    service uses. See Figure 6.05.


                              Figure 6.05. Storefront Entrance Example



        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 80 of 166




         a. Transparency. Minimum transparency is required per building type.

         b. Horizontal facade division feature shall define the ground story facade from the
         upper story facades.

         c. Visible Basement. A visible basement is not permitted.

         d. Entrance. All entries shall be recessed from the front facade closest to the street.

              i. Recess shall be a minimum of three feet and a maximum of eight feet deep, as
              measured from the front facade.

              ii. The entrance shall not be recessed into the lot further than the maximum BTZ
              depth.

    3. Arcade Entrance. An arcade recesses the entrance back into the ground floor, creating a
    covered pedestrian area beneath the second story. See Figure 6.06.


                                Figure 6.06. Arcade Entrance Example




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 81 of 166


         a. Arcade. The arcade space is recessed into the building a minimum of eight feet and
         a maximum of fifteen feet from the front facade. The arcade space is permitted to be
         recessed into the lot beyond the maximum BTZ depth.

         b. Build-To Zone. For arcade entrances, the front facade is the implied plane created by
         the arcade columns. The location of this implied plane facade must be within the
         required BTZ.

         c. Transparency. Minimum facade transparency applies to the recessed entry facade
         and is required per building type.

         d. Horizontal facade division feature shall define the ground story facade from the
         upper story facades.

         e. Recessed Facade Entrance Type. The entrance type at the facade recessed into the
         arcade shall be a storefront entrance type with one modification: the door location
         shall be flush with the adjacent windows and not recessed.

         f. Column Spacing. Columns shall be spaced between ten and sixteen feet on center.

         g. Column Width. Columns shall be a minimum of one and one-half feet and a
         maximum two and one-half feet in width.

         h. Arcade Opening. The top of the opening shall be lower than the interior arcade
         ceiling (not flush with the ceiling) and may be arched or straight.

         i. Horizontal Facade Division. The ground story facade shall be divided from the upper
         story facades with a horizontal architectural expression.

         j. Visible Basement. A visible basement is not permitted.

    4. Stoop Entrance. A stoop is an unroofed, open, elevated platform. The doors on a stoop
    entrance are accessed from the stoop. See Figure 6.07.


                                 Figure 6.07. Stoop Entrance Example




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 82 of 166




         a. Transparency. Minimum transparency is required per building type.

         b. Horizontal facade division feature shall define the ground story facade from the
         upper story facades.

         c. Stoop Size. Stoops shall be a minimum of three feet deep and six feet wide.

         d. Elevation. Stoop elevation shall be located a maximum of two and one-half feet
         above the sidewalk without visible basement and a maximum of four and one-half feet
         above the sidewalk with a visible basement.

         e. Visible Basement. A visible basement is permitted and shall be separated from the
         ground story by an expression line.

              i. The facade of the visible basement must have a minimum transparency of
              fifteen percent.

              ii. A visible basement does not count as a building story.

         f. Entrance. All entries shall be located off a stoop.

    5. Porch Entrance. A porch is a raised, roofed platform that may or may not be enclosed on
    all sides. If enclosed, the space shall not be climate controlled. See Figure 6.08.


                                 Figure 6.08. Porch Entrance Example




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 83 of 166




         a. Transparency.

              i. Minimum transparency per building type is required.

              ii. If enclosed, a minimum of forty percent of the enclosed porch shall be
              comprised of highly transparent, low reflectance windows.

         b. Porch Size. The porch shall be a minimum of five feet deep and eight feet wide.

         c. Elevation. Porch elevation shall be located a maximum of two and one-half feet
         above the sidewalk without a visible basement and a maximum of four and one-half
         feet above the sidewalk with a visible basement.

         d. Visible Basement. A visible basement is permitted and shall be separated from the
         ground story by an expression line.

              i. The facade of the visible basement must have a minimum transparency of
              fifteen percent.

              ii. A visible basement does not count as a building story.

         e. Height. The porch structure shall not be tall enough to obstruct the windows on the
         second story.

         f. Porch Roof. The roof of the porch may be flat or pitched. The roof may include a
         balcony that is accessed from the second story.

         g. Entrance. All right-of-way-facing entries shall be located on a porch.

G. Roof Types.

    1. General Provisions. The following provisions apply to all roof types:

        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 84 of 166


         a. Intent. To guide the design of the caps of all buildings.

         b. Applicability. All buildings shall meet the requirements of one of the roof types
         permitted by building type.

         c. Measuring Height. See Figure 6.09 for information on measuring roof height.


                                  Figure 6.09. Height Measuring Diagram




         d. Other Roof Types. Other building caps not listed here as a specific roof type may be
         requested with the following requirements:

              i. The building is deemed as one having special significance to Midvale City or the
              overall Main Street neighborhood.

              ii. The shape of the roof type shall be significantly different from those defined in
              this section, i.e., dome, spire, vault.

         e. Solar Energy. Solar panels are permitted for all roof types.

         f. Appearance. Roofs shall provide an attractive appearance, considering that they may
         be viewed from above as a fifth facade. Equipment projections and access towers must
         be set back a minimum of ten feet from the edge of the roof.

    2. Parapet Roof. A parapet is a low wall projecting above a building’s roof along the
    perimeter of the building. It can be utilized with a flat or low-pitched roof and also serves to
    limit the view of roof-top mechanical systems from the street. See Figure 6.10.

         a. Parapet Height. Height is measured from the outermost roof membrane or
         structure to the top of the parapet.



        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 85 of 166


              i. Minimum height is two feet and maximum height is six feet.

              ii. The parapet shall be high enough to screen the roof and any roof
              appurtenances visible from the street.

         b. Horizontal Expression Lines. An expression line shall define the parapet from the
         upper stories of the building and shall also define the top of the cap.

         c. Occupied Space. Outdoor (unenclosed) roof deck/terrace occupiable space is
         permitted in this roof type. Such occupiable spaces must meet fire code egress
         standards. The parapet wall may act as the perimeter barrier if it meets safety
         standards, otherwise an additional barrier is required.

         d. Rooftop Enclosures. Rooftop enclosures are permitted in this roof type. Occupiable
         space may not exceed ten percent or four hundred square feet of the roof footprint,
         whichever is larger. Enclosures must maintain the applicable roof setback.


                                    Figure 6.10. Parapet Roof Example




    3. Pitched Roof. This roof type is sloped (pitched). Pitch is measured with the vertical rise
    divided by the horizontal span or run. See Figure 6.11.


                                  Figure 6.11. Pitched Roof Examples




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 86 of 166


         a. Pitch Measure. The roof may not be pitched less than 4:12 (rise/run) or more than
         12:12.

         b. Configurations. Hipped, gabled, and combination of hips and gables with or without
         dormers are permitted.

         c. Parallel Ridge Line. A gabled end or perpendicular ridge line shall occur at least every
         one hundred feet of roof length when the ridge line runs parallel to the front lot line.

         d. Transparency. The upper floor transparency and blank wall limitation requirements
         apply to gable ends when the space within the roof is occupiable. Gable ends are
         exempt from these transparency requirements if there is no occupiable space within
         the roof.

         e. Roof height, measured from the ridge line down to the top story, is a function of
         pitch measure.

         f. Occupied Space. Occupiable attic space, the void within the roof trusses, may be
         incorporated within this roof type and not count as one story.

    4. Flat Roof. This roof type has a flat roof with or without overhanging eaves. See Figure
    6.12.


                                    Figure 6.12. Flat Roof Example




         a. Configuration. Roofs with no visible slope are acceptable. Eaves are required on all
         street-facing facades.

         b. Eave Depth. Eave depth is measured from the building facade to the outermost
         element of the eave. Eaves shall have a minimum depth of eighteen inches.




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 87 of 166


         c. Eave Thickness. Eave thickness is measured at the outside edge of the eave, from the
         bottom of the eave to the top of the eave. Minimum eave height is eight inches.

         d. Interrupting vertical walls are facade walls below the eave that extend upwards
         through and above the top of the eave with no discernible cap.

              i. No more than one-half of the front facade can consist of an interrupting vertical
              wall.

              ii. Vertical walls shall extend no more than four feet above the top of the eave.

         e. Occupied Space. Occupied space shall not be incorporated within this roof type.

    5. Towers. A tower is a rectilinear or cylindrical vertical element, that must be used with
    other roof types; towers are only allowed on permitted building types and on corner lots.
    For lots with two corners, the tower is only permitted on the corner with the primary street.
    A stair tower used for emergency and roof access is exempt from this limit. See Figure 6.13.


                                      Figure 6.13. Tower Example




         a. Quantity. All building types, with the exception of the civic building, are limited to
         one tower per building.

         b. Tower Height. Maximum height, measured from the top of the lower parapet or
         eave to the top of the tower, is limited to one and one-half times the height of the
         upper floor of the building on which the tower is located. The tower is not included in
         the count for maximum number of stories.

         c. Tower Width. Maximum width along all facades is one-third the width of the front
         facade or thirty feet, whichever is shorter.


        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 88 of 166


         d. Horizontal Expression Lines. A horizontal expression line shall define the tower from
         the upper stories, except on single family or attached house residential building types.

         e. Occupied Space. Towers may be occupied by the same uses allowed in upper stories
         of the building type on which they are located. Occupied space within a tower shall not
         count towards any other rooftop occupied space allowance.

         f. Application. May be combined with all other roof types.

         g. Tower Cap. The tower may be capped by the parapet, pitched, or flat roof types.

H. Lighting Standards.

    1. Light Source. Light sources shall be at least as efficient as LED and no greater than
    4,000K in correlated color temperature (CCT).

    2. Light levels shall be designed such that light trespass measured at the property line
    does not exceed 0.01 foot-candles.

    3. Light fixtures shall use a cut-off luminaire that is fully or partially shielded with no light
    distributed above the horizontal plane of the luminaire or into nearby residential
    structures.

    4. In no case shall the total lumens emitted for a single site exceed one hundred thousand
    lumens per acre.

    5. Parking Lot Lighting. Parking lot lighting shall be designed and constructed to comply
    with the following standards:

         a. Pole Height/Design.

              i. Luminaire mounting height is measured from the parking lot or driveway
              surface and may range from ten feet to thirty feet, based on review of site plan,
              proposed land uses, surrounding land uses, parking area size, building mass,
              topography of site, and impacts on adjacent properties.

              ii. Poles and fixtures shall be black, dark brown, or another neutral color
              approved by the community development director.




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 89 of 166


              iii. All attempts shall be made to place the base of light poles within landscape
              areas.

              iv. Light poles in parking areas shall not exceed thirty feet in height. Poles
              exceeding twenty feet in height are appropriate only for parking areas exceeding
              two hundred stalls and not in close proximity to residential areas.

    6. Other Outdoor Lighting Standards.

         a. Wall-mounted lighting fixtures shall not be located above eighteen feet in height
         unless being used as building accent lighting. Fixture styles and finishes shall
         complement the building exterior.

         b. Lighting located along pedestrian pathways or in areas primarily dedicated to
         human activity shall be bollard-style lighting or down-directed lighting not to exceed
         twelve feet in height. Pedestrian lighting shall be coordinated through each project and
         shall complement adjacent projects to the greatest extent practical.

         c. In order to avoid light pollution, backlit awnings, up-light spotlights, and floodlights
         are prohibited.

         d. Street lighting shall either be chosen from the city’s approved streetlight list or
         installed to match a theme set by developments within the zone or neighborhood.

    7. Upgrading Preexisting Lighting. An applicant must bring preexisting lighting into
    compliance with this code upon application with the business license department for a
    change in ownership, new business in a stand-alone structure or in a multi-tenant structure
    in which the new business utilizes more than fifty percent of the building square footage on
    the site, in conjunction with an application for a building permit for any alteration, remodel
    or expansion of any structure on the site, or in conjunction with changes to the approved
    site plan.

    8. Lighting Plan Submission Requirements. A lighting plan is required for all developments
    and must contain the following:

         a. Plans indicating the location on the premises, and the type of illumination devices,
         fixtures, lamps, supports, reflectors, installation and electrical details;




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 90 of 166


         b. Description of illuminating devices, fixtures, lamps, supports, reflectors, and other
         devices that may include, but is not limited to, manufacturer catalog cuts and
         drawings, including section where required; and photometric data, such as that
         furnished by manufacturers, or similar showing the angle of the cutoff or light
         emission;

         c. A point-by-point light plan to determine the adequacy of the lighting over the site.

I. Additional Design Standards. This section outlines the town center design standards that
affect a building’s appearance and quality. The intent is to improve the physical quality of
buildings, enhance the pedestrian experience, protect the character of the neighborhood,
create visual interest, and contribute to its sense of place.

    1. Materials and Color.

         a. Primary Street-Facing Facade Materials. A minimum of eighty percent of each facade
         shall be constructed of primary materials. For facades over one hundred square feet,
         more than one material shall be used to meet the eighty percent requirement.
         Permitted primary building materials include high quality, durable, natural materials,
         such as stone; brick; wood lap siding; fiber cement board; lapped, shingled, or panel
         siding; or glass. Other high-quality synthetic materials may be approved by the
         community development director during the site plan process.

         b. Secondary Street-Facing Facade Materials. Secondary materials on primary street-
         facing facades are limited to details and accents and include gypsum reinforced fiber
         concrete for trim and cornice elements; metal for beams, lintels, trim, and
         ornamentation; and exterior architectural metal panels and cladding. Exterior
         insulation and finishing systems (EIFS) are permitted for trim only or on upper floor
         facades, up to twenty percent of total.

         c. Roof Materials. Acceptable roof materials include three-hundred-pound, or better,
         dimensional asphalt composite shingles, wood shingles and shakes, metal tiles or
         standing seam, slate, and ceramic tile. “Engineered” wood or slate may be approved
         during the site plan process with an approved sample. Membrane roofs are acceptable
         for flat roofs with no surface visible from the street.




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 91 of 166


         d. Color. Main building colors shall be complementary to existing building stock,
         where applicable.

         e. Appropriate Grade of Materials. Commercial-quality doors, windows, and hardware
         shall be used on all building types with the exception of the row building type.

         f. Restricted Materials List.

              i. Vinyl or aluminum siding, highly reflective metal, mirrored windows, and plain
              cement block materials are prohibited.

              ii. Stucco is only permitted when used on facades that do not face public streets,
              adjacent residential areas, or open space.

    2. Windows, Awnings, and Shutters.

         a. Windows. Transparency requirements vary by building type.

         b. Awnings. All awnings shall be canvas, metal, glass, or wood. Plastic awnings are not
         permitted. Awning types and colors for each building face shall be coordinated.
         Awnings shall provide a minimum of an eight-foot vertical clearance above ground
         plane.

         c. Shutters. If installed, shutters, whether functional or not, shall be sized for the
         windows. If closed, the shutters shall not be too small for complete coverage of the
         window. Shutters shall be wood or metal. “Engineered” wood may be approved during
         the site plan process.

    3. Drive-Through Structures. Drive-through structures are not permitted in any form district
    or with any building type.

    4. Meters and Equipment Placement. Equipment shall be screened from view and not
    located on a public frontage.

    5. Waste Containers. Waste containers shall be located out of public view and screened
    with landscaping and/or a structure that is compatible with the theme of the adjacent
    building.




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 92 of 166


    6. Residential Development Requirements. Residential rental developments shall include
    visitability features for at least ten percent of units, including no-step entries, ADA
    restrooms and accessible controls. (Ord. 2020-04 § 1 (Att. A (part)))




17-7-11.7        Open space.

A. General Requirements.

    1. Intent. To provide open space as an amenity that promotes physical and environmental
    health within the community and to provide each household with access to a variety of
    active and passive open space types.

    2. Applicability. Open space types are permitted, not permitted, or limited according to
    each form district. See Table 7.01.


                            Table 7.01. Open Space Type by Form District


                                  Open Space Type            Form District



                                                            MS             TCC



                           Pocket Park                  P              P



                           Town Square                  P              P



                           Park                         P              P



                           BTZ Pedestrian Space         L              L




                           P = Permitted                N = Not Permitted



                           L = Limited by Building and Frontage Type




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 93 of 166


    3. All open spaces shall meet the following general requirements:

         a. All open spaces within the Main Street FBC district shall comply with one of the
         open space types as defined in this section.

         b. All open space types shall provide public access from a vehicular and/or pedestrian
         right-of-way.

         c. Pocket park, town square, and park open spaces shall be platted as a parcel or
         group of parcels or, with permission from the city, may be located within a right-of-
         way.

         d. Unless prohibited, open space types may incorporate fencing; provided, that the
         following requirements are met:

              i. Fencing shall be a maximum height of three feet unless approved by the
              community development director for such circumstances as proximity to railroad
              right-of-way or use around swimming pools, ball fields, and ball courts.

              ii. Fence opacity shall be no greater than sixty percent. Landscaping is exempt
              from this opacity requirement.

              iii. Chain-link fencing is not permitted, with the exception of dedicated sports field
              or court fencing as approved by the community development director.

              iv. If a fence is built along a street front, openings, with or without gates, shall be
              provided on each individual street front with a minimum spacing of one opening
              every one hundred feet or a minimum of one opening on street fronts that are
              less than one hundred feet.

         e. Ownership of all open space types may be either public or private.

         f. Parking shall not be required for an open space type, unless a use other than open
         space is determined by the city.

         g. Continuity of connections to existing or planned trails or open space types shall be
         made when the open space abuts key trail corridors or another open space type.

    4. Requirements.



        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 94 of 166


         a. The following further explains or defines the requirements for each open space
         type. Refer to Tables 7.02 through 7.05 for the specific requirements of each open
         space type.

         b. Dimensions.

              i. The minimum area of all open space types is measured within the lot lines of
              the property.

              ii. The maximum area of all open space types is measured within the lot lines of
              the property.

              iii. The minimum dimension requirement is a way to make sure that the size of an
              open space is not too small for its particular open space type. The minimum
              dimension for all open space types is derived from overlaying the open space plan
              with two straight lines that intersect at right angles and whose endpoints are at
              the outer property lines. The first line is placed at the longest distance across the
              open space. The second line crosses the first line at a right angle at the place on
              the first line that follows the longest distance in the direction perpendicular to the
              first line. The “minimum dimension” is the shorter of these two lines. Figure 7.01
              shows three examples of measuring the minimum dimension.


                         Figure 7.01. Minimum Dimension Measurement Examples




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 95 of 166




         c. The minimum access requirement ensures access and visibility for the open space.
         It is described in two ways:

              i. The percentage of the total perimeter that must be adjacent to a public right-of-
              way.

              ii. The minimum number of and/or spacing between access points into the open
              space.

         d. Adjacent lots are those which are directly adjacent to or directly across the street
         from an open space.

              i. The adjacent form district requirement places a restriction on open spaces
              which are located adjacent to a form district boundary. The given open space type
              is permitted to be adjacent to the listed form district(s).

              ii. The preferred orientation of adjacent lots is toward the open space. The given
              open space type is permitted adjacent to, or across the street from, the listed
              property line type(s).

         e. Improvements of the following types may be permitted in an open space:



        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 96 of 166


              i. Sports fields are fields or courts that are designed for one or more specific
              sports.

                     (A) Sports fields areas are limited in size, expressed as a maximum
                     percentage of the total park area.

                     (B) Paved sports courts do not count toward pavement requirements.

              ii. Playgrounds are defined areas with play structures and equipment, such as
              slides, swings, and climbing structures, typically for children under twelve years
              old.

              iii. Structures.

                     (A) Fully enclosed inhabitable structures are permanent structures with a
                     roof and walls with closeable doors that fully enclose the space. They are
                     intended for uses such as, but not limited to, park offices, maintenance sheds,
                     community centers, and restrooms.

                     (B) Open-air inhabitable structures are permanent structures with a roof or
                     overhead covering and partially or fully open sides. Examples include, but are
                     not limited to, gazebos, pavilions, pergolas, and shade structures.

                     (C) Landscape structures are permanent uninhabitable structures that are
                     used for aesthetic purposes or active uses that are not a sports field/court or
                     playground. Examples include, but are not limited to, water features,
                     monuments, sculptures, splash pads, climbing walls, and skate parks.

              iv. The pavement requirements are expressed as percentages of the total area of
              the open space, as measured within the lot boundaries. Paved areas may use
              impervious and/or semi-pervious paving materials. Three percentages are given:

                     (A) The minimum total area is the smallest permitted paved area and
                     includes the sum of both impervious and semi-pervious paved areas.

                     (B) The maximum total area is the largest permitted paved area and includes
                     the sum of both impervious and semi-pervious paved areas.




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 97 of 166


                   (C) The maximum impervious pavement area is the largest area permitted to
                   be paved with impervious paving materials. This maximum impervious
                   pavement percentage is lower than the maximum total percentage so the use
                   of semi-pervious areas are required to reach the maximum total paved area.
                   With no minimum for impervious paved area, the maximum total area may be
                   reached by using only semi-pervious materials.

                   (D) Paved sports courts are not counted in the pavement requirement
                   percentages.

              v. Lighting makes open spaces useful after sunset and improves nighttime safety. Each
              open space type requires lighting, but the amount and type of lighting differs with
              each open space type and design. Except as required in this section, lighting in
              open spaces shall be subject to the same lighting standards as buildings.

              vi. Seating is an important component of all open spaces; it encourages people to
              stop and spend time in the open space rather than just pass through and allows
              people with different mobility and physical needs to enjoy the open space. Each
              open space type requires seating, but the amount and type of seating differs with
              each open space type and design. The following principles apply to open space
              seating:

                   (A) Seat counts for manufactured seat furniture shall be counted according to
                   the manufacturer’s specifications. For built-on-site seating, such as seat walls,
                   steps, and benches, each two feet of linear seating shall be considered one
                   seat.

              vii. “Landscaping” refers to areas that are planted with live plants. These areas are
              subdivided into lawns (expanses of turf grass) and planted areas (plants that are
              not turf grass). Trees can be planted in both lawns and planted areas. Landscape
              designs will vary widely between open space types and are based on specific site
              characteristics and design goals.

              viii. Bicycle facilities located in open spaces are an important part of the active
              transportation network. The amount and type of bicycle facilities differs with open
              space type and design. The following principles apply to open space bicycle
              facilities:


        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 98 of 166


                  (A) Bicycle rack locations shall be convenient to rights-of-way or other
                  connections to the active transportation network, be visible in the daytime
                  and well-lit at night in order to deter bike theft.

                  (B) Each bicycle rack shall have an appropriate amount of clear space around
                  it so that loading and unloading a bicycle from the rack shall not impede any
                  adjacent pedestrian walkway.

                  (C) Bicycle racks with permanent coverings are encouraged.

         f. BTZ pedestrian space is the space between the primary facade of a building and the
         adjacent right-of-way property line when the facade is located within the BTZ and away
         from the property line. BTZ pedestrian space is not required. Buildings with primary
         facades located directly on the right-of-way property line have no BTZ pedestrian
         space.

              i. BTZ pedestrian space regulations apply only to the general, limited bay, and
              civic building types and only along primary frontages.

              ii. Depth is measured from the right-of-way property line, perpendicular to the
              property line, to the portion of the building facade that is furthest from the
              property line.

              iii. May include paved areas and/or planted areas.

                  (A) BTZ pedestrian spaces must include paved walkways/driveways to all
                  pedestrian and vehicular entrances in the facade.

                  (B) Planted areas shall be enclosed with six-inch-high curbing.

                  (C) Trees are not permitted in any BTZ pedestrian space.

              iv. Must be open to the street and shall only be enclosed by the primary building
              facade.

                  (A) Shall not be enclosed with any overhead roof structure or building mass.
                  Shade structures are permitted.

                  (B) Shall not be enclosed with any fencing, walls, or hedges.



        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 99 of 166


              v. Shall be open to public use.

    5. Stormwater in Open Space Types. Stormwater management structures, such as storage
    and retention facilities, may be integrated into open spaces and used to meet stormwater
    requirements for surrounding lots.

         a. Stormwater features in open spaces may be designed as formal or natural
         amenities with additional uses other than stormwater management, such as an
         amphitheater, sports field, or a pond or pool as part of the landscape design.
         Stormwater features shall not be fenced and shall not impede public use of the land
         they occupy.

         b. A qualified professional such as a landscape architect, certified landscape designer,
         or civil engineer shall prepare and/or review plans for any open space that
         incorporates stormwater features.

B. Pocket Park.

    1. Intent. Pocket park areas may be appropriate in certain areas of the district. These parks
    may be very narrow or otherwise constrained in ways that would make a more traditional
    larger park unfeasible.

    2. General Requirements. Pocket parks should be strategically located, if possible. Pocket
    parks are a valuable temporary use on lots that are undeveloped. Regulations for the
    pocket park open space type are defined in Table 7.02.


                                Table 7.02. Pocket Park Requirements


               Dimensions



               1.                       Minimum Area              0.10 acres



               2.                       Maximum Area              0.25 acres



               3.                       Minimum Dimension         None




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 100 of 166



               4.                       Minimum Access            1 pedestrian entry to
                                                                  right-of-way for every
                                                                  20' of frontage



               Adjacent Lots



               5.                       Adjacent Form             Any
                                        District(s)



               6.                       Adjacent Lot Lines        Side, Rear



               Improvements



               7.                       Permitted Sports          Not Permitted
                                        Fields/Courts



               8.                       Playground                Permitted



               9.                       Permitted Structures      Open-air inhabitable,
                                                                  water feature,
                                                                  monument, sculpture,
                                                                  splash pad



               10.                      Minimum Paving Total      15%
                                        Area



               11.                      Maximum Paving Total      30%
                                        Area



               12.                      Maximum Impervious        20%
                                        Pavement Area



               13.                      Lighting                  Required, 16' max
                                                                  fixture height




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                 Page 101 of 166



               14.                      Seating                   1 per 500 SF



               15.                      Landscaping               50% min. live plant
                                                                  coverage in planted
                                                                  areas at maturity,
                                                                  excluding trees



               16.                      Trees                     1 per 1000 SF



               17.                      Bicycle Facilities        1 rack per 1200 SF,
                                                                  minimum 3.

                                                                  1 bicycle repair station
                                                                  at 10,000 SF.


C. Town Square.

    1. Intent. A high-quality town square space can become the “heart” of a community, when
    located effectively and with the right amount of attention given to how the space is used
    and designed. Town squares do not need to be large in size but should be well located in
    the most highly concentrated and pedestrian-oriented parts of the community.

    2. General Requirements. Town squares should be well designed, and located in visible and
    easily accessed places.

         a. Town squares shall be fronted by public streets or primary building facades and
         surrounded by activity on all sides.

         b. Town squares may not be located behind parking lots.

         c. Regulations for the town square open space type are defined in Table 7.03.


                                  Table 7.03. Town Square Requirements


              Dimensions



              1.                        Minimum Area              0.50 acres




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                Page 102 of 166



              2.                        Maximum Area                2 acres



              3.                        Minimum Dimension           35'



              4.                        Minimum Access              50% of perimeter open
                                                                    to street frontage



              Adjacent Lots



              5.                        Adjacent Form District(s)   Any



              6.                        Adjacent Lot Lines          Front



              Improvements



              7.                        Permitted Sports            Not Permitted
                                        Fields/Courts



              8.                        Playground                  Not Permitted



              9.                        Permitted Structures        Open-air inhabitable,
                                                                    water feature,
                                                                    monument, sculpture,
                                                                    kiosk



              10.                       Minimum Paving Total        30%
                                        Area



              11.                       Maximum Paving Total        75%
                                        Area



              12.                       Maximum Impervious          50%
                                        Pavement Area




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                  Page 103 of 166



              13.                       Lighting                  Required, 16' max fixture
                                                                  height



              14.                       Seating                   1 per 500 SF



              15.                       Landscaping               50% min. live plant
                                                                  coverage in planted
                                                                  areas at maturity,
                                                                  excluding trees



              16.                       Trees                     1 per 1000 SF



              17.                       Bicycle Facilities        1 rack per 1200 SF,
                                                                  minimum 3

                                                                  1 bicycle repair station at
                                                                  10,000 SF, plus 1
                                                                  additional bicycle repair
                                                                  station for each
                                                                  additional 1.0 acre


D. BTZ Pedestrian Space.

    1. Intent. Pedestrian spaces within the BTZ are an extension of the pedestrian realm public
    space. They are an effective way to improve the appearance, function, and experience of
    the streetscape. These small pedestrian spaces provide distinction to individual buildings,
    spatial diversity within building facades, and functional outdoor space for activities like
    cafes, seating, and displays.

    2. General Requirements. BTZ pedestrian space is not required. These BTZ pedestrian space
    requirements apply only to the general, limited bay, and civic building types and only along
    primary frontages.

         a. The location, size, quantity, and proportions of any BTZ pedestrian spaces shall take
         into consideration the specific features of the facade, including facade bay
         configuration, entrance type and quantity, and both major and minor division features.




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)              Page 104 of 166


         b. Regulations for the BTZ pedestrian space open space type are defined in Table
         7.04.


                             Table 7.04. BTZ Pedestrian Space Requirements


                  Dimensions



                  1.                      Minimum Depth          None



                  2.                      Maximum Depth          BTZ Depth



                  3.                      Minimum Width          None



                  4.                      Maximum Width          Length of primary
                                                                 frontage



                  Frontage and Building Types



                  5.                      Permitted Frontage     Primary
                                          Types



                  6.                      Permitted Building     General, Limited Bay,
                                          Types                  Civic



                  Improvements



                  7.                      Permitted Structure    Monument,
                                                                 sculpture, water
                                                                 feature



                  8.                      Minimum Paved Area     1 walkway per
                                                                 pedestrian entrance

                                                                 1 driveway per
                                                                 vehicular entrance




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)              Page 105 of 166



                   9.                     Lighting               Permitted, bollard
                                                                 lights, landscaping
                                                                 lights, 16' max. pole
                                                                 fixture height



                   10.                    Seating                Permitted



                   11.                    Landscaping            50% min. live plant
                                                                 coverage in planted
                                                                 areas at maturity,
                                                                 excluding trees



                   12.                    Bicycle Facilities     Permitted


E. Park.

    1. Intent. Park space is important to every community, but it must be located and designed
    in order to be used by a variety of users at all times of the day and all days of the week.
    Park space should be oriented to pedestrian networks, including convenient access to trail
    networks.

    2. General Requirements. Parks should be designed to be sensitive to community
    limitations on water usage and maintenance resources. Parks should be appropriately
    scaled to focus on neighborhood usage and be open to and welcome all users.

           a. Parks are only permitted to be constructed by government entities for public use.
           Any project proposing a park open space shall provide for ongoing maintenance
           meeting or exceeding those standards defined in Section 17-7-11.8.

           b. Regulations for the park open space type are defined in Table 7.05.


                                      Table 7.05. Park Requirements


              Dimensions



              1.                        Minimum Area               None




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                 Page 106 of 166



             2.                         Maximum Area                None



             3.                         Minimum Dimension           80'



             4.                         Minimum Access              25% of perimeter open to
                                                                    street frontage



             Adjacent Lots



             5.                         Adjacent Form District(s)   Any



             6.                         Adjacent Lot Lines          Front, Side



             Improvements



             7.                         Permitted Sports            Basketball, tennis,
                                        Fields/Courts               volleyball, pickleball



             8.                         Playground                  Permitted



             9.                         Permitted Structures        Open-air inhabitable,
                                                                    water feature,
                                                                    monument, sculpture,
                                                                    splash pad



             10.                        Minimum Paving Total        10%
                                        Area



             11.                        Maximum Paving Total        25%
                                        Area



             12.                        Maximum Impervious          15%
                                        Pavement Area




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                    Page 107 of 166



               13.                            Lighting              Required, 16' max fixture
                                                                    height



               14.                            Seating               1 per 500 SF



               15.                            Landscaping           50% min. live plant
                                                                    coverage in planted areas
                                                                    at maturity, excluding
                                                                    trees



               16.                            Trees                 1 per 1000 SF



               17.                            Bicycle Facilities    1 rack per 1200 SF,
                                                                    minimum 3.

                                                                    1 bicycle repair station at
                                                                    10,000 SF, plus 1
                                                                    additional bicycle repair
                                                                    station for each
                                                                    additional 1.0 acre



(Ord. 2021-08 § 1 (Att. A); Ord. 2020-04 § 1 (Att. A (part)))




17-7-11.8            Landscaping.

A. General Requirements.

     1. Intent. The landscape standards outlined in this section are designed to meet the
     following set of goals:

          a. To provide for healthy, long-lived street trees within all public ways to improve the
          appearance of streets and to create a buffer between pedestrian and vehicular travel
          lanes.

          b. To increase the compatibility of adjacent uses and minimize the adverse impacts
          created by adjoining or neighboring uses.



         The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)              Page 108 of 166


         c. To promote the prudent use of water and energy resources by achieving and
         maintaining sustainable, functional landscapes.

         d. To shade large expanses of pavement and reduce the urban heat island effect.

    2. Applicability. Landscaping, trees, and buffers shall be installed as detailed in this section.

         a. General Compliance. Application of this section to existing uses shall occur with the
         following developments:

              i. Any development of new or significant improvements to existing parking lots, loading
              facilities, and driveways. Significant improvements include new driveways, new
              spaces, new medians, new loading facilities, or complete reorganization of the
              parking and aisles.

              ii. Alteration to an existing principal or accessory structure that results in a
              change of fifteen percent or more in the structure’s gross floor area.

              iii. When compliance is triggered for existing parking lots, landscape
              improvements shall take precedence over parking requirements.

         b. Landscape buffers are required according to the provisions in this section with the
         following exceptions:

              i. Shared Driveways. Buffers shall not be required along a property line where a
              curb cut or aisle is shared between two adjoining lots.

              ii. Points of Access. Buffering is not required at driveways or other points of access
              to a lot.

         c. These provisions do not apply to temporary uses, unless determined otherwise by
         the community development director.

B. Landscaping Installation.

    1. Intent. The following provisions aid in ensuring that all required landscaping is installed
    and maintained properly.

    2. Applicability. These provisions apply to landscape installation as required by this section.




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)              Page 109 of 166


    3. General Installation Requirements. The installation of landscaping shall adhere to the
    following standards:

         a. National Standards. Best management practices and procedures according to the
         nationally accepted standards shall be practiced.

              i. Installation. All landscaping and trees shall be installed in conformance with the
              practices and procedures established by the most recent edition of the American
              Standard for Nursery Stock (ANSI Z60.1) as published by the American Association
              of Nurserymen.

              ii. Maintenance and Protection. All landscaping and trees shall be maintained
              according to the most recent edition of the American National Standards Institute,
              including its provisions on pruning, fertilizing, support systems, lighting protection,
              and safety.

         b. Installation. Landscaping shall be fully installed prior to the issuance of a certificate
         of completeness.

              i. If seasonal conditions preclude the complete installation, a cash escrow or
              irrevocable letter of credit, equal to the installation costs as estimated by a
              qualified professional.

              ii. Complete installation is required within nine months of the issuance of the
              temporary certificate of completeness or occupancy permit or the cash escrow or
              letter of credit may be forfeited.

         c. Condition of Landscape Materials. The landscaping materials used shall be:

              i. Healthy and hardy with a good root system.

              ii. Chosen for their form, texture, color, fruit, pattern of growth, and suitability to
              local conditions.

              iii. Tolerant of the natural and manmade environment, including tolerant of
              drought, wind, salt, and pollution.

              iv. Appropriate for the conditions of the site, including slope, water table, and soil
              type.


        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)              Page 110 of 166


              v. Protected from damage by grates, pavers, or other measures.

              vi. Plants that will not cause a nuisance or have negative impacts on an adjacent
              property.

              vii. Species native or naturalized to the Wasatch Front, whenever possible.

         d. Compost, mulch, and organic matter may be utilized within the soil mix to reduce
         the need for fertilizers and increase water retention.

         e. Establishment. All installed plant material shall be fully maintained until established,
         including watering, fertilization, and replacement as necessary.

    4. Ground Plane Vegetation. All unpaved areas shall be covered by one of the following:

         a. Planting Beds.

              i. Planting beds may include shrubs, ornamental grasses, ground cover, vines,
              annuals, or perennials.

              ii. Planting beds shall be planted such that a minimum of fifty percent their area is
              covered by live plant material at plant maturity. Tree canopies are not included in
              coverage calculations.

              iii. Nonliving materials, such as colored gravel or organic mulch, are permitted to
              be visible in no more than fifty percent of a bed area. Mulch depth should be a
              minimum of three inches.

              iv. Annual beds must be maintained seasonally and replanted as necessary.

         b. Turf grass is not permitted in any of the three landscape zones described in this
         section.

         c. Planting beds shall be designed and maintained to provide adequate visibility in the
         sight distance triangle.

              i. Planting plans around known signage locations shall select low-growing plants
              to provide long-term sign visibility with minimal maintenance.

              ii. Planting beds near pedestrian and vehicular intersections shall be designed to
              maintain safe sight lines for pedestrians and drivers.

        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)              Page 111 of 166


    5. Tree Installations.

         a. Tree Measurement. New trees shall be measured at six inches above the mean grade
         of the tree’s trunk when four-inch caliper or less and twelve inches for tree trunks
         above four inches and noted as caliper inches throughout this section.

         b. Tree Maintenance. Tree trimming, fertilization, and other similar work shall be
         performed by or under the management of an ISA certified arborist.

         c. Tree Size. All trees to be installed to meet the requirements of this section shall be a
         minimum of two-inch caliper at the time of installation.

         d. Structural Soil and Soil Cells. When a tree is to be planted within a park strip or
         paved area such as a plaza (and the pavement is not yet installed), structural soil is
         required underneath the adjacent pavement. Structural soil is a medium that can be
         compacted to pavement design and installation requirements while still permitting
         root growth. It is a mixture of gap-graded gravels (made of crushed stone), clay loam,
         and a hydrogel stabilizing agent to keep the mixture from separating. It provides an
         integrated, root penetrable, high strength pavement system that shifts design away
         from individual tree pits.

         e. Energy conservation can be enhanced by plant placement. Plantings shall be
         designed to reduce the energy consumption needs of the development.

              i. Deciduous trees should be placed on the south and west sides of buildings to
              provide shade from the summer sun and allow heat from the winter sun to reach
              the buildings.

              ii. Evergreen plants and other plant materials should be concentrated on the
              north side of buildings to dissipate the effect of winter winds.

    6. Irrigation Systems. Permanent irrigation, beyond establishment, is required and shall
    adhere to the following standards:

         a. All irrigation systems shall be designed to minimize the use of water.

         b. Nonresidential landscape irrigation shall have an automatic clock-activated
         permanent controller and shall be smart and weather-based instead of clock-based. A
         WaterSense label or industry equivalent is required.


        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)              Page 112 of 166


         c. The irrigation system shall provide sufficient coverage to all landscaped areas.

         d. The irrigation system shall not spray or irrigate impervious surfaces, including
         sidewalks, driveways, streets, and parking and loading areas.

         e. All systems shall be equipped with a backflow prevention device.

         f. All mechanical systems including controllers and backflow prevention devices shall
         be properly screened from public view.

    7. Maintenance of Landscape. All landscaping shall be maintained in good condition at all
    times to ensure a healthy and orderly appearance.

         a. All required landscaping shall be maintained to adhere to all requirements of this
         chapter.

         b. Unhealthy plants shall be replaced with healthy, live plants by the end of the next
         applicable growing season. This includes all plant material that shows dead branches
         over a minimum of twenty-five percent of the normal branching pattern.

         c. The owner is responsible for the maintenance, repair, and replacement of all
         landscaping, screening, and curbing required herein.

         d. Maintenance shall preserve at least the same quantity, quality, and screening
         effectiveness as initially installed.

         e. Fences, walls, and other barriers shall be maintained in good repair and free of
         rust, flaking paint, graffiti, and broken or damaged parts.

         f. Tree topping is not permitted. When necessary, crown reduction thinning or
         pruning is permitted.

         g. All landscaped areas regulated by this section may be inspected by the city.

C. Street Trees.

    3. Minimum Street Tree Requirements. The following standards apply to the installation of
    street trees:

         a. The minimum clear branch height in the MS and TCC districts is eight feet.



        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)              Page 113 of 166


         b. Street tree species shall be selected according to the conditions of the park strip
         and in compliance with Tables 8.01 through 8.05. A certified arborist may recommend
         species to be approved by the city on a per-project basis.

         c. Street tree spacing requirements are defined by street type.

         d. Street trees may be planted in tree wells with grates or in planting beds, as defined
         by street type.

    4. Streetscape Design. Street trees are located in the public right-of-way and are included in
    the streetscape design for each street.


                                      Table 8.01. Small Street Trees

                                          for use under power lines


                     1.    Crabapples (fruitless only)   2.    Whitebeam Mountain Ash



                     3.    Golden Rain Tree              4.    Eastern Redbud



                     5.    Japanese Tree Lilac           6.    Hedge Maple



                     7.    Amur Maple                    8.    Rocky Mountain Maple



                     9.    Tatarian Maple                10.   Green Mountain Ash



                     11.   Dwarf Littleleaf Linden       12.   Zelkova



                                      Table 8.02. Small Street Trees

                               for landscape zones less than five feet wide


                      1.   Any of the trees in Table 8.01



                      2.   Amur                  3.                  Turkish Filbert




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)              Page 114 of 166



                             Chokecherry



                      4.     Thornless          5                  Netleaf
                             Hawthorn                              Hackberry



                      6.     European           7.                 Paperbark Maple
                             Mountain Ash



                      8.     Red                9.                 Hardy Rubber
                             Horsechestnut                         Tree



                      10.    Kwanzan Cherry



                                      Table 8.03. Medium Street Trees

                            for landscape zones between five and eight feet wide


                     1.     Hedge Maple               2.    Velvet Ash



                     3.     Littleleaf Linden         4.    Yellowwood



                     5.     Lacebark Elm              6.    Fairview Maple



                     7.     Pyramidal Hornbeam        8.    Chinese Fringe Tree



                     9.     Thornless Honeylocust     10.   Frontier Elm



                     11.    Briotii Horsechestnut     12.   Sensation Boxelder



                     13.    Manchurian Ash            14.   Purple Robe Locust



                                         Table 8.04. Large Street Trees

                                   for landscape zones wider than eight feet



        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)              Page 115 of 166



                    1.     American Linden              2.    Patmore Seedless Ash



                    3.     Common Hackberry             4.    Red Oak



                    5.     English Oak                  6.    Silver Linden



                    7.     European Beech               8.    Sycamore Maple



                    9.     Ginkgo (male variety only)   10.   Accolade Elm



                    11.    Japanese Zelkova             12.   Cimmaron Ash



                    13.    Marshall Seedless Green      14.   Thornless Honeylocust
                           Ash



                    15.    Japanese Pagoda Tree         16.   Kentucky Coffeetree



                    17.    London Planetree             18.   Sterling Silver Linden



                                   Table 8.05. Prohibited Street Trees


                     1.    Aspen                        2.    Fruit-bearing trees



                     3.    Balm of Gilead               4.    Nut-bearing trees



                     5.    Gambel Oak                   6.    Birch (all species)



                     7.    Mayday Tree                  8.    Black Locust



                     9.    Mulberry (all species)       10.   Common Box Elder



                     11.   Russian Olive                12.   Catalpa




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)              Page 116 of 166



                     13.   Saskatoon Serviceberry     14.   Chinese Date



                     15.   Cottonwood (all species)   16.   Silk Tree



                     17.   Flowering Plum             18.   Conifers (all species)



                     19.   Willow (all species)       20.   Flowering Pear (all
                                                            varieties)


D. Landscape Areas.

    1. Intent. To increase the compatibility of adjacent uses and minimize the adverse impacts
    created by adjoining or neighboring uses. This is accomplished by defining three different
    types of landscape areas. These areas help to screen, separate, and define the edges of a
    lot and the interior of surface parking lots. Landscaping is only permitted to be installed in
    the areas defined in this section or as part of an open space area described in Section 17-7-
    11.7.

    2. The three landscape areas are:

         a. Parking lot frontage buffers;

         b. Parking lot interior landscape; and

         c. Side and rear landscape buffers.

E. Parking Lot Frontage Buffers.

    1. Intent. Landscaped buffers around parking lots are designed to reduce the visual impact
    of vehicular areas on public streets and adjacent properties.

    2. Applicability. Applies to properties in all form districts where a parking lot abuts a street
    frontage. Regulations for the parking lot frontage buffer landscape area type are defined in
    Table 8.06 and Figure 8.01.


                       Table 8.06. Parking Lot Frontage Buffer Requirements




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                  Page 117 of 166



           Buffer Requirements



           1.                          Depth                       5'0" min.



           2.                          Location                    Required where a parking
                                                                   lot abuts a street frontage



           Planting Requirements



           3.                          Trees                       Required every 30'0" on
                                                                   center where there is
                                                                   space for a buffer tree to
                                                                   be planted at the halfway
                                                                   point between street trees,
                                                                   on street side of fence
                                                                   when a fence is present.



           4.                          Ground Plane Vegetation     Buffers are required to be
                                                                   planted with live plants
                                                                   with at least 50% coverage
                                                                   at maturity, excluding
                                                                   trees.



           Fencing (Optional)



           5.                          Height                      3'0" min. / 4'0" max.



           6.                          Location                    2'0" offset from parking lot
                                                                   outer curb



           7.                          Opening                     1 pedestrian opening
                                                                   allowed per street
                                                                   frontage, 4'0" minimum
                                                                   width.



                           Figure 8.01. Parking Lot Frontage Buffer Diagram


        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                   Page 118 of 166




F. Parking Lot Interior Landscape.

    1. Intent. Landscaped areas within parking lots are designed to provide shade, minimize
    stormwater runoff, and improve the appearance of parking lots.

    2. Applicability. All surface parking lots with fourteen or more parking spaces shall provide
    landscaping in accordance with the provisions of this section, with the exception of those
    areas within the surface parking lot that have a building or roof overhang that renders
    landscaping impracticable. Regulations for the parking lot interior landscape area type are
    defined in Table 8.07 and Figure 8.02.


                        Table 8.07. Parking Lot Interior Landscape Requirements


      Landscape Island Requirements



      1.                                Locations                       1 island at the ends of each
                                                                        row/parking bay, including
                                                                        parking lot corner plus 1
                                                                        island every 10 stalls in each




           The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                     Page 119 of 166



                                                                        row/bay.



      2.                                Width                           5'0" min. width plus structural
                                                                        soil or soil cell area, 10'0"
                                                                        radius from tree center,
                                                                        required for trees planted in
                                                                        any island narrower than 15'0"
                                                                        wide.



      Planting Requirements



      3.                                Trees                           1 large shade tree per island,
                                                                        min.



      4.                                Ground Plane Vegetation         Islands are required to be
                                                                        planted with live plants with at
                                                                        least 50% coverage at
                                                                        maturity, excluding trees.



                         Figure 8.02. Parking Lot Interior Landscaping Diagram




G. Side and Rear Landscape Buffers.




           The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                Page 120 of 166


    1. Intent. Landscaping along the rear and sides of a lot are designed to minimize negative
    impacts between adjacent developments and provide softening and screening between
    properties.

    2. Applicability. These landscape buffers are required in all developments with ground
    floor nonresidential uses within the district and must include a fence or hedge, as
    described in Table 8.08. Approved shared parking lots are exempt from side and rear
    landscape buffer requirements when the parking lot straddles a side or rear lot line.
    Regulations for the side and rear landscape buffer landscape area type are defined in Table
    8.08 and Figure 8.03.


                    Table 8.08. Side and Rear Landscape Buffer Requirements


        Depth & Location



        1.                            Locations                     Required along side and rear
                                                                    lot lines (not along street
                                                                    frontages or across
                                                                    driveways)



        2.                            Depth                         5'0" min.



        Landscape Requirements



        3.                            Trees                         1 tree per 30'0" of side and
                                                                    rear lot lines where the
                                                                    provided landscape buffer is
                                                                    10'0" wide or greater



        4.                            Hedge Option                  A continuous double row of
                                                                    shrubs planted in the space
                                                                    between trees. Individual
                                                                    shrubs to have a minimum
                                                                    mature width of 3'0" and
                                                                    minimum mature height of
                                                                    4'0" planted at no greater




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                             Page 121 of 166



                                                                               than 3'0" on center.



          5.                                 Fence Option                      An opaque fence with a
                                                                               minimum height of 6'0" to be
                                                                               installed adjacent to the lot
                                                                               line. The buffer on the
                                                                               interior side of the fence
                                                                               must include a sidewalk
                                                                               and/or be planted with live
                                                                               plants with at least 50%
                                                                               coverage at maturity,
                                                                               excluding trees.



                           Figure 8.03. Side and Rear Landscape Buffer Diagram




(Ord. 2022-15 § 1 (Att. A); Ord. 2021-08 § 1 (Att. A); Ord. 2020-04 § 1 (Att. A (part)))




17-7-11.9           Parking.

A. General Requirements.

     1. Intent. These provisions are established to accomplish the following:


         The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)              Page 122 of 166


         a. Ensure an appropriate level of vehicle parking, loading, and storage to support a
         variety of uses.

         b. Provide appropriate site design standards to mitigate the impacts of parking lots on
         adjacent uses and form districts.

         c. Provide specifications for vehicular site access.

    2. Applicability. This section shall apply to all new development and changes in use or
    intensity of use for existing development, in any form district.

         a. Compliance with these required standards outlined shall be triggered by the
         following circumstances:

              i. Development of new parking facilities, loading facilities, and driveways.

              ii. Improvements to existing parking facilities, loading facilities, and driveways,
              including reconfiguration, enlargement, or the addition of curbs, walkways,
              fencing, or landscape installation.

              iii. Change in use requiring a change in the amount of parking.

         b. Damage or Destruction. When a use that has been damaged or destroyed by fire,
         collapse, explosion, or other cause is reestablished, any associated off-street parking
         spaces or loading facilities shall be reestablished based on the requirements of this
         section.

         c. Site Plan Approval. Parking quantities and parking design and layout shall be
         approved through the site plan approval process.

B. Parking Requirements.

    1. General Requirements for Parking.

         a. Accessible Parking. Parking facilities accessible for persons with disabilities shall be
         in compliance with or better than the standards detailed in the state accessibility code,
         including quantity, size, location, and accessibility.

         b. Approved Unlisted Uses. Upon receiving a site plan approval, occupancy certificate,
         or other permit application for a use not specifically addressed in Section 17-7-11.3,


        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)              Page 123 of 166


         the city is authorized to apply off-street parking standards specified for the use
         deemed most similar to the proposed use. In instances where an equivalent may not
         be clearly determined, the city may require the applicant to submit a parking study or
         other evidence that will help determine the appropriate requirements.

         c. The minimum required on-site parking must be provided for the use of the owner
         or tenant of a dwelling unit in a mixed-use project or a multifamily dwelling and their
         guests at no additional cost beyond the base sale or lease price of the dwelling unit.

    2. Required Vehicular and Bicycle Parking.

         a. Table 9.01 contains the vehicular parking requirements and Table 9.02 outlines the
         bicycle parking requirements.

              i. Parking requirements are organized by use and form district. Parking
              requirements are provided by use subcategory and form district; these numbers
              are applicable for all of the uses within each subcategory.

              ii. The parking requirement columns in Table 9.01 indicate minimum and/or
              maximum required off-street parking ratios, which may be subject to credits and
              other reductions, as detailed in this section.

              iii. Table 9.02 indicates the minimum bicycle parking ratio for each given use.

              iv. Computation. Off-street parking spaces shall be calculated using the following
              information:

                  (A) Area Measurements. The following units of measurements shall be utilized
                  to calculate parking requirements:

                       (1) Dwelling/Rooming Unit. Parking standards for residential uses shall be
                       computed using dwelling unit, rooming unit, or room as the unit of
                       measure, unless otherwise stated.

                       (2) Net Leasable Floor Area. Unless otherwise expressly stated, parking
                       standards for nonresidential uses shall be computed using net leasable
                       floor area as that term is defined in Section 17-2-14.




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 124 of 166


                          (3) Occupancy- or Capacity-Based Measurements. Parking spaces required
                          per available seat or per employee, student, or occupant shall be based
                          on the greatest number of persons on the largest shift, the maximum
                          number of students enrolled, or the maximum fire-rated capacity,
                          whichever measurement is applicable.

                          (4) Bench Seating. For uses in which users occupy benches, pews, or other
                          similar seating facilities, each twenty-four inches of such seating shall be
                          counted as one seat.

                    (B) Fractions. When computation of the number of required off-street
                    vehicular parking spaces results in a fractional number, any result of one-half
                    or more shall be rounded up to the next consecutive whole number. Any
                    fractional result of less than one-half may be rounded down to the previous
                    consecutive whole number.

                    (C) When there are multiple uses on a lot, spaces shall be calculated as an
                    amount equal to the combined requirements for all uses on the lot.


                        Table 9.01. Vehicular Parking Requirements by Use and Form District


              Use Category                       Requirement                   Calculation Unit



                                               MS           TCC



Residential & Lodging



1.       Single-Family & Multi-Family      1.0 min. /   1.0 min. /   per dwelling unit
         (Studio/1-bedroom)                1.0 max.     1.0 max.



2.       Multi-Family (2-bedrooms)         1.0 min. /   1.0 min. /   per dwelling unit
                                           1.5 max.     1.5 max.



3.       Multi-Family (3+-bedrooms)        1.0 min. /   1.0 min. /   per dwelling unit
                                           2.0 max.     2.0 max.




         The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                   Page 125 of 166



               Use Category                        Requirement                      Calculation Unit



                                                  MS            TCC



4.         Hotel & Inn                      1.0 max. +    1.0 max. +   per room + per 200 SF office & dining
                                            1.0 max.      1.0 max.



5.         Residential Care                 n/a           0.5 max. +   per rooming unit + per employee
                                                          0.75 max.



Civic & Institutional



6.         Assembly (Public & Private)      0.2 max.      0.25 max.    per seat (capacity)



7.         Transit Station                  TBD           TBD          per community development director



8.         Medical / Dental Clinic          1.25 max. +   1.5 max. +
                                            0.75 max.     1.0 max.
                                                          per
                                                          treatment
                                                          room + per
                                                          employee



9.         Library / Museum / Post Office   0.75 max.     1.0 max.     per 600 SF



10.        Police & Fire                    1.0 max       1.0 max      per 200 SF, not including equipment
                                                                       storage garages



11.        School: Pre-K through Junior     1.0 max. +    1.0 max. +   per classroom + per 200 SF office
           High                             0.75 max.     1.0 max.     space



12.        School: High School & Higher     1.0 max. +    1.0 max. +   per classroom + per 200 SF office
           Education                        0.75 max. +   1.0 max. +   space + per student
                                            0.15 max.     0.20 max.




          The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                    Page 126 of 166



                Use Category                        Requirement                      Calculation Unit



                                                   MS         TCC



Retail



13.         General Retail                   1.0 max.     1.25 max.     per 300 SF



14.         Neighborhood Retail              0.75 max.    1.0 max.      per 300 SF



Service



15.         General Service                  0.5 max.     0.75 max.     per 250 SF



16.         Neighborhood Service             0.5 max.     0.75 max.     per 250 SF



17.         Bars & Restaurants               0.5 max. +   0.5 max. +    per seat (capacity) + per employee
                                             0.75 max.    0.75 max.



Office & Industrial



18.         Office / Professional            1.0 max.     1.0 max.      per 200 SF



19.         Craftsman / Industrial           n/a          1.0 max. +    per 500 SF retail space + per 1000 SF
                                                          1.5 max.      production space



Site Uses



20.         Open Space                       TBD          TBD           per community development director




n/a = use is not permitted in the given form district     TBD = to be determined by community development
                                                          director




            The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 127 of 166


                                           Table 9.02. Bicycle Parking Requirements


                                  Use Category or Type      Minimum Required Bicycle
                                                                  Parking Spaces



                                 1.        Multi-Family    the greater of 4 spaces or
                                                           0.05 spaces per bedroom



                                 2.        Civic &         2 spaces + 1 per 10,000 SF
                                           Institutional



                                 3.        Retail          2 spaces + 1 per 5,000 SF



                                 4.        Service         2 spaces + 1 per 5,000 SF



                                 5.        Office /        2 spaces + 1 per 10,000 SF
                                           Professional



                                 6.        Open Space      per community
                                                           development director



(Ord. 2022-09 § 1 (Att. K); Ord. 2021-08 § 1 (Att. A); Ord. 2020-04 § 1 (Att. A (part)))




17-7-11.10          Signage.

A. General Requirements.

     1. Intent. This section seeks to enhance the economic and aesthetic appeal of the town
     center neighborhood through the reasonable, orderly, safe, and effective display of
     signage. Signage should contribute to the identity and brand of the town center.

     2. General Requirements. Compliance with the regulations outlined shall be attained under
     the following situations:




         The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)              Page 128 of 166


         a. Newly Constructed or Reconstructed Signage. All new signs and structural
         improvements to existing signs shall comply with these regulations.

         b. Change in Use for Single Business Signage. For signage serving one business,
         whenever the existing use is changed to a new use requiring any change of signage
         content, the new sign and sign content shall comply with these regulations.

         c. Maximum Sign Area. Unless otherwise specified, the total area of all permanent
         signage associated with any building shall be fifteen percent of the area of the primary
         building facade.

         d. Sign Quantity. Indicates the number of signs permitted per building unit such as
         quantity per facade bay or a percentage of window square footage. Multiple sign types
         may be used on the same building when the sign quantity indicates one maximum per
         facade bay and indicates that the quantity is cumulative across sign types. Any mix of
         such sign types is permitted on a single building as long as the maximum quantity per
         facade bay is maintained for the entire building

         e. Sign Location. Unless otherwise specified, signs shall only be located within the
         boundaries of the lot and not in the right-of-way or on public property.

              i. Certain sign types may project beyond a property line into the right-of-way or
              into public property.

              ii. No sign shall be attached to a utility pole, traffic pole, tree, standpipe, gutter,
              drain, or other vertical support structure that was not purposely built to support
              the sign.

              iii. Signs shall be erected so as to permit free ingress to and egress from any
              door, window, the roof, or any other exit-way required by the building code or by
              fire department regulations.

              iv. No sign shall be erected or maintained in such a manner as to obstruct free
              and clear vision of, interfere with, or be confused with any authorized traffic sign,
              signal, or device, or where it may interfere with vehicle or train line-of-sight.

              v. Signs oriented to the pedestrian realm are required for each entryway on a
              public street. These signs should be mounted at a comfortable height and be clear



        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)              Page 129 of 166


              and legible from the close range at which a pedestrian encounters the sign. The
              bottom edge of each sign should be no higher than nine feet from the ground
              plane and shall not exceed a total area of twenty-five square feet.

         f. Illumination. All signs shall be illuminated according to the following provisions
         unless otherwise stated:

              i. Signs shall be illuminated only by steady, stationary light sources directed solely
              at the sign or internal to it, except as permitted for electronic message boards for
              marquee signs.

              ii. Individual letters or logos may be internally illuminated as permitted per each
              sign type; when this type of lighted lettering is used, no other portion of the sign
              shall be internally illuminated.

              iii. Gas-discharge tube signage, commonly known as “neon signs,” is not
              permitted, unless such neon element is used to (1) reproduce a historic sign that
              used to exist in the location along Main Street even if the historic building has
              been removed, or (2) replace an existing sign that is located on an existing historic
              structure along Main Street, or (3) create a new sign that is located on an existing
              historic structure along Main Street.

              iv. Marquee signs, with either electronic or manually changed lettering, are
              permitted unless otherwise prohibited.

              v. When an external artificial light source is used to illuminate a sign, the lamp (or
              bulb) shall be located, shielded, and oriented so as to not be visible from any
              public street or private residence.

                  (A) No receptacle or device housing a permitted light source which is
                  attached to the sign itself shall extend more than one and one-half feet from
                  the face of the sign.

                  (B) Sign lighting output shall count towards maximum light output allowed
                  per property.

                  (C) Light must be directed downward with no light transmitted above
                  horizontal plane of luminaire.



        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)              Page 130 of 166


         g. Temporary Signs. The following standards apply to temporary signage:

              i. Each tenant may be allowed one temporary A-frame sign.

                (A) Temporary signs are A-frame signs constructed of white plastic or wood and
              internally weighted are allowed.

                (B) Signs shall be no greater than eight square feet per side. No other temporary           Formatted: Indent: First line: 0.13"

              signs are permitted.




              ii. Temporary signs shall not be located in a bulb-out or park strip area (concrete
              or landscape). the public right-of-way or clear view area.

              iii. Temporary sign exposure is limited to three thirty-day periods per year.

              iv. Temporary signs shall not count toward the requirements of any other sign
              type.




         h. Double-sided signs are permitted with certain sign types. A double-sided sign has
         two sign faces of equal dimensions that are coplanar and face in opposite directions.
         When a double-sided sign is permitted, the sign area requirements apply to each side
         of the sign separately.

         i. Sign Type Requirements. The following pertain to specific sign types detailed in this
         section:

              i. Temporary signs are A-frame signs constructed of white plastic or wood and
              internally weighted are allowed. Such signs shall be no greater than eight square
              feet per side. No other temporary signs are permitted.

              ii. Window signs shall not count toward the signage quantity and area or size
              requirements for any other sign type.

              iii. Signs Facing onto Parking Lots. One parking lot facing sign is permitted in
              addition to the maximum requirements for other sign types.




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)              Page 131 of 166


                  (A) Permitted sign types for parking lot facing signs are wall, projecting, or
                  awning signs.

                  (B) Maximum sign area is thirty square feet.

                  (C) Permitted location is either a side or rear facade that faces a parking lot.

                  (D) If such signs face existing single family homes, they may not be
                  illuminated.

              ivii. Iconic Signs Elements. Iconic signs may be allowed at the discretion of the city if
              the lighting of the sign does not significantly impact adjacent neighbors and the
              sign helps to identify the town center area. Such signs shall comply with the
              following:

                  (A) Symbol or Logo Size. The symbol or logo may not be larger than ten feet in
                  any direction.

                  (B) No moving parts or external illumination of the symbol or logo may be
                  provided.

                  (BC) The text component of the sign may not be more than seventythirty
                  percent of the overall area of the sign.

              iv. Historic Signs. Any existing signs that the city has identified as historic shall be
              included in the site plan approval process in order to encourage their preservation
              and/or reuse.

B. Wall Signs.

    1. Intent. Wall signs, also known as flat, channel letter, or band signs, are mounted directly
    to the building face to which the sign is parallel. Refer to the figures below.

    2. Regulations. Wall signs shall be developed according to the standards in Table 10.01.

         a. Wall signs shall not cover windows or other building openings.

         b. Wall signs shall not cover architectural building features and shall be architecturally
         compatible with the building.




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                  Page 132 of 166


         c. Painted signs, a type of wall sign painted directly onto the building facade, are
         permitted.

         d. Nameplate signs indicate the name or occupation of the tenant. They shall be subject
         to all of the requirements of the wall sign type but shall be no larger than three square
         feet maximum per tenant.

         e. No wall signs shall be permitted on any facade facing an existing single family
         residential zone, except for iconic sign elements as approved by the city.

    3. Calculation. The area of a wall sign is calculated using the following information:

         a. For attached signs, area is calculated by drawing the smallest possible square or
         rectangle around the largest letters and/or elements, as illustrated in Figure 10.01.

         b. For painted signs, area is calculated by measuring the area of the smallest square
         or rectangle that can be drawn around all of the sign elements, including any painted
         background.


                                    Table 10.01. Wall Sign Requirements


              1.   Permitted Districts   MS, TCC



              2.   Sign Area             2.0 SF of sign area per linear foot of facade bay
                                         width; 200 SF max. area per sign; 3.0 SF max. area
                                         per tenant for nameplate signs.



              3.   Height                3' max letter or element height



              4.   Location              Permitted on all facades



              5.   Placement             1' max. projection from building face



              6.   Quantity              1 max. per primary facade bay (cumulative across
                                         all permitted sign types)




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                  Page 133 of 166



              7.   Internal Illumination   Permitted for individual letters and logos



              8.   Materials               Solid wood, metal, masonry, and glass are
                                           permitted. Plastic and synthetics are permitted
                                           only as separate alphanumeric characters or logo
                                           elements. Vinyl banners or similar signs are not
                                           permitted.



                                Figure 10.01. Wall Sign Measuring Diagrams




C. Awning Signs.

    1. Intent. A sign that is mounted, painted, or otherwise applied on or attached to an
    awning.

    2. Regulations.

         a. Awning signs shall be developed according to the standards in Table 10.02 and the
         encroachment regulations in Section 17-7-11.5.

    3. Calculation.

         a. The area of the awning is defined as the rectangular area of the building facade
         that is covered by the awning, i.e., awning height multiplied by awning width.




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                   Page 134 of 166


         b. The sign area is a percentage of the surface area of the awning. The surface area is
         the total area of the sides and front of the awning, including both vertical and sloped
         or rounded parts of the awning.

         c. Sign area is calculated by drawing the smallest possible square or rectangle around
         the largest letters and/ or elements of the sign portion of the awning, as illustrated in
         the top image in Figure 10.01.


                                  Table 10.02. Awning Sign Requirements


              1.   Permitted Districts     MS, TCC



              2.   Awning Area             3.0 SF of awning area per linear foot of primary
                                           facade bay width; 300 SF max. area per sign.



              3.   Sign Area               Up to 50% of the awning surface may be used for
                                           signage.



              4.   Height                  8' min. vertical clearance above ground plane.



              5.   Location                Permitted on all facades



              6.   Placement               Maximum projection from the building facade is
                                           determined by street frontage type. Awnings shall
                                           not project within 2' from the back of curb and
                                           shall not overlap, block, or cover any window,
                                           door, or roof.



              7.   Quantity                1 max. per primary facade bay (cumulative across
                                           all permitted sign types)



              8.   Internal Illumination   Not permitted



              9.   Materials               Awning surface shall be made of canvas, metal,
                                           glass, or wood. Plastic is not permitted. All
                                           structural supports shall be made of metal or



        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                 Page 135 of 166



                                         wood.



                                     Figure 10.02. Awning Sign Example




D. Hanging/Projecting Signs.

    1. Intent. A projecting sign is attached to and projects from a building face or hangs from a
    support structure that projects from the building face. Sign faces are typically
    perpendicular to the building face but may be angled away from the facade no less than
    forty-five degrees. The sign may be vertically or horizontally oriented.

    2. Regulations.

         a. Projecting signs shall be developed according to the standards in Table 10.03.

         b. Double-sided signs are permitted.

         c. No projecting signs shall be permitted on any facade facing an existing single family
         residential zone, except for iconic sign elements as approved by the city.

         d. Backlit box or cabinet signs are not permitted.


                           Table 10.03. Hanging/Projecting Sign Requirements


              1.   Permitted Districts   MS, TCC



              2.   Sign Area             1.5 SF of sign area per linear foot of facade bay
                                         width; 160 SF max. area per sign face




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                      Page 136 of 166



              3.   Total Size              8' max. width by 20' max. height, including sign
                                           face(s) and all support structures



              4.   Location                Permitted on all facades facing a public right-of-
                                           way



              5.   Placement               10' min. clearance above the ground plane.
                                           Hanging/projecting signs shall not project further
                                           than 8' from the building face and shall not project
                                           within 2' from the back of curb. Sign faces and
                                           structural supports shall not extend above any
                                           eave or parapet.



              6.   Quantity                1 max. per primary facade bay (cumulative across
                                           all permitted sign types)



              7.   Internal Illumination   Permitted for individual letters and logos



              8.   Materials               Solid wood, metal, masonry, and glass are
                                           permitted. Plastic and synthetics are permitted
                                           only as separate alphanumeric characters or logo
                                           elements. All structural supports shall be made of
                                           metal or wood.



                                    Figure 10.03. Projecting Sign Example




E. Monument Signs.




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)              Page 137 of 166


    1. Intent. A monument sign is freestanding and located in a front or side yard of a lot.

    2. Regulations.

         a. Monument signs shall be developed according to the standards in Table 10.04.

         b. Multiple tenant buildings on a lot with a width of greater than three hundred feet,
         measured across the front property line, may have signage with the following
         parameters:

              i. Up to two monument signs on one frontage.

              ii. Signs shall be at least one hundred fifty feet apart.

              iii. Monument signs may not be pole mounted.

              iv. Manually changeable text is not permitted for monument signs.

              v. May serve multiple purposes such as seating.

              vi. If placed closer than five feet from the front and corner side property lines,
              signs must meet clear view requirements.

              vii. Double-sided signs are permitted.

         c. Buildings on a lot with a width of greater than six hundred feet, measured across a
         primary frontage, may have signage with the following parameters along such
         frontage:

              i. Up to nine feet tall and a maximum area of seventy-five square feet per sign
              face.

              ii. Up to two monument signs on one frontage.

              iii. Signs shall be at least three hundred feet apart.

              iv. Monument signs may not be pole mounted.

              v. Manually changeable text is not permitted for monument signs.

              vi. May serve multiple purposes, such as seating.




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                       Page 138 of 166


              vii. If placed closer than five feet from the front and corner side property lines,
              signs must meet clear view requirements.

              viii. Double-sided signs are permitted.


                                   Table 10.04. Monument Sign Requirements


              1.   Permitted Districts      TCC



              2.   Sign Area                50 SF max. area per sign face.



              3.   Total Size               6' height by 10' width by 3' depth, including sign
                                            face(s) and all support structures.



              4.   Location                 Primary street and side street BTZ.



              5.   Placement                1 max. per street frontage. When placed at the
                                            intersection of two street frontages, the sign shall
                                            not obstruct the sight distance triangle.



              6.   Quantity                 1 max. per street frontage.



              7.   Internal Illumination    Permitted for individual letters and logos



              8.   Materials                Solid wood, metal, masonry, and glass are
                                            permitted. Plastic and synthetics are permitted
                                            only as separate alphanumeric characters or logo
                                            elements. All structural supports shall be made of
                                            metal or wood.



                                         Figure 10.04. Monument Sign Example




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                   Page 139 of 166




F. Freestanding Post Signs.

    1. Intent. Freestanding post signs are pedestrian-scale signage and may be mounted on
    one or two poles. Three configurations are permitted:

         a. A sign mounted onto a double set of poles.

         b. A sign mounted on a single pole.

         c. A sign hanging from a single pole.

    2. Regulations.

         a. Freestanding post signs shall be developed according to the standards in Table
         10.05.

         b. Double-sided signs are permitted..


                               Table 10.05. Freestanding Post Sign Requirements


              1.   Permitted Districts    MS, TCC



              2.   Sign Area              8 SF max. area per sign face



              3.   Height                 8' max. for signs mounted or hanging on a single
                                          pole; 5' max. for signs mounted on a double set of
                                          poles.



              4.   Pole Size              4'' by 4'' max. pole cross-section



              5.   Location               Primary street and side street BTZ




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                    Page 140 of 166



              6.   Placement               Pole setback 2' min. from right-of-way property
                                           lines; property line overhangs are not permitted.



              7.   Quantity                1 max. per primary facade bay (cumulative across
                                           all permitted sign types)



              8.   Internal Illumination   Not permitted



              9.   Materials               Solid wood, metal, masonry, and glass are
                                           permitted. Plastic and synthetics are permitted
                                           only as separate alphanumeric characters or logo
                                           elements. All structural supports shall be made of
                                           metal or wood.



                               Figure 10.05. Freestanding Post Sign Examples




G. Window Signs.

    1. Intent. A window sign is posted, painted, placed, or affixed to or near the interior surface
    of a window for public viewing on the exterior of the window. Window signs should be
    durable and adhered permanently to the interior surface.

    2. Regulations.

         a. Window signs shall be developed according to the standards in Table 10.06.

    3. Calculation.




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                Page 141 of 166


         a. The total window area is a sum of the areas of individual windows and glass doors.
         A “continuous set” of windows is a group of one or more windows or glass doors that
         are separated by mullions or frames less than eight inches in width.

         b. To measure sign area percentage, divide the total sign area by the total window
         area.

         c. Window signs are not counted toward a site’s maximum signage allowance.

         d. Address and hours of operation signs are considered exempt and are not counted
         in the window sign area calculation.

         e. Temporary window signs shall be included in the total percentage of signage per
         window calculation.

         f. Window signs may not be internally illuminated. Neon (gas-discharge tube), LED
         screens and shapes, marquee signs, and other similar illuminated signs are not
         permitted.




                                  Table 10.06. Window Sign Requirements


              1.   Permitted Districts   MS, TCC



              2.   Sign Area             Maximum signage coverage for any continuous set
                                         of windows is 25%. Maximum signage coverage for
                                         any individual window is 40%.



              3.   Height                No max. or min.



              4.   Location              Permitted on all facades



              5.   Placement             Permitted on ground and upper-story windows
                                         where not occupied by a residential use. Window
                                         signs shall not obstruct the visibility from
                                         employee stations outside the building or of law




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                            Page 142 of 166



                                                enforcement personnel into the business.



                 6.    Quantity                 Ground story: no maximum, determined by sign
                                                area.

                                                Upper stories: 1 individual window or continuous
                                                set of windows per tenant per floor.



                 7.    Internal Illumination    Not permitted



                 8.    Materials                Paint, wood, glass, plastic, metal, and other similar
                                                materials are permitted.



(Ord. 2022-15 § 1 (Att. A); Ord. 2021-08 § 1 (Att. A); Ord. 2020-04 § 1 (Att. A (part)))




17-7-11.11            Administration.

A. General Requirements.

     1. Intent. This chapter intends to promote public health, safety, and general welfare of the
     community, reflecting the goals established within the general plan of Midvale City and the
     Main Street small area plan. This chapter intends to increase conformity to the greatest
     extent possible.

B. Scope of Regulations.

     1. New Development. All development, construction, and establishment of uses within the
     limits of this chapter occurring after the effective date of this chapter shall be subject to all
     applicable regulations of this chapter.

     2. Renovated Structures. All building renovations affecting a change of use greater than
     twenty-five percent gross square footage of a structure within the limits of this chapter
     shall be subject to all applicable regulations of this chapter.

     3. In-Process Development. Where a building permit for a development has been applied
     for in accordance with the prior law in advance of the effective date of this chapter, said



         The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)              Page 143 of 166


    development may comply with the plans from which the permit was approved and, upon
    completion, receive a certificate of occupancy (provided all conditions are met) provided
    the following requirements are satisfied:

         a. Work or construction is begun within one year of the effective date of this chapter;
         and

         b. Work or construction continues diligently toward completion.

    4. Nonconformance. After the effective date of this chapter, existing buildings and uses that
    do not comply with the regulations of this chapter shall be considered nonconforming and
    are subject to the standards of this chapter.

         a. General Provisions.

               i. Permissions.

                   (A) Any nonconforming lot, use, structure, or sign that was lawfully
                   established before the FBC was implemented may continue as long as the
                   nonconformity remains legal and complies with all other FBC nonconformity
                   requirements.

               ii. Administration.

                   (A) Any rights conferred on a nonconformity remain with the property and
                   are not affected by changes in tenancy or ownership.

                   (B) The burden of establishing the existence of a conformity prior to the FBC
                   implementation is on the applicant.

                   (C) Determinations about the existence of a legal nonconformity shall be
                   made by the community development director.

               iii. Limitations.

                   (A) Any lot, use, structure, or sign that was illegal prior to implementation of
                   the form-based code remains illegal if it does not conform to the form-based
                   code.




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)              Page 144 of 166


                  (B) Nonconformity regulations apply to all projects that were submitted for
                  approval before implementation of the form-based code. All projects
                  submitted after implementation of the form-based code shall meet the
                  requirements of the form-based code.

                  (C) If any portion of the form-based code is judged invalid by a jurisdictional
                  court, that judgement shall not affect the remaining portions of the form-
                  based code.

              iv. Uses.

                  (A) Permissions.

                       (1) An existing nonconforming use may be extended to the entire floor
                       area of the building it is located in.

                       (2) Structures containing nonconforming uses may be altered according
                       to the requirements of the form-based code.

                       (3) If a structure containing a nonconforming use is damaged or
                       destroyed, the nonconforming use may be reestablished at the same
                       scale as it operated prior to the destructive event.

                  (B) Limitations.

                       (1) Nonconforming uses may be expanded to additional parcels
                       provided, however, the building into which the use expands otherwise
                       fully complies with the form-based code.

                       (2) An existing nonconforming use may not be changed to a different
                       nonconforming use.

                       (3) If a nonconforming use is abandoned, any future use shall be a
                       conforming use. When a nonconforming use transitions to a conforming
                       use, it shall not be changed back to any nonconforming use.

              v. Structures.

                  (A) Permissions.



        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)              Page 145 of 166


                       (1) Nonconforming structures may be altered if the alteration is required
                       by law to restore the structure to a safe condition.

                       (2) Nonconforming structures may be altered if the alteration:

                            (a) Is routine repair or maintenance;

                            (b) Eliminates a nonconformity;

                            (c) Does not expand an existing nonconformity; or

                            (d) Does not create a new nonconformity.

                       (3) Nonconforming structures and parking lots may be expanded if the
                       expansion is conforming or increases the overall conformity of the
                       property.

                       (4) In the event of damage or destruction to a nonconforming structure
                       which is damaged or destroyed by fire, earthquake, or other calamity
                       beyond the control of the owner, the building may be reconstructed or
                       repaired to the conditions which existed prior to the casualty, provided
                       the structure or structures existed as legally established structures. All
                       such construction or repairs shall be started within twelve months from
                       the date of damage and shall be diligently pursued to completion.

                       (5) Existing nonconforming structure facades may be altered if the
                       modifications do not increase the amount of nonconformity.

                  (B) Limitations.

                       (1) If a nonconforming structure is damaged or destroyed, all permits for
                       rebuilding, restoration, or repair must be granted within one year of the
                       damage or destruction. If the applicant requests an extension, the
                       community development director may grant no more than one extension,
                       not to exceed one year in length.

                       (2) If a nonconforming structure is relocated, the structure shall fully
                       comply with the current zoning regulations of the parcel to which it is
                       moved.


        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                Page 146 of 166


                         (3) If all required permits for the rebuilding, restoration, or repair of a
                         damaged or destroyed nonconforming structure are not granted within
                         one year of the damage or destruction, and no extension period is
                         granted, the structure may be rebuilt, restored, or repaired only if it
                         conforms to the requirements of the form-based code.

       5. Exempt Activities. The activities within this section are exempt from the requirements of
       this chapter. Building permits may still be required under the building code for actions
       taken in accordance with this section.

           a. Ordinary repairs for the purpose of regular building, signage, lighting or site
           maintenance.

           b. Replacement of existing windows, doors, or fixtures that do not change the
           transparency percentage of the building.

           c. Interior construction that does not result in change of use and is not visible from
           the exterior of the building.

           d. Emergency repairs ordered by any city official in order to protect health and safety.

       6. Appeals.

           a. All city decisions which interpret or administer this chapter may be appealed to the
           planning commission within ten days of final action by filing notice of appeal with the
           community and economic development department.

           b. Following final action by the planning commission, any person with standing to
           challenge the decision may, within ten days of the final action, appeal the decision to
           the appeal authority following the process defined in Section 17-3-14.

       7. Any state or federal regulations that apply within the form-based code area, and are in
       conflict with form-based code regulations, shall supersede the form-based code
       regulations.

C. Minor Modifications to a Site Plan. The community development director may approve minor
modifications to an approved site plan. Modifications may be evaluated through a letter of
application and the provision of the reasoning behind the request. Such requests may be made
for:


          The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)              Page 147 of 166


    1. Minor modifications to proposed landscaping plans, pursuant to the modification
    standards established.

    2. Minor modifications to buildings, including setbacks and materials, pursuant to the
    modification standards.

         a. Building materials that reflect the intent of the original material.

         b. The city may modify the requirements of this chapter where full compliance is
         impossible due to the existing site or building conditions.

    3. Minor modifications to parking requirements, pursuant to the development of an
    alternative parking plan. (Ord. 2020-04 § 1 (Att. A (part)))




17-7-11.12       Definitions.

A. The meaning and usage of terminology is not universal. Some of the terms in this FBC are
used differently in other contexts. The definitions provided in this FBC are specific to how they
are used within the FBC. These definitions are not subject to multiple interpretations and shall
not be altered. When a definition is not provided herein, Chapter 17-2 shall be used.

B. Graphics. The graphics, tables, and text utilized throughout this code are regulatory. In case
of a conflict, text shall control over tables and graphics and tables shall control graphics.

C. Defined Terms.

    1. “A” Definitions.

         a. “Animal” means all nonhuman members of the animal kingdom, including domestic
         and livestock species.

         b. “Assembly” means a facility that has organized services, meetings, or programs to
         benefit, educate, entertain, or promote discourse amongst the residents of the
         community in a public or private setting. “Assembly” includes such uses as a
         community center, house of worship, and private clubs and lodges.




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)              Page 148 of 166


         c. “Auto-related use” means an establishment primarily engaged in the sale or rental
         of goods, merchandise, and services related to vehicles, such as repair, body work,
         painting, detailing, vehicle and vehicle-related equipment sales.

    2. “B” Definitions.

         a. “Bicycle rack” means a device to which bicycles can be securely attached for parking
         purposes. A bike rack may be freestanding or it may be securely attached to the
         ground or some stationary object such as a building. Each rack must provide space for
         two or more bicycles to be secured.

         b. “Blank wall limitation” means a restriction on the amount of windowless area
         permitted on a facade that fronts a street. When required, the following shall be met
         for each story:

              i. No rectangular area greater than thirty percent of a story’s facade, as measured
              floor to floor, may be windowless.

              ii. No rectangular segment of a story’s facade with a horizontal width greater than
              fifteen feet may be windowless.

         c. “Block depth” means a block measurement that is the horizontal distance between
         the front property line on a block face and the front property line of the parallel or
         approximately parallel block face.

         d. “Block ends” means the lots located on the end of a block; these lots are often
         larger than the lots in the interior of the block or those at the opposite end of the block
         and can be located on a more intense street type. They are typically more suitable for
         more intensive development, such as multiple family or mixed-use development.

         e. “Block face” means the aggregate of all the building facades on one side of a block.

         f. “Block length” means a block measurement that is the horizontal distance along the
         front property lines of the lots comprising the block.

         g. “Build-to-zone” means an area in which the front or corner side facade of a building
         shall be placed; it may or may not be located directly adjacent to a property line. The
         zone dictates the minimum and maximum distance a structure may be placed from a
         property line. Refer to Figure 12.01.


        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)              Page 149 of 166


                                Figure 12.01. Setback Line vs. Build-to Zone




         h. “Building type” means a structure defined by the combination of configuration,
         form, and function. Refer to 17-7-11.6, Building Types, for more information and the
         list of permitted building types.

    3. “C” Definitions.

         a. “Clinic” means a building or portion of a building containing an office or offices of
         medical doctors, dentists, psychiatrists, chiropractors, physical therapists and other
         members of the medical profession which provides facilities and services for
         outpatient care, diagnosis, treatment, and observation of individuals suffering from
         illness, injury or other conditions requiring medical, surgical or therapeutic services.
         This definition does not include facilities providing patient beds for overnight care.

         b. “Courtyard” means an outdoor area enclosed by a building on at least two sides
         and open to the sky.

         c. “Coverage, building” means the percentage of a lot developed with a principal or
         accessory structure.

         d. “Coverage, impervious site” means the percentage of a lot developed with principal
         or accessory structures and impervious surfaces, such as driveways, sidewalks, and
         patios.

         e. Craftsman Use. See “Industrial/craftsman use.”



        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)              Page 150 of 166


    4. “D” Definitions.

         a. “Dedication” means the intentional appropriation of land by the owner to the city
         for public use and/or ownership.

         b. “Dwelling unit” means a room or group of rooms connected together that includes
         facilities for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating that are arranged, designed, or
         intended to be used as living quarters for one family, whether owner occupied, rented,
         or leased.

    5. “E” Definitions.

         a. “Eave” means the edge of a pitched roof; it typically overhangs beyond the side of a
         building.

         b. “Entrance type” means the permitted treatment types of the ground floor facade of
         a building type. Refer to Section 17-7-11.6 for more information and a list of permitted
         entrance types.

         c. “Expression line” means an architectural feature. A decorative, three-dimensional,
         linear element, horizontal or vertical, protruding or indented at least two inches from
         the exterior facade of a building typically utilized to delineate floors or stories of a
         building.

    6. “F” Definitions.

         a. “Facade” means the exterior face of a building, including but not limited to the wall,
         windows, windowsills, doorways, and design elements such as expression lines. The
         front facade is any building face adjacent to the front property line.

         b. “Facade bay fenestration features” means a set of design features that are required
         in addition to minor division features. Table 12.01 lists the options for facade bay
         fenestration features. The minimum number of features that must be used to define
         adjacent bays is listed in each building type requirements table.


                             Table 12.01. Facade Bay Fenestration Features




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)              Page 151 of 166



                            Window casing/cornice/sill



                            Window size



                            Window shape



                            Quantity of windows



                            Window spacing/configuration



                            Projection/Recession of details



                            Balcony size/spacing/configuration



                            Awning size/spacing/configuration


         c. Fire. See “Police and fire.”

         d. “Form district” means a designation given to each lot within the city that dictates
         the standards for development on that lot. Refer to Section 17-7-11.2, Form districts,
         for more information and a list of permitted form districts.

    7. “G” Definitions.

         a. “Gross floor area” means the sum of all areas of a building, including accessory
         storage areas or closets within sales spaces, working spaces, or living spaces, and any
         basement floor area used for retailing activities, the production or processing or
         goods, or business offices. It shall not include attic space having headroom of seven
         feet or less and areas devoted primarily to storage, balconies, off-street parking and
         loading areas, enclosed porches, roof decks, roof gardens, or basement floor area
         other than specified above.

    8. “H” Definitions.

         a. “Hotel” and “inn” mean a facility offering temporary or permanent lodging to the
         general public consisting of sleeping rooms with or without in-room kitchen facilities.



        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)              Page 152 of 166


         Secondary service uses may also be provided, such as restaurants and meeting rooms.
         Rooms shall be accessed from the interior of the building. Bed and breakfasts are
         permitted.

    9. “I” Definitions.

         a. “Industrial/craftsman use” means a use involving small-scale manufacturing,
         production, assembly, and/or repair, with little to no noxious by-products, that includes
         a showroom or small retail outlet. These uses may also include associated facilities
         such as offices and small-scale warehousing, but distribution is limited. The maximum
         overall gross floor area is limited to twenty thousand square feet, unless otherwise
         noted. Outdoor activities and storage of goods are not permitted.

    10. “J” Definitions.

    11. “K” Definitions.

    12. “L” Definitions.

         a. “Landscape area” means area on a lot not dedicated to a structure, parking or
         loading facility, frontage buffer, side and rear buffer, or interior parking lot
         landscaping.

         b. Library/Museum/Post Office. Libraries and museums are open to the general public
         for housing educational, cultural, artistic, or historic information, resources, and
         exhibits. May also include food service and a gift shop. A post office is a publicly
         accessed facility for the selling of supplies and mail-related products and the small-
         scale collection and distribution of mail and packages. Large-scale postal sorting and
         distribution is not permitted.

         c. “Lot,” also referred to as “parcel,” means a plot of land intended to be separately
         owned, developed, or otherwise used as a unit. A lot may consist of one or many
         parcels. Most of the regulations in this FBC apply to the lot rather than the parcel.
         Refer to Figure 12.02, Lots. Projects that are developed in phases shall be considered
         one lot if only one permitting application process is required and two or more lots if
         two or more permitting application processes are required.


                                              Figure 12.02. Lots


        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)              Page 153 of 166




         d. “Lot, corner” means a parcel of land abutting at least two vehicular rights-of-way,
         excluding an alley, at their intersection. Refer to Figure 12.02, Lots.

         e. “Lot, flag” means a parcel of land having its only access to the adjacent vehicular
         right-of-way, excluding an alley, through a narrow strip of land. Refer to Figure 12.02,
         Lots.

         f. “Lot, interior” means a parcel of land abutting a vehicular right-of-way, excluding an
         alley, along one property line, surrounded by lots along the remaining property lines.
         Refer to Figure 12.02, Lots.

         g. “Lot, through,” also referred to as a “double frontage lot,” means an interior lot
         having frontage on two approximately parallel vehicular rights-of-way, excluding an
         alley. Refer to Figure 12.02, Lots.

         h. “Lot area” means the computed area contained within the property lines; it is
         typically denoted in square feet or acres. Refer to Figure 12.02, Lots.




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)              Page 154 of 166


         i. “Lot depth” means the smallest horizontal distance between the front and rear
         property lines measured approximately parallel to the corner and/or side property
         line. Refer to Figure 12.02, Lots.

         j. “Lot frontage” means the horizontal distance between the side property lines,
         measured at the front property lines. Refer to Figure 12.02, Lots.

    13. “M” Definitions.

         a. “Major division” means required divisions on longer buildings and identified by a
         dividing feature. Long facades may require more than one major division. Each major
         division consists of two or more minor divisions. All major divisions must be indicated
         by one of the divider features illustrated in Figure 12.03. The outside edges of a
         primary facade are the equivalent of a major divider. The minimum and maximum
         width of the major division is listed in feet in each building type requirements table.


                              Figure 12.03. Major Facade Division Diagrams




         b. “Major division features” means architectural elements that must differ between
         adjacent major divisions. Table 12.02 lists the options for major division features. The
         minimum number of features that must be used to define adjacent bays is listed in
         each building type requirement table.


                                   Table 12.02. Major Division Features

        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)              Page 155 of 166



                                Facade setback change: 8'0" depth min.



                                Recessed area: 4'0" deep by 8'0" wide
                                min.



                                Primary facade courtyard


         c. “Medical/dental clinic” means a facility or institution, whether public or private,
         principally engaged in providing services for health maintenance and the treatment of
         mental or physical conditions.

         d. “Minor division” means required divisions within each major division. Each minor
         division defines an individual bay in the building’s facade. The minimum and maximum
         width of the minor division is listed in feet in each building type requirement table.

         e. “Minor division features” means architectural elements that must differ between
         adjacent minor divisions or are used to divide adjacent bays. Table 12.03 lists the
         options for minor division/divider features. The minimum number of features that
         must be used to define adjacent bays is listed in each building type requirement table.


                                      Table 12.03. Minor Division Features


                              Facade setback: 2'0" min.



                              Recessed area: 2'0" deep by 4'0" wide min.



                              Material



                              Color



                              Roofline*



                              Vertical Linear Element




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)                     Page 156 of 166



                               Entrance Type



                               Number of Stories



                               Any Major Division Feature


         * Roofline variations include parapet wall height, roof overhang distance, flat roof eave thickness,
         fascia, cornice, corbel, and other details. Multiple roofline variations count as one minor division
         feature.


         f. Museum. See “Library/Museum/Post Office.”

    14. “N” Definitions.

         a. “Nonconformance” means a structure, use, lot, or site characteristic that was legally
         constructed or operated prior to the effective date of or amendment to this chapter,
         but that cannot be constructed, platted, or operated after the effective date of or
         amendment to this chapter.

    15. “O” Definitions.

         a. “Occupied space” means interior building space regularly occupied by the building
         users. It does not include storage areas, utility space, or parking.

         b. “Office/professional” means a category of uses for businesses that involve the
         transaction of affairs of a profession, service, industry, or government. Patrons of
         these businesses usually have set appointments or meeting times; the businesses do
         not typically rely on walk-in customers.

         c. “Open space” means a use of land for active or passive, public or private, outdoor
         space, including such uses as parks and town squares. See Section 17-7-11.7. Open
         space uses may also be utilized to host temporary private or community events, such
         as a farmer’s market or art fair. Parking lots are not permitted in open space in any
         district. Open space that incorporates stormwater management on a site or district
         scale is encouraged. Stormwater facilities shall be designed to accommodate
         additional uses, such as an amphitheater or a sports field. Stormwater facilities shall be
         designed not to be fenced and shall not impede public use of the land they occupy. An



        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)              Page 157 of 166


         open space may include small-scale food and beverage service use, no more than two
         hundred square feet in space, located in a kiosk, with no service access. Buildings
         located directly adjacent to an open space use shall treat facades facing this use with
         primary street facade requirements.

         d. Open Space, Minimum Access. This requirement ensures access and visibility for the
         open space. It is described in two ways:

              i. The percentage of the total perimeter that must be adjacent to a public right-of-
              way.

              ii. The minimum number of and/or spacing between access points into the open
              space.

         e. “Open space type” means the permitted and regulated types of open spaces in this
         code. Refer to Section 17-7-11.7, Open Space, for more information and a list of the
         permitted types.

         f. “Open water” means a pond, lake, reservoir, or other water feature with the water
         surface fully exposed.

    16. “P” Definitions.

         a. “Parcel” means a tract of land that is specifically defined in legal terms for both
         taxation and ownership purposes. It is the smallest portion of land that may be defined
         in this way.

         b. “Parking structure, attached” means a structure used solely for the parking of
         vehicles, intended for use by the occupants in an adjacent building on the same lot.
         Parking structures within the buildings are regulated per building type.

         c. “Parking structure, detached” means a shared parking structure owned by the city,
         a parking district, a government agency, or other public entity intended to
         accommodate public and leased parking.

         d. “Pedestrianway” means a pathway designed for use by pedestrians; it can be
         located mid-block allowing pedestrian movement from one street to another without
         traveling along the block’s perimeter.



        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)              Page 158 of 166


         e. “Pervious surface,” also referred to as “pervious material,” means surface or
         material that allows for the absorption of water into the ground or plant material, such
         as permeable pavers or a vegetated roof.

         f. “Police and fire” means facilities providing public safety and emergency services;
         training facilities, locker rooms, and limited overnight accommodations may also be
         included.

         g. Post Office. See “Library/Museum/Post Office.”

         h. “Primary facade courtyard” means a pedestrian-only space that extends from the
         sidewalk into a lot beyond the BTZ setback. Primary facade courtyards are subject to
         the following standards:

              i. Must be freely accessible to the public.

              ii. May not be enclosed with any overhead roof structure or building mass. Shade
              structures are permitted.

              iii. May only be occupied by pedestrian uses. No full-time, part-time, temporary,
              or permanent vehicular uses are permitted.

              iv. Must meet minimum width as defined by building type.

              v. Must be no deeper than one and one-half times the width of the courtyard.

              vi. For interior lots, must have a minimum fifteen feet of fully extended facade on
              either side of the courtyard.

              vii. For corner lots, must be placed at the corner where the two rights-of-way
              intersect. Courtyard width shall be measured along primary street frontage.

         i. “Primary street” means a street designated in the form-based code that receives
         priority over other streets in terms of setting front property lines and locating building
         entrances.

         j. Professional. See “Office/professional.”

         k. “Property line,” also referred to as “lot line,” means a boundary line of a parcel of
         land or lot. Refer to Figure 12.02, Lots.


        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)              Page 159 of 166


         l. “Property line, corner” means a boundary of a lot that is approximately
         perpendicular to the front property line and is directly adjacent to a public right-of-way,
         other than an alley or railroad. Refer to Figure 12.02, Lots.

         m. “Property line, front” means the boundary abutting a right-of-way, other than an
         alley, from which the required setback or build-to zone is measured, with the following
         exceptions:

              i. Corner and through lots that abut a primary street shall have the front property
              line on that primary street.

              ii. Corner and through lots that abut two primary streets or do not abut a primary
              street shall utilize the orientation of the two directly adjacent lots or shall have the
              front property line determined by the community development director.

         n. “Property line, rear” means the boundary of a lot that is approximately parallel to
         the front property line; this line separates lots from one another or separates a lot
         from an alley. Refer to Figure 12.02, Lots.

         o. “Property line, side” means the boundary of a lot that is approximately
         perpendicular to the front and rear property lines; it is not adjacent to the public right-
         of-way. Refer to Figure 12.02, Lots.

    17. “Q” Definitions.

    18. “R” Definitions.

         a. “Residential” means facilities in which people reside. Often called “housing,” this
         includes several different building types and configurations of dwelling units meant for
         individuals and groups of people, such as a family. Units are typically occupied for long
         periods of time and may be leased or owner-occupied.

         b. “Residential care” means a facility offering temporary or permanent lodging to the
         general public consisting of an unlimited number of sleeping rooms with or without in-
         room kitchen facilities. “Residential care” includes such uses as independent and
         assisted living facilities, nursing homes, and residential care homes. Assistance with
         daily activities may be provided for residents. Secondary service uses may also be




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)              Page 160 of 166


         provided, such as restaurants and meeting rooms. Rooms shall be accessed from the
         interior of the building.

         c. “Retail, general” means retail uses occupying a space larger than twelve thousand
         square feet, and engaged in selling goods or merchandise to the general public for
         personal or household consumption and rendering services incidental to the sale of
         such goods, including, but not limited to, convenience stores, department stores,
         grocery stores, hobby shops, etc.

         d. “Retail, neighborhood” means retail uses occupying a space smaller than twelve
         thousand square feet, and engaged in selling goods or merchandise to the general
         public for personal or household consumption and rendering services incidental to the
         sale of such goods, including, but not limited to, convenience stores, department
         stores, grocery stores, hobby shops, etc.

         e. “Right-of-way” means land dedicated or utilized for a street type, trail,
         pedestrianway, utility, railroad, or other similar purpose.

         f. “Roof type” means the detail at the top of a building that finishes a facade, including
         a pitched roof with various permitted slopes and a parapet. Refer to Section 17-7-11.6
         for more information and a list of the permitted roof types.

    19. “S” Definitions.

         a. “Scale” means the relative size of a building, street, sign, or other element of the
         built environment.

         b. “School” means an education facility with classrooms and offices, that may also
         include associated indoor facilities such as ball courts, gymnasium, theater, and food
         service.

         c. “Service, general” means service uses occupying a space larger than twelve
         thousand square feet and are primarily engaged in providing assistance, as opposed to
         products, to individuals, business, industry, government, and other enterprises,
         including, but not limited to, entertainment uses, repair of small goods and electronics
         (not including vehicles), home furniture, restaurants, etc.




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)              Page 161 of 166


         d. “Service, neighborhood” means service uses occupying a space smaller than twelve
         thousand square feet, are primarily engaged in providing assistance, as opposed to
         products, to individuals, business, industry, government, and other enterprises,
         including, but not limited to, entertainment uses, repair of small goods and electronics
         (not including vehicles), home furniture, restaurants, etc. Multiple neighborhood
         service uses can be aggregated in one development.

         e. “Semi-pervious surface,” also referred to as “semi-pervious material,” means
         material that allows for at least forty percent absorption of water into the ground or
         plant material, such as pervious pavers, permeable asphalt and concrete, or gravel.

         f. “Setback” means the horizontal distance from a property line inward, beyond which
         a structure may be placed. Structures or other impervious surfaces are not permitted
         within a setback, unless specifically permitted in this code. Refer to Figure 12.01.

         g. “Sexually oriented business” means nude entertainment businesses, sexually
         oriented outcall services, adult businesses, seminude dancing bars and seminude
         dancing agencies.

         h. “Sign” means an object, device, or structure used to advertise, identify, display,
         direct, or attract attention to an object, person, institution, organization, business,
         product, service, event, or location by such means as words, letters, figures, images,
         designs, symbols, or colors. Flags or emblems of any nation, state, city, or organization;
         works of art which in no way identify a product; and athletic field score boards are not
         considered signs.

         i. “Solar reflectance index (SRI)” means a measure of a constructed surface’s ability to
         reflect solar heat, as shown by a small temperature rise. The measure utilizes a scale
         from zero to one hundred and is defined so that a standard black surface is zero and a
         standard white surface is one hundred. To calculate for a given material, obtain the
         reflectance value and emittance value for the material; calculate the SRI according to
         ASTM E 1980-01 or the latest version.

         j. “Story” means a habitable level within a building measured from finished floor to
         finished floor.




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)              Page 162 of 166


         k. “Story, ground,” also referred to as “ground floor,” means the first floor of a building
         that is level to or elevated above the finished grade on the front and corner facades,
         excluding basements or cellars.

         l. “Story, half” means a story either in the base of the building, partially below grade
         and partially above grade, or a story fully within the roof structure with transparency
         facing the street.

         m. “Story, upper,” also referred to as “upper floor,” means the floors located above
         the ground story of a building.

         n. “Street face” means the facade of a building that faces a public right-of-way.

         o. “Street frontage,” also referred to as “lot frontage,” means the portion of a building
         or lot directly adjacent to a vehicular right-of-way.

         p. “Street type” means the permitted and regulated types of streets in this code. Refer
         to Section 17-7-11.4, Street types, for more information and a list of the permitted
         street types.

         q. “Streetwall” means the vertical plane created by building facades along a street. A
         continuous streetwall occurs when buildings are located in a row next to the sidewalk
         without vacant lots or significant setbacks.

         r. “Structure, accessory” means the general term for a subordinate structure detached
         from but located on the same lot as the principal structure; it may or may not be
         inhabitable.

         s. “Structure, principal,” also referred to as the “principal building,” means a building
         that contains the dominant use of the lot. It is typically located toward the front of the
         lot in the front build-to zone or behind the front yard setback.

         t. “Swale” means a low-lying, naturally planted area with gradual slopes that facilitate
         the transport, absorption, and/or filtration of stormwater.

    20. “T” Definitions.

         a. “Transit station” means a covered passenger boarding and alighting facility for a
         bus or other transit mode.


        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)              Page 163 of 166


         b. Transparency, Minimum Ground Story and Upper Floor. Refer to Figure 12.04,
         Measuring Transparency. The minimum amount of transparency required on street
         facades with street frontage. “Transparency” is any glass in windows and/or doors,
         including any mullions, that is highly transparent with low reflectance.

              i. Ground story transparency, when defined separately from the overall minimum
              transparency, shall be measured between two feet and eight feet from the average
              grade at the base of the front facade.

              ii. A general minimum transparency requirement shall be measured from floor to
              floor of each story.


                                     Figure 12.04. Measuring Transparency




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)              Page 164 of 166


         c. “Tree canopy” means the uppermost area of spreading branches and leaves of a
         tree.

         d. “Tree canopy coverage” means the area of ground covered or shaded by a tree’s
         canopy, measured in square feet.

    21. “U” Definitions.

         a. “Use,” also referred to as “land use,” means a purpose or activity that may occur
         within a building or a lot.

         b. “Use, accessory” means a use customarily incidental and subordinate to the
         principal use or structure and located on the same lot with such principal use or
         structure.

         c. “Use, principal” means the specific, primary purpose for which a lot or building is
         utilized.

         d. “Utility/infrastructure” means a lot that is primarily utilized for the city’s
         infrastructure needs. “Utility/infrastructure” includes such uses as electric or gas
         services, sewage treatment, water treatment and storage, and energy conversion
         systems.

    22. “V” Definitions.

         a. “Visible basement” means a half story partially below grade and partially exposed
         above with required transparency on the street facade.

    23. “W” Definitions.

         a. “Water body” means a body of water, such as a river, pond, or lake, that may be
         manmade or naturally occurring.

    24. “X” Definitions.

    25. “Y” Definitions.

         a. “Yard” means the space on a lot which is unoccupied and unobstructed from the
         ground to the sky by the principal structure. Lots without a structure do not have yard
         designations. Refer to Figure 12.05, Yards.


        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 165 of 166


          b. “Yard, corner side” means a yard extending from the corner side building facade
          along a corner side property line between the front yard and rear property line. Refer
          to Figure 12.05, Yards.

          c. “Yard, front” means a yard extending from the front facade of the principal
          structure along the full length of the front property line, between the side property
          lines or side and corner side property lines. Refer to Figure 12.05, Yards.

          d. “Yard, rear” means a yard extending from the rear building facade along the rear
          property line between the side yards or, on a corner lot, the corner side and side yards.
          Refer to Figure 12.05, Yards.

          e. “Yard, side” means a yard extending from the side building facade along a side
          property line between the front yard and rear property line. Refer to Figure 12.05,
          Yards.


                                                     Figure 12.05. Yards




     26. “Z” Definitions.


(Ord. 2021-08 § 1 (Att. A); Ord. 2020-04 § 1 (Att. A (part)))




         The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-11, Main Street Form-Based Code (MS-FBC)               Page 166 of 166




The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3,
2024.

Disclaimer: The city clerk’s office has the official version of the Midvale Municipal Code. Users
should contact the city clerk’s office for ordinances passed subsequent to the ordinance cited
above.

City Website: www.midvalecity.org

Hosted by General Code.




         The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2024-31, passed December 3, 2024.
