MIDVALE, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2026-0-15
AN ORDINANCE MODIFYING SETBACK EXCEPTIONS IN VARIOUS SECTIONS
OF TITLE 17 BASED ON CHANGES IN THE UTAH STATE CODE FROM H.B. 476 IN
THE 2024 GENERAL SESSION.
WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated Sections 10-8-84 and 10-20-501 through
10-20-503, Midvale City (“the City”) has authority to make and amend any regulation of or
within zoning districts or any other provision of the land use ordinance to promote the prosperity,
improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, convenience, and aesthetics of the
municipality; and
WHEREAS, on January 2, 2002, the Midvale City Zoning Orditiance, Title 17 of the
Midvale Municipal Code (the “Code”), became effective and is subject to amendments from time
to time pursuant to Section 17-3-1 the Code; and i ty \
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 16-04-010 of the Code, the City desires to promote the
protection of public health, life and safety; protect the character and socie a economic
stability of all parts of the city; protect and preserve the value of land throug out the
municipality; guide public and private policy and action; establish responsible standards; prevent
pollution and degradation of air, streams, and ponds; preserve the natural beauty and topography;
and provide for open spaces through the most effect design and layout of the land; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 17-1-1 of the Code, the City desires to promote
coordinated development, redevelopment, effective use of land, and site planning; protect and
promote public safety, health, and general welfare by providing adequate light and air, water and
sewage control, police, fire and wetlands protection; and secure economy in governmental
expenditures; and
WHEREAS, the City Council has considered the impact the proposed ordinance may
have on family health, stability and formation; and
WHEREAS, the City desires to modify setback exceptions in various sections of Title 17
based on changes in the Utah State Code from H.B. 476 in the 2024 General Session; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on May 13, 2026, to review
the request for amendment and, after considering all the information received, made a
recommendation to approve the amendment request to the City Council; and
WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on June 2,
2026; and

WHEREAS, after taking into consideration citizen testimony, planning analysis, and the
Planning Commission’s recommendation as part of its deliberations, the City Council finds it is
appropriate and within the best interest of the City to make changes to the Code.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah
as follows:
Section 1. The following sections of the Midvale Municipal Code are hereby amended
as included in the following attachments to this document:
e Attachment A: Modifying setback exceptions in various sections of Title 17 based
on changes in the Utah State Code from H.B. 476 in the 2024 General Session.
Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect upon the date of first publication.
PASSED AND APPROVED this 2" day of June, 2026.
y STAr
oy tain On
et sory 1.09 * Dustin Gettel, Mayor
fo, oy
RPORATE a
ATTEST: Voting by City Council “Aye” “Nay”
Bonnie Billings um
\ Paul Glover — a
(——__ Heidi Robinson eal
Rok. Andreason, MMC Bryant Brown —
City Recorder Denece Mikolash ott
Date of first publication: Joy uf LOU

Attachment A:

Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-2, Definitions Page 1of 3
17-2-2 “B" definitions.
“Building coverage” means the maximum horizontal area within the outer perimeter of the
building walls, dividers, or columns at ground level or above, whichever is the greater area,
including, without limitation, courts and exterior stairways, but excluding:
| A. Uncovered decks, landings, porches, patios, terraces, and stairways all less than thirty
inches high; and
B. The outer four feet of completely open, uncovered, cantilevered balconies that have a
minimum of eight feet vertical clearance below.
“Building footprint” means the total area of the foundation of the structure, or the furthest
| exterior wall of the structure projected to natural grade, not including stairs, landings, patios,
and decks.
17-2-7 “G" definitions.
“Gross floor area” means the area of a building including all enclosed areas designed for human
| occupation. “Gross floor area” does not include unenclosed porches, landings, balconies, patios
and decks, vent shafts, courtyards or garages, up to a maximum floor area of six hundred
square feet.
17-2-8 “H" definitions.
| “Hardscape” means patios, landings, decks and paths. Does not include driveways and
sidewalks.
The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2026-08, passed March 23, 2026.

Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-2, Definitions Page 2of 3
17-2-9 “I” definitions.
“Impervious surface” means and includes all buildings or structures measured at their greatest
| extent and so as to include areas overhung by eaves, balconies, landings, decks and other
projecting features of the structure; also all paved or otherwise hard-surfaced areas such as
roads, curbs and gutters, walks, parking lots and loading areas, and asphalt or concrete aprons
for solid waste containers, signs or outdoor mechanical equipment.
17-2-12 “L” definitions.
“Landing” means the same as the term is defined in Section 10-20-623 of the Utah Code
Annotated, as amended.
“Lot coverage” means the maximum area of a lot which may be occupied by a structure. Lot
| coverage is expressed as a ratio. Arcades, open porches, landings, decks, terraces, and stoops
are excluded from the calculation.
17-2-16 “P” definitions.
“Porch” means an open-air room appended to the mass of a building with a floor and roof, but
no walls on at least two sides.
| Porch, walkout. See “Walkout porch.”
17-2-19 “S” definitions.
“Site cover” means the area covered by an impervious surface such as a structure, deck,
| landing, porch, pool, parking lot, patio, walk, or driveway.
The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2026-08, passed March 23, 2026.

Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-2, Definitions Page 30f 3
17-2-23 “W”" definitions.
‘Walkout porch” means the same as the term is defined in Section 10-20-623 of the Utah Code
Annotated, as amended.
“Window well” means the same as the term is defined in Section 10-20-623 of the Utah Code
Annotated, as amended.

The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2026-08, passed March 23, 2026.

Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-1, Single Family Residential Zone (SF-1) Page 1 of 6
17-7-1.2.1 Specific review criteria for certain allowed uses.
[...]
F. Flag Lot. Each application for new subdivision of a flag lot or for new development on a flag
lot shall demonstrate that the application complies with the following criteria:
1. LotArea. The minimum area of the banner portion of the proposed flag lot is seven-
theusand7,000 square feet and the minimum area of the remaining frontage lot is sever
theusand7,000 square feet;
2. Lot Width and Depth. The minimum banner portion width and depth is-seventy-five75
feet. The minimum lot width and depth of the frontage lot complies with all lot standards
for the zone;
| 3. Setbacks. Setbacks for new development on a flag lot are fifteen-15 feet for each of the
front side and rear yards. New development on a flag lot is entitled to the same yard
exceptions as a frontage lot, with the rear yard lot line of the frontage lot serving as the
front yard lot line for the banner portion of the flag lot;
| 4. Height. The maximum proposed height for a structure is #vent-five25 feet;
5. Stories. A structure shall not exceed one story;
6. Parking/Driveway Access. Each flag lot and each frontage lot shall provide two parking
spaces on the side or rear yard of property. The driveway shall have a paved width of
| twenty20 feet;
7. Fire Department Access and Water Supply. Each dwelling must adhere to the fire code;
and |
8. Utilities. Both the flag lot dwelling and the frontage lot dwelling must be serviced by a
public water and sewer system.
The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2026-08, passed March 23, 2026.

Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-1, Single Family Residential Zone (SF-1) Page 2of 6
Table 17-7-1.3. Minimum Flag Lot Development Standards
Build-To
Area Frontage .
Line
Standard | 7,000s.f. | 75' 75' 20' Front: 15' N/A 25' to
for Banner midpoint
Portion sie 15
Rear: 15'
No No No Projections: | N/A No
| < 3242!
Front: 5'
paved walk
Front/Side:
20' paved
drive
Side/Rear:
Stabsand
3See text in.
MMC
17-7-1.4(A)
Lea]
17-7-1.4 Development standards.
The following development standards apply to all new development in the zone:
A. Setbacks. The minimum setbacks in the zone are as follows:
The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2026-08, passed March 23, 2026.

Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-1, Single Family Residential Zone (SF-1) Page 3of 6
1. Front. The minimum front yard setback is 30thirty feet. If fifa-percent50% or more of
the lots on the block are developed with a front yard setback of twenty-five25 feet or less,
the front yard setback shall be 20twenty feet.

a. Corner Lot Rule. Corner lots have two front yards.

b. Exceptions. The following exceptions apply to all front yard setbacks in the zone:
i. Front Porch. An open, front entry porch may encroach eight feet into the front
yard setback.

ii. Projections. Sills, cornices, chimneys, flues, eaves and ornamental features may
project into the front yard up to two and one-half feet. Window wells required b
the International Residential or Building Code may project into the front yard.
iii. Impervious Surfaces. A driveway with a width of twenty 20 feet or forty
percent40% of the lot frontage, whichever is greater, and a sidewalk of up to five
feet in width from the driveway or street to the front door. The driveway may

| extend an additional 10ten feet in width behind the sidewalk.

2. Side. The minimum side yard setback is eight feet, subject to the following exceptions:
a. Projection. Sills, cornices, chimneys, flues, eaves, and ornamental features may
project into the side yard up to three feet. Window wells required by the International
Residential or Building Code may project into the side yard.

b. Stairs and Landings. Outside stairways and landings required by the building code

for exterior doorways may project into the side yard up to three feet.

c. Single Family Attached Structure. In the case of a preexisting single family attached
structure, the structure shall be exempt from the interior side yard setback.

d. Attached Single-Car Garages and Carports. In the case where an existing single family
residence has an attached garage or carport that accommodates less than two cars
because of its width, the garage or carport may be extended to the side yard property
line, as well as toward the rear yard at the same setback as the existing structure,
provided the following items are satisfied. (For purposes of this provision, “existing” is
defined as structures built before the adoption of this provision):

The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2026-08, passed March 23, 2026.

Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-1, Single Family Residential Zone (SF-1) Page 4of 6
i. The extended structure area is for a garage use only; the encroachment into the
side yard setback cannot be used as habitable space.

ii. The extended structure shall not exceed one story, and shall not extend above
the roofline of the existing residential structure.
iii. The width of the garage or carport shall not exceed twenty-four24 feet.
iv. The depth of the garage or carport shall not exceed twenty-four24 feet or the
depth of the existing garage or carport, whichever is greater. The existing depth of
the garage shall not include storage areas or additions that are outside the
existing roofline of the garage.
v. The extended structure shall contain no openings on the side contiguous to the
property line and no drainage from the roof shall be discharged onto an adjacent
property.
vi. Proof of licensed survey identifying the property line adjacent to the extended
structure and assurance that the extended structure will not be constructed on
any designated utility easement(s).
vii. All fire and building code provisions that address structures, their features
and siting shall be addressed.
viii. This exception is intended to provide a property owner of an older home with
an attached single-car garage or carport the ability to have a standard attached
two-car garage or carport where it otherwise would not be allowed because of the
eight-foot side yard setback.
ix. All new home construction shall comply with the eight-foot side yard setback.
This includes situations where the existing house is demolished and replaced with
a new structure.
| 3. Rear. The minimum rear yard setback is 15fifteen feet, subject to the following
exceptions:
a. Corner Lot Rule. On corner lots, there is no rear yard.
The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2026-08, passed March 23, 2026.

Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-1, Single Family Residential Zone (SF-1) Page Sof 6
b. Projection. Sills, cornices, chimneys, flues, eaves and ornamental features may
project into the rear yard up to two and one-half feet. Window wells may project into
the rear yard setback.

é
forexteriordoornways may project inte the rear yard up to three feet.Landing, Walkout
Porch or Stairs. A landing, walkout porch, or stairs that are used for ingress to and
egress from the rear of the residential dwelling are limited to 32 square feet in size.
Stairs in combination with a landing or a walkout porch are limited to 32 square feet in
total area.
Table 17-7-1.4. Minimum Lot and Development Standards
Frontage Build-To
Line
Standards | 7,000 | 55' 55! Front: 30', 20' if 50% of | 30' 28'
Bf front yards < 25' pitched
LY}
> 50% of rast
Side: 8' (40' accessory front
structure w/live elevation 25' flat
animals) must be <3' | roof
from build-to
Rear: 15' (40' accessory line
structure w/live
animals)
Lot Accessory structure:
Minimum 6' from main
dwelling, 2' rear and
side yard—
See See 80'if | 45'on Projections: < 3' N/A for No
text text width | cul-de-sac cul-de-sac lot
Front: 20' paved drive,
> 82' plus add'l 10' behind
| sidewalk, 5' paved walk,
porch < 8'
The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2026-08, passed March 23, 2026.

Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-1, Single Family Residential Zone (SF-1) Page 6of 6
Side/Rear: Stairsand
single-car garages and
earports;sSee textin
MMC 17-7-1.4(A)
Corner lot: 2 front, 2
side, 0 rear
Accessory Structure:
See text_in MMC
17-7-1.8(©)

[esl

The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2026-08, passed March 23, 2026.

Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-2, Single Family Residential Zone (SF-2) Page 1 of 6
17-7-2.2.1 Specific review criteria for certain allowed uses.
Leal
F. Flag Lot. Each application for new subdivision of a flag lot or for new development on a flag
lot shall demonstrate that the application complies with the following criteria:
1. Lot Area. The minimum area of the banner portion of the proposed flag lot is five
thousand5s,000 square feet** and the minimum area of the remaining frontage lot is sevea-
thousand7,000 square feet;
2. Lot Width and Depth. The minimum banner portion width and depth is sixty-five65**
feet. The minimum lot width and depth of the frontage lot comply with all lot standards for
the zone;
| 3. Setbacks. Setbacks for new development on a flag lot are fifteen-15 feet for each of the
front side and rear yards. New development on a flag lot is entitled to the same yard
exceptions as a frontage lot with the rear yard lot line of the frontage lot serving as the
front yard lot line for the banner portion of the flag lot;
| 4. Height. The maximum proposed height for a structure is twenty-five25 feet;
5. Stories. A structure shall not exceed one story;
6. Parking/Driveway Access. Each flag lot and each frontage lot shall provide two parking
spaces on the side or rear yard of property. The driveway shall have a paved width of
| twenty20 feet;
7. Fire Department Access and Water Supply. Each dwelling must adhere to the fire code; |
and
8. Utilities. Both the flag lot dwelling and the frontage lot dwelling must be serviced by a
public water and sewer system.
The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2026-08, passed March 23, 2026.

Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-2, Single Family Residential Zone (SF-2) Page 2 of 6
Table 17-7-1.3. Minimum Flag Lot Development Standards
Build-To
Area Frontage | Setbacks .
Line
FLAG** Standard 5,000 s.f. | 65' 65' 20' Front: 10' N/A 25' to
for Banner midpoint
Portion Side:'t0
Rear: 10'
No No No Projections: | N/A No
| < 3242!
Front: 5'
paved walk
Front/Side:
20' paved
drive
Side/Rear:
Stairsand
balance
3'See text in.
MMC
17-7-2.4(A)
[...]
17-7-2.4 Development standards.
The following development standards apply to all new development in the zone:
A. Setbacks. The minimum setbacks in the zone are as follows:
1. Front. The minimum front yard setback is twenty-five25 feet. If fife-percent50% or more
of the lots on the block are developed with a front yard setback of twenty 20 feet, the front
yard setback shall be twenty20 feet.
The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2026-08, passed March 23, 2026.

Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-2, Single Family Residential Zone (SF-2) Page 30f 6
a. Corner Lot Rule. Corner lots have two front yards.
b. Exceptions. The following exceptions apply to all front yard setbacks in the zone:
i. Front Porch. An open, front entry porch may encroach eight feet into the front
yard setback.
ii. Projections. Skylights, sills, cornices, chimneys, flues, eaves, and ornamental
features may project into the front yard up to two and one-half feet. Window wells
required by the International Residential or Building Code may project into the
front yard.
iii. Impervious Surfaces. A driveway with a width of tventy20 feet or fortypercent
40% of the lot frontage, whichever is greater, and a sidewalk of up to five feet in
width from the driveway or street to the front door. The driveway may extend an
| additional ten-10 feet in width behind the sidewalk.
2. Side. The minimum side yard setback is five feet, subject to the following exceptions:
a. Projection. Skylights, sills, cornices, chimneys, flues, eaves, —and ornamental
features may project into the side yard up to three feet. Window wells required by the
International Residential or Building Code may project into the side yard.
b. Stairs and Balconies. Outside stairways and balconies may project into the side yard
up to three feet.
c. Single Family Attached Structure. In the case of a pre-existing single family attached
structure, the structure shall be exempt from the interior side yard setback.
d. Attached Single-Car Garages and Carports. In the case where an existing single family
residence has an attached garage or carport that accommodates less than two cars
because of its width, the garage or carport may be extended to the side yard property
line, as well as toward the rear yard at the same setback as the existing structure,
provided the following items are satisfied. (For purposes of this provision, “existing” is
defined as structures built before the adoption of this provision):
i. The extended structure area is for a garage use only; the encroachment into the
side yard setback cannot be used as habitable space.
The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2026-08, passed March 23, 2026.
