                               MIDVALE CITY, UTAH
                              ORDINANCE NO. 2026-0-0I

 AN ORDINANCE AMENDING MIDVALE MUNICIPAL CODE CHAPTER 7.04
                  EMERGENCYABATEMENT

       WHEREAS, the Fifth Amendment of the United States Constitution provides that
"No person shall [.. .] be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without the due process of
law;" and

      WHEREAS, Article I, Section 7 of the Utah Constitution Iikewise provides that
'No person shall be deprived of life, liberty or property, without the due process of law;"
and

       WHEREAS, Midvale City is authorized to exercise police power under Utah
Code Ann. $ l0-8-84 and "pass all ordinances and rules, and make all regulations, not
repugnant to law, necessary for carrying into effect or discharging all powers and duties
conferred by this chapter, and as are necessary and proper to provide for the safety and
preserve the health, and promote the prosperity, improve the morals, peace and good
order, comfort, and convenience ofthe city and its inhabitants, and for the protection of
property in the city;" and

       WHEREAS, Midvale City is authorized to abate nuisances under Utah Code Ann
I l0-8-60 and $$ l0-ll-l to 4; and

      WHEREAS, the City Council has previously adopted Midvale Municipal Code
Chapter 7.04 Emergency Abotement which provides the process for the City to complete
an emergency abatement; and

      WHf,REAS, the City Council desires Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 7.04
Emergency Abatement to comply with the due process constitutional requirements
provided by the United States and Utah Constitutions; and

       WHEREAS, the United States and Utah Supreme Courts have held that due
process requires notice, the opportunity to be heard, and a decision by a neutral decision
maker; and

        WHEREAS, this amendment will provide notice, an opportunity to be heard, and
a decision by a neutral decision maker when the City exercises its authority to complete
an emergency abatement.

       NOW, THERLFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City,
Utah, as follows:
      Section 1. Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 7 .04 Emergency Abatement is
amended as provided in Attachment A.

       Section 2. This ordinance is effective upon publication in accordance with
Section l0-3-71I ofthe Utah Code.


         PASSED AND APPROVED this 6th day of January,2O26.


                                                        Midvale


                                                        By:
                                                              Dustin Gettel, Mayor

                       (\ 1 STA ,€
                       C                   4.,
lsEALl                                       o       VorrNG:
                  o                           a      Bonnie Billings      Yea      Nay _
                  2
                           ,tn.v t. tgdr         t   Paul Glover          Yea ".2-
                                                                              i,,/ Nay _
                   I
                                                     Heidi Robinson       Yea ,/     Nay _
                               R                     Bryant Brown         Yea __12 Nay _
                                                     Denece Mikolash      Yea _tZ Nay _

ATTEST:



     L. Andreason,         MC
City Recorder

Published this
                 7&day of January, 2026, onthe Utah Public Notice Website.
Midvale N/unicipal Code Chapter 7.04, Emergency Abatement                                             Page 1 of 3




                                             chapter 7.04
                                   EMERGENCY ABATEMENT

Sections:
  7.04.010        Emergency abatement.
  7.O4.O20        Procedures.




7.04.010 Emergencyabatement.
A. Whenever the director determines that an imminent life safety hazard exists in accordance
with the lnternational Building Code, lnternational Residential Code and/or the lnternational
Fire Code that requires immediate correction or elimination, the director shall exercise the
following powers without prior notice to the responsible person:

    1. Orderthe immediate vacation of anytenants, and prohibit occupancyuntil all repairs
    are completed;

    2. Post the premises as unsafe, substandard, or dangerous;
    3. Board, fence, or secure the building or site;
    4. Raze and grade that portion of the building or site to prevent further collapse, and
    remove any hazard to the general public;

    5. Make any minimal emergency repairs as necessary to eliminate any imminent life safety
    hazard; or

    6. Take any other action appropriate to eliminate the emergency.

B. The director may, based on probable cause, enter property without a search warrant or
court order to accomplish the above-listed acts.

C. The director shall pursue on ly the minimum level of correction orabatement necessaryto
eliminate the immediary of an imminent life safety hazard. Costs incurred by the city during the




            The Ny'idvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2025-12, passed June 17, 2025
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 7.04, Emergency Abatement                                           Page 2 of 3


emergency abatement process shall be assessed and recovered against the responsible
person. (Or d. 8/27 /20024 (pa rt))




7.O4.O2O Procedures.
A. Upon commencing an emergency abatement, the City shall serve a notice of emergency
abatement to the responsible person as soon as practicably possible, but no later than ten
calendar days from starting the emergency abatement. Such notice shall include a description
of the imminent life safety hazard.

B. The director may also pursue any other administrative or judicial remedy to abate any
remaining violations.

C. After an emergency abatement, the City shall serve a notice of itemized bill for costs to the
responsible person for the abatement action taken. This notice shall be served within ten days
of completion of the abatement.

D. The responsible person has the right to an administrative enforcement hearing concerning
the emergency abatement and the itemized billing. A separate written request for a hearing
shall be in writing and shall be filed for each notice being appealed within ten calendar days
from the date of service of the specified notice. The request shall comply with the requirements
in Section 7.02.02 for requesting an administrative enforcement hearing. Failure to request an
administrative enforcement hearing as provided herein shall constitute a waiver to an
administrative enforcement hearing and a waiver to the right of appeal for the specified notice.

E. The City may continue to abate the imminent life safety hazard, even upon receiving a
written request for a hearing, until the director determines that the imminent life safety hazard
has been abated or corrected, or there is an order from the hearing officer ordering the City to
stop its abatement of the imminent life safety hazard. (ord.8/27/20024 (part))




The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2025-12, passed lune 17,2O25.



           The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2025-12, passed June 17,2025.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 7.04, Emergency Abatement                                          Page 3 of 3


Disclaimer: The city clerk's office has the officialversion of the Midvale Municipal Code. Users
should contact the city clerk's office for ordinances passed subsequent to the ordinance cited
above.

City Website: www. midvalecity.org

Hosted by General Code.




          The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2025-12, passed June 17, 2025
