                                  ORDINANCE NO. 2026-0-02

AN ORDINANCE AMENDINC SECTION 17-7-II.I1 OF THE MIDVALE CITY
MUNICIPAL CODE TO ALLOW FOTI REBUILDING OF NON-CONFORMIN(;
STRUCTURES

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated Sections l0-8-84 and l0-20-501 through
l0-20-503, Midvale City ("the City") has authority to make and amend any regulation of or
within zoning districts or any other provision ofthe land use ordinance to promote the prosperity.
improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, convenience, and aesthetics olthe
municipality; and

        WHEREAS, on January 2,2002,the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance, Title l7 of the
Midvale City Municipal Code (the "Code"), became effective and is subject to amendments from
time to time pursuant to Section I 7-3- I the Code; and

         WHEREAS, pursuant to Section l6-01-010 of the Code, the City desires to promote the
protection ofpublic health, life and safety; protect the character and social and economic
stability ofall parts ofthe city; protect and preserve the value ofland throughout the
municipality; guide public and private policy and action; establish responsible standards; prevent
pollution and degradation ofair, streams, and ponds; preserve the natural beauty and topography;
and provide for open spaces through the most effective design and layout ofthe land;

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Section I 7- | - | of the Code, the City desires to promote
coordinated development, redevelopment, etTective use ofland, and site planning; protect and
promote public safety, health, and general welfare by providing adequate light and air, water and
sewage control, police, fire and wetlands protection; and secure economy in govemmental
expenditures; and

      WHEREAS, the City desires to amend Section 17-7-ll.l I of the Midvale City
Municipal Code entitled Administration of the Main Street Form Based Code with respect to
non-conform ing structures; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on December 10, 2025, to
review the request for amendments and, after considering all the information received, made a
recommendation to approve the amendment request to the City Council; and

       WHEREAS, the City Councilof Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on January 6,
2026: and

       WHEREAS, after taking into consideration citizen testimony, planning analysis, and the
Planning Commission's recommendation as part of its deliberations, the City Council finds it is
appropriate and within the best interest ofthe City to make changes to the Code.

       NOw, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City. LJtah
as tbllows:
       Section l. The flollowing section of the Midvale City Municipal Code is hereby
       amended as included in the attachment to this document:

           .    Attachment A: Amending Section l7-7- l I . I I

       Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect upon the date offirst publication.

       PASStrD AND APPROVED rhis 6'h day oI Jan uary,2026.

                                { STA ,6
                          <'
                                              o
                                                   I) ust in   l, Mayor
                     s                         t
                     ,         JUtv t. tgdl   t
ATTEST:
                      t                            Voting by City Council               "Nuy"
                                                                              ,/
                                     ATE           Bonnie Billings
                                                                            --v-
                                                   Paul Glover
                                                                            --v-
R               n,
                                                   Heidi Robinson
                                                   Bryant Brown
                                                                            --7
C ty Recorder                                      Denece Mikolash            ,/
Date of first publication: f     -a'Z-?
   Attachment A:




(Page l€R blank intentionally)
Midvale [,lunicipal Code Section 17-7-1 1 ,'] 1, Administration                                Page 1 of 6




17-7-11.11 Administration.
A. 5eneral Requirements
     1. lntent. This chapter intends to promote public health, safety, and general welfare ofthe
     community, reflecting the goals established within the general plan of Midvale City and the
     Main Street small area plan. This chapter intends to increase conformity to the greatest
     extent possible.

B. Scope of Regulotions

     1. New Development All development, construction, and establishment of uses within the
     lim its of this chapter occurring after the effective date of this chapter shall be subject to all
     applicable regu lations of this chapter.

     2. Renovoted Structures. All building renovations affecting a change of use greater than
     twenty-five percent gross square footage of a structu re within the limits of this chapter
     shall be subject to all applicable regulations of this chapter.

     3. ln-Process Development- Where a building permit for a development has been applied
     for in accordance with the prior law in advance ofthe effective date of this chapter, said
     development may comply with the plans from which the permit was approved and, upon
     completion, receive a certificate of occupancy (provided all conditions are met) provided
     the following requirements are satisfied:

          a. Work or construction is begu n within one year of the effective date of this chapter;
          and

          b. Work or construction continues diligently toward completion
     4. Nonconformorce. After the effective date of this chapter, existing buildings and uses that
     do not comply with the regulations of this chapter shall be considered nonconforming and
     are subject to the standards of this chapter.

          a. Generol Provisions
                i. Permissions.


        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2025-15, passed September 2, 2025
Midvale Municipal Code Section 1 7-7-l 1 . ? 1, Administration                                 Page 2 of 5


                     (A) Any nonconforming lot, use. structure, or sign that was lavufully
                     established before the FBC was implemented may continue as long as the
                     nonconformity remains legal and complies with all other FBC nonconformity
                     req uirements.

               ii. Administrotion
                     (A) Any rights conferred on a nonconformity remain with the property and
                     are not affected by changes in tenancy or ownership.

                     (B) The burden of establishing the existence of a conformity prior to the FBC
                     implementation is on the applicant.

                     (C) Determinations about the existence of a legal nonconformity shall be
                     made by the community development director.

               iii. Limitotions
                     (A) Any lot, use, structure, or sign that was illegal prior to implementation of
                     the form-based code remains illegal if it does not conform to the form-based
                     code.

                     (B) Nonconformity regulations apply to all projects that were submitted for
                     approval before implementation of the form-based code. All projects
                     submitted after implementation of the form-based code shall meet the
                     requirements of the form-based code.

                     (C) lf any portion of the form-based code is judged invalid by a jurisdictional
                     court, that judgement shall not affect the remaining portions of the form-
                     based code.

               iv. Uses.
                     (A) Permissions.

                           (1) An existing nonconforming use may be extended to the entire floor
                           area of the building it is located in.

                           (2) Structures containing nonconforming uses may be altered according
                           to the requirements of the form-based code.

        The Midvale Municipal code is current through ordinance 2025 15, passed september 2, 2025
Midvale Municipal Code Section 17 7 1 1.1 1, Administration                                     Page 3 of 5



                         (3) lf a structure containing a nonconforming use is damaged or
                         destroyed, the nonconforming use may be reestablished at the same
                         scale as it operated prior to the destructive event.

                    (B) Limitotions

                         (1) Nonconforming uses may be expanded to additional parcels
                         provided, however, the building into which the use expands otherwise
                         fully complies with the form-based code.

                         (2) An existing nonconfonning use may not be changed to a different
                         nonconforming use.

                         (3) lf a nonconforming use is abandoned, any future use shall be a
                         conforming use. When a nonconforming use transitions to a conforming
                         use, it shall not be changed back to any nonconforming use.

               v. Structures.
                    (Al Permissions.

                         (1) Nonconforming structures may be altered ifl

                              (aF-the alteration is required by law to restore the structure to a safe
                                   conditioni=

                              (b) the alte ation eliminates a non conform itv and does n t exDand a
                                                                n

                              f.l t h       rnati nt                rf   ti

                         (2) Nonconforming structures may be @
                         the following conditions are met e.l+ere{i€€:

                              (a) @the                                        use of the nonconforming
                                structure is allowed under Section 17-7-1 1 .3;

                              (b) Eliminates a nen€enfermiq he building footprint of the rebuilt or




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2025-'15, passed september 2, 2025
[.4idvale Municipal Code Section 17-7'1 1 .1 1, Administration                                  Page 4 of 6



                                                                           Ttn   tn
                                Chapter originally took effect; and

                               (c) -the expanded or reb
                               the aesthetics of the original nonconforming structure or is in
                                conformance with the reouirements of Section 1 7-7-1 1.6 Dees-n€t
                               @




                          P+epe*)c

                          (43) ln the event of damage or destruction to a nonconforming structure
                          which is damaged or destroyed by fire, eanhquake, or other calamity
                          beyond the control of the owner, the building may be reconstructed or
                          repaired to the conditions which existed prior to the casualty, provided
                          the structure or structures existed as legally established structures. All
                          such construction or repairs shall be started within twelve months from
                          the date of damage and shall be diligently pursued to completion.

                          (54) Existing nonconforming structure facades may be altered if the
                          modifications do not increase the amount of nonconformity.

                     (Bl Limitotions

                          (1) lf a nonconforming structure is damaged or destroyed, all permits for
                          rebuilding, restoration, or repair must be granted within one year of the
                          damage or destruction. lf the applicant requests an extension, the
                          community development director may Srant no more than one extension,
                          not to exceed one year in length.

                          (2) lf a nonconforming structure is relocated, the structure shall fully
                          comply with the current zoning regulations of the parcel to which it is
                          moved.


         The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2025-15, passed September 2, 2025
N,lidvale N.4unicipal Code Section 17-7-1 1 .'1 l, Administration                                 Page 5 of 6


                           (3) lf all required permits for the rebuilding, restoration, or repair of a
                            damaged or destroyed nonconforming structure are not granted within
                            one year of the damage or destruction, and no extension period is
                           granted, the structure may be rebuilt, restored, or repaired only if it
                           conforms to the requirements of the form-based code.

        5. Exempt Activities. The activities within this section are exempt from the requirements of
        this chapter. Building permits may still be required under the building code for actions
        taken in accordance with this section.

            a   Ordinary repairs for the purpose of regular building, signage, lighting or site
            maintenance

            b. Replacement of existing windows, doors, or fixtures that do not change the
            transparency percentage of the building.

            c. lnterior construction that does not result in change of use and is not visible from
            the exterior of the building.

            d. Emergenry repairs ordered by any city official in order to protect health and safety.
        6. Appeols.

            a. All city decisions which interpret or administer this chapter may be appealed to the
            planning commission within ten days of final action by filing notice of appeal with the
            community and economic development department.

            b. Followingfinal action by the plann ing com mission, any person with standing to
            challenge the decision may, within ten days of the final action, appeal the decision to
            the appeal authority following the process defined in Section 17-3-14.

        7. Any state or federal regulations that apply within the form-based code area, and are in
        conflict with form-based code regulations, shall supersede the form-based code
        regu lations.

C. Minor Modificdtions to o Site Plon.fhe community development director may approve minor
modifications to an approved site plan. lvlodifications may be evaluated through a letter of
application and the provision of the reasoning behind the request. Such requests may be made
fo r:


           The Midvale Municipal Code is current through ordinance 2025-15, passed september 2, 2025
N/idvale Municipal Code Section 17-7-1 1 .'l 1 , Administration                                 Page 6 of 6


     1- Minor modifications to proposed landscaping plans, pursuant to the modification
     standards established.

     2. Minor modifications to buildings, including setbacks and materials, pursuant to the
     modifi cation standards.

          a. Building materials that reflect the intent of the original material.
          b. The city may modify the requirements of this chapter where full compliance is
          impossible due to the existing site or building conditions.

     3. Minor modifications to parking requirements, pursuant to the development of an
     alternative parking plan. (ord.2020-04 5 1 (Att. A))




The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2025-15, passed September 2,
2025.

Disclaimer: The city clerk's office has the official version of the Midvale Municipal Code. Users
should contact the city clerk's office for ordinances passed subsequent to the ordinance cited
above.

City Website: www.midvalecitv.org

Hosted bv General Code.




         The Midvale Municipal Code is €urrent through Ordinance 2025-15, passed SePtember 2, 2025
