                                    MIDVALE, UTAII
                                 ORDINANCE NO. 2026.0-I 6

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TABLE 17-7-I2.IO OP THE REGIONAL
COMMERCIAL ZONE TO INCREASE THE ALLOWED PERCENTAGE FOR
CHANGEABLE COPY SIGNS AND ADOPT SPECIFIC CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN
REGULATIONS IN SECTION 17 -7 -I2.IO.

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated Sections l0-8-84 and l0-20-501 through
l0-20-503, Midvale City ("the City") has authority to make and amend any regulation of or
within zoning districts or any other provision ofthe land use ordinance to promote the prosperity,
improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, convenience, and aesthetics ofthe
municipality; and

        WHEREAS, on January 2, 2002, rhe Midvale City Zoning Ordinance, Title I 7 of the
Midvale Municipal Code (the "Code"), became effective and is subject to amendments from time
to time pursuant to Section l7-3-l the Code; and

         WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 16.01.010 of the Code, the City desires to promote the
protection ofpublic health, life and safety; protect the character'and social and.qconomic
stability olall parts ofthe city: protect and preserve the valug'of land throughout the
municipality: guide public and privale policl and action: es$blish responsible stahdards: prevent
pollution and degradation of air, streams, and ponds; preser!e the natural beauty.aird topography;
and provide for open spaces through the most effect design 4rtd layout ofthe landf and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Section l7-l-l of the coa.,'th*-city ddsir.,p,ni'p.o.ote
coordinated development, redevelopment, effective use of land. anilsite planning: protect and
promote public safety, health, and general welfare by providing adequate light and air, water and
sewage control, police, fire and wetlands protection; and secure economy in govemmental
expenditures; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council has considered the impact the proposed ordinance may
have on family heatth, stability and formation; and

       WHEREAS, the City desires to amend Table 17-7-12.10 of the Regional Commercial
Zone to increase the allowed percentage for changeable copy signs and adopt specific
changeable copy sign regulations in Section 17-7-12.10; and

       WHER-EAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on April22,2026, to
review the request for amendment and, after considering all the information received, made a
recommendation to deny the amendment request to the City Council; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on June 2,
2026; and
       WHER-EAS, after taking into consideration citizen testimony, planning analysis, and the
Planning Commission's recommendation as part of its deliberations, the City Council finds it is
appropriate and within the best interest ofthe City to make changes to the Code.

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE lT ORDAINED by the City Council olMidvale City, Utah
as fbllows:

        Section l. The following sections of the Midvale Municipal Code are hereby amended
        as included in the following attachments to this document:

                Attachment A: Amending Table 17-7-l2.lO of the Regional Commercial Zone to
                increase the allowed percentage for changeable copy signs and adopt specific
                changeable copy sign regulations in Section 17-7-12.lO.

        Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect upon the date offirst publication.

        PASSED A-NID APPROVED this 2"d day of June,2O26.


                          1 S TA: 6
                     I                    o
                                 AIl'a)
                st
                o                          a       Dustin Gettel.    or
                =t       Jtn.v t rgd'      *
ATTEST:                      R                     Voting by City Council   "Ay""        "Nay"
                                                   Bonnie Billings            ,./'
                                                   Paul Glover                 a,/'
                                                   Heidi Robinson
R ri And reason- MMC                               Bryant Brown               L/
Citv Recorder                                      Denece Mikolash
                                                                               --'
                                          (+ .zo
Date of first publication
Attachment A:
Midvale Municipal Code Section 17-7-12.10, Signs                                                         Page 1 of 3




17-7-12.10 Signs.
lf sign type is not specifically designated, then it is prohibited. Only two sign types are permitted
per building unless specifically approved by the planning commission through the conditional
use review process.


                                               Table 17-7-'12.10. Signs

                                              Height
   Sign Type          Sign Area Max                                         General Restrictions
                                               Max.


A-Frame               6 s.f              4              One per ground level tenant. Must not impede pedestrian
                                                        movement.


Awning/               5% of wall         80% of         Constructed of canvas-like materials or architectural metal.
                      surface; 80% of    vertical       Design and color to relate to storefront. May extend 5'
Canopy
                     width               drip           from facade at least 8'above sidewalk.


Campaign             32 s.l.             6              Removed within 15 days from final voting day. 3' max.
                                                        height in clear view triangle.


Changeable            5025% of sien                     Changeable copy signs may be wall or monument signs. 1
copy                                                    changeable copy sign/business location.


Construction         32 s.f .            12'            Removed prior to certificate of occupancy


Directional          4 s.f               3'             Located at drive entrances and on-site only


Flat or Wall         Sign 1 : 'l 5% of                  Must be attached to main building. All signs attached to
(lncludes            wall surface;                      facade, including awning signs, window signs and wall
Window)              Signs 2-3:                         signs, determine sign area,
                     combined
                     signage 5% of
                     wall surface




              The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2026-12, passed Aprt 2j,2026.
lMidvale lMunicipal Code Section l7-7-12.10, Signs                                                         Page 2 ol3



                                              Height
   Sign Type          Sign Area Max-                                       General Restrictions
                                               Max.


Monument              32 s.f            6'(total)      At least 1 foot of pedestal. May be placed on berm, w/top
                                                       of sign < 9'; 3' max. helght in clear view triangle; > 3' from
                                                       sidewalk.



Name Plate           3 s.f.             n/a            Must be attached to main structure


Off-Premises                            4              Off-premises directional signs shall be monument style
Directional                                            unless located on an existing sign pole; >150' from another
                                                       off-premises sign; > 6'from right-of-way. Arterial or major
                                                       collector streets only.


Pole Banners         2ft.x5ft           n/a            Must be attached to on-site light poles at top and bottom
                                                       corners. Must hang vertically. One sign per pole.


Real Estate          32 s.f .           12',           3' max. height in sight distance triangle



Shopping             Pylon signs: 1.5   Pylon: 35'     Min, shopping center area: 5 acres and 500' of frontage.
Center               s.f./foot of                      one pylon sign for every 500' of frontage (500' separation).
                                        Ny'onument
                     frontage up to                    One monument sign for every 250' of frontage (250'
                                        6',
                     300 s.f.                          separation). Decorative pylon cover required. Back to back
                                                       sign faces < 10".
                     Monu ment
                     signs:48 s.i + 1
                     s.f,/foot of
                     frontage < 96
                     s.f.



Temporary                                              See text.



                     25% of window                     See text.

                     a rea




              The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2025-12, passed Aptt 21 ,2026
Midvale Municipal Code Section 17--1-12.10, SiBns                                                          Page 3 of 3



t...1


M. Chongedble Copy S8rs. Changeable copy signs are subject to the additional standards:

        1   . llluminotion ond Movement.

                       measured at the propertv line. The sign must be equipoed with a dimmer switch
                       to meet the 0.5 footcandle requirement. The aoplicant must provide a
                       photometric plan with a building permit application.
                    b. A changeable coov sisn shall not inclr de animation. full motion video. flashins.
                       scrollins. strobinc racinc hlin kinc   anges in color. fadins in and out. or
                       movement.
                    c. Anv display on the changeable copy sign must remain for at least 8 seconds.
              P
              between 10:00 P.M. and 7:00 A.M.




                  The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2026-1 2, passed Aprn 21,2026-
Midvale City
Text Amendment Submission Packet
Applicant: Dean Cardinale

Business: World Wide Trekking

Address: 7404 Union Park Avenue, Midvale, UT 84047


Text Amendment Request - Midvale City Code lL7 -7 -L2l
Purpose: Request to modify monument sign regulations to allow up to 85%o changeable
copy, aligning with existing conditions and surrounding corridor development.

Current Code: (77 -7 -72.L0) Limits changeable copy on monument signs to 25olo of the total
sign area.

Proposed Amendment: Modit, (17 -7 -1.2.L0) to allow up to B5olo of the total monument
sign area to be used for changeable copy.

Context; The subject property is located near the boundary of Midvale and Sandy. Signage
both north (within Midvale) and south (within SandyJ reflects a consistent corridor pattern
of high-percentage changeable copy signage. This amendment reflects real-world conditions
immediately surrounding the site.

lustilication;
    A. Consistency with Existing Midvale Standards
        Midvale City Code (L7 -7-tl) (Historic Main Street Zone) Midvale City has approved
        a double-sided monument sign with substantial changeable copy for at their office
        building on Main Street, demonstrating an established precedent for this type of
        signage. (Exhibit A) The current code (17-7-7L-Lo) does not state that changeable
        copy signs are approved in Historic Midvale.

    B. CompatibilitywithSurroundingDevelopment
        The subiect property is located along a highly commercialized corridor where
        changeable copy signage is already prevalent. Examples include:

             .   Municipal signage at Midvale City offices (Exhibit A)

             .   Billboard signage along Fort Union Boulevard (Exhibit B)
Surrounding Area:

            .   Multiple electronic monument signs along the Union Park corridor
                extending into Sandy, including:

                    o VASA Fitness (Exhibit CJ
                    o Country Square Shopping Center (Exhibit D)
                    o Sandy Amphitheater (Exhibit E)
                    o Sandy Professional Center (Exhibit F)
                    o Alta View Hospital (Exhibit G)
These examples demonstrate that higher-percentage changeable copy signage is already
characteristic of the surrounding area.

C. Equal Treatment of Similar Land Uses
The current limitation in the Regional Commercial Zone creates an inconsistency between
zoning districts that serve similar commercial functions. Aligning (17-7 -12) wirh (17 -7 -ll)
promotes fairness and predictability in the application of sign regulations.




                                                                     s
                                                                         3ffi
                                                                         ':qt
                                                 If,   T-,t               .,.4



                  Ia
                                           --\

                                                       I
                                                           .t
                                       i(,i                     {'
Exhibit A - Midvale City Monument Sign (Historic Main Streetl (double sided signJ
I             I


              h                                  *'J .I           ;.



                                    IE
                          fiItrr(ul 4,.>

Exhibit B - Billboard .39 miles North of Site (Union Park) (Billboard sign)

                   .r-i   J
                   ;-'l
                              I
                                  t"
                                             I       al           ,_)

                                                          I   !
                    .a'

tr
      t
          I
          I
                   $*
                                       i;\r4t-
                                                 L




              .-
                                  a
      \



Exhibit C: - Vasa Fitness .39 miles South of Site (double sided signl 1300 East
                            flJ.Att
                                      'fi,
                             rooDr\r 4LL,



                         *stateFarm
                          Lail. Sanchcr Albino
                                .ol r90 0!09




Exhibit D - Electronic Sign Detail 1.5 miles South of Site (double sided sign) 1300 East



                                      -!                            t
    \                                            tr
                             Tlx@
                           lrandy
                          amp.com                             ,!r
                                                              {




Exhibit E - Monument Sign 2.5 miles South Corridor (Sandy) 1300 East [2 double sided
sign)
                     .. SANDY..
                   PRG)FESSItrNAL
                       CENTER



                                  srrtt
                                                         I
                    I

                                             J




Exhibit F - Monument Sign 2.5 miles South Corridor (Sandy) 1.300 East (doubled sided signJ




                             I
                                 tlalcttc'
                                       It                    t-
                                 T
                             1
                                     - I!.i i
    I                                                     i
                                        f-




Exhibit G - 2.6 miles South Corridor [Sandy) (3) fdouble sided signs) 1300 East

As demonstrated in Exhibits A-G, the proposed amendment reflects existing conditions
both within Midvale and along the immediately adiacent commercial corridor.
                                          :.I



                                          -b        I

                 f TT                     I
                                                I       &
                                      r


Exhibit H: World Wide Trekking 7404 Union Park Ave Site (single sided sign)

5. Compliance with Midvale City Code (17-3-1) (F)

The proposed text amendment satisfies multiple criteria outlined in Midvale City Code (17-
3-1(F), as follows:



A. Promotes the Obiectives ofthe General PIan (17-3-1(F)(1)

The proposed amendment supports the objectives ofthe City's General Plan by aligning
zoning regulations with the existing character and function ofthe surrounding commercial
corridor.

The subject property is located within a high-visibility commercial area where signage plays
an important role in business identification and communication. Allowing a greater
percentage of changeable copy on monument signs supports economic vitality by enabling
businesses to effectively communicate with the public.

Additionally, the amendment reflects the built environment along the corridor, where
similar signage already exists both within Midvale and in immediately adjacent areas.
Aligning the zoning code with these conditions promotes consistency, predictability, and
orderly development.
B. Promotes the Purposes of utah code Annotated (1o-9a-lo2 (17-3-1(F) (2))

The proposed amendment advances the purposes ofland use regulation as outlined in Utah
Code Annotated [10-9a-102) by:

   .   Supporting orderly development patterns consistent with existing land uses

   .   Promoting economic development and business viability within commercial
       zones

   e Encouraging uniform and equitable application ofland use regulations
   .   Ensuring that regulations reflect modern technology and current development
       practices

By allowing increased flexibility for monument signage, the amendment helps ensure that
Iocal businesses remain competitive and that regulations do not impose unnecessary
limitations inconsistent with surrounding conditions.



C. Clarifies Intent and Improves Code Interpretation (17-3-1(F)(3))

The current limitation of 25o/o changeable copy within the Regional Commercial Zone is
inconsistent with signage observed within Midvale and along the surrounding corridor,
including allowing the Midvale City double-sided sign exists with no change in the code (17-
7-LL) which would allow Midvale City to have a changeable copy sign on Historic Main
Street.

This inconsistency creates ambiguity in how the code is applied and interpreted,
particularly when similar signage has been approved in other zones or for municipal uses.

The proposed amendment provides clarity by establishing a standard that more accurately
reflects existing development patterns and removes uncertainty in the application of
monument sign regulations.
Conclusion:

As demonstrated in Exhibits A-G, monument and freestanding signage with a majority of
changeable copy already exists within Midvale and the surrounding corridor. The proposed
amendment aligns the code with existing, approved development patterns rather than
introducing a new or incompatible condition.

The proposed amendment brings the Regional Commercial Zone into alignment with
existing Midvale practices and the visual character ofsurrounding commercial corridors. It
supports local businesses, ensures consistency in code application, and reflects current
signage technology and usage.

Approval of this amendment is respectfully requested.



Thank you, Dean Cardinale

Founder I Lead Guide

World Wide Trekking
