                                 ORDINANCE, NO. 2026-0-06

AN ORDINANCE PROPOSING SPECIFIC FRONT SETBACK REQUIREMENTS FOR
CENTER SQ (T25 W STREET), MODIFYING VARIOUS SECTIONS OF MIDVALE
MUNICIPAL CODE CHAPTER I7-7.8 (TOD ZONE).

        WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Annorared Sections I 0-8-84 and I 0-20-501 through
 l0-20-503, Midvale City ("the City") has authority to make and amend any regulation of or
within zoning districts or any other provision ofthe land use ordinance to promote the prosperity,
improve the morals, peace and good order, coml'ort, convenience, and aesthetics ofthe
municipality; and

        WHEREAS, on January 2,2002.the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance, Title l7 of the
Midvale City Municipal Code (the "Code"), became eff'ective and is subject to amendments lrom
time to time pursuant to Section l7-3-l the Code; and

         WHEREAS, pursuant to Section I 6-04-01 0 of the Code, the City desires to promote the
protection ofpublic health, life and safety; protect the character and social and economic
stability ofall parts ofthe city; protect and preserve the value of land throughout the
rnunicipality; guide public and private policy and action: establish responsible standards; prevent
pollution and degradation of air, streams, and ponds; preserve the natural beauty and topography:
and provide lor open spaces through the most effect design and layout ofthe land; and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Section I 7- l - I of the Code, the City desires to promote
coordinated development, redevelopment, ef'fective use of land, and site planning; protect and
promote public safety, health, and general wellare by providing adequate light and air, water and
sewage control, police, fire and wetlands protection; and secure economy in governmenlal
expenditures; and

         WHEREAS, the City desires to amend Sections l7-7-8.3, 17-7-8.4, 17-7-8.5 and 17-7-
8.8 oflthe Midvale Municipal Code creating specific fiont setback requirements fbr Center Sq
( I 25 W Street): and


       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on February 11,2026,1o
review the request tbr amendment and, after considering all the information received, made a
recommendation to approve the amendment request to the City Council; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on March 3,
2026; and

       WHEREAS, after taking into consideration citizen testimony, planning analysis, and the
Planning Commission's recommendation as part of its deliberations, the City Council finds it is
appropriate and within the best interest ofthe City to make changes to the Code.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah
as follows:
        Section l. The following sections of the Midvale Municipal Code are hereby amended
        as included in the following attachments to this document:

                Attachment A: Amending sections l7-7-8.3,17-7-8.4, 17-7-8.5 and l7-7-8.8 of
                the Midvale Municipal Code creating specific front setback requirements for
                Center Sq ( 125 W Street)

        Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect upon the date offirst publication

        PASSED AND                      vED th is 3.,1 day of March, 2026.
                              I   STA .€
                                             o.,
                        <,
                                               c
                   It                              t   Dustin Gettel,
                             ,rn.y r. t9',         t
                    I
ATTEST:                                                Voting by City Council   "Aye"   "Nay"
                                  R
                                                       Bonnie Billings           \,''
                                                       Paul Glover               v/'
                                                       Heidi Robinson            1,."
   rI           , MMC                                  Bryant Brown              1'
City Recorder                                          Denece Mikolash           L?'

Date offirst publication:     3'4'J            LQ
Attachment A:
Midvale [,4unicipal Code Chapter 17-7-8, Transit-Oriented Development Zone (TOD)              Page 1 of B




17-7-A3 Singlefamilyresidentialdevelopmentstandards.
A. The following development standards apply to single family detached residential lot
subdivisions in the residential land use areas. These are traditional single family residential lots
that do not require additional open space and common areas within the development.



    2. Setbacks. The minimum setbacks for primary structures in single family detached
    residential lot subdivisions are as follows:

         a. Front. The minimum front yard setback is 2otw€nry feet.
              i. Corner Lot Rule. Corner lots have two front yards.
                   (A) Exceptions. The following exceptions apply to all front yard setbacks in the
                   zone:

                       (1) Front Porch. An open, front entry porch may encroach eight feet into
                       the front yard setback.

                       (2) Projections. Sills, cornices, chimneys, flues, eaves and ornamental
                       features may project into the front yard up to two and one-half feet.

                       13) lmpevious Surfoces. A driveway with a width of zQtwenty feet or fe+t).
                       pereent4o% ofthe lot frontage, whichever is greater, and a sidewalk of up
                       to five feet in width from the driveway or street to the front door. The
                        driveway may extend an additional 1oteF feet in width behind the
                        sidewalk.

              ii. South Center Squore (1 25 West Street) Exception. fhe front yard selback for

              from Center Street to West Park Street shall be a minimum of 32 feet from the
              front property line. The front vard setback must include angled oarking. a
              minimum sidewalk width of five feet beginning from the front edge of the sidewalk
              with adjacent properties. and a minimum of five feet of landscaping up to the



        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2025-23, passed December 2, 2025.
Midvale lMunicipal Code Chapter 17-7-8, Transit-Oriented Development Zone (TOD)              Page 2 of 8


              foundation of the residential structure. Each angled parking space shall be
              constructed at a 60 degree angle as shown in Figule Lbcloul

                                 Figure 'l: South Center Square Angled Parking


                                                               60"
                                             t
                                             N

                                                              (9
                                             o)
                                             (6
                                             q
                                             =
                                            a
                                             o)
                                             c
                                            oo
                                            a




17-7-8.4         Medium and high density residential development
                 standa rds.

A. The following development standards apply to new single family attached, single family
detached, and multifamily development in the zone, with the exception of single family
detached residential lot subdivisions (see Section IZZ:]8-3):

    1. Setbocks. New development shall comply with the following setbacks:

         a. Front. The minimum front yard setback is l5fifte€F feet, which shall include a
         five-foot park strip adjacent to the curb, which shall incorporate tree wells, street
         furniture and planter boxes; a sidewalk of five te+ix-feet-{a++hed.ise+et
         pfer+1ing€mmiss+€n); andjeur+e- five feet of landscaping up to the foundation of
         the residential structure. With the input from the city engineer, modification to the
         sidewalk and park strip standard may be allowed to provide an appropriate tie-in to an

        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2025-23, passed December 2, 2025
N,lidvale Municipal Code Chapter '17-7-8, Transit-Oriented Development Zone (TOD)           Page 3 of 8


         adjacent neighborhood sidewalk. The frent yard setba€k is measured frem the ba€l( 6f
         €u+b=


              i. Corner Lot Rule. Corner lots have two front yards.
              i\. Projections. Sills, cornices, chimneys, flues and ornamental features may project
              into the front yard up to two and one-half feet, provided they do not impede
              pedestrian traffic on the sidewalk. Eaves, awnings, arcades and second-story and
              above balconies may project into the front yard up to eight feet so long as these
              elements are at least eight feet above the ground and do not impede pedestrian
              traffic on the sidewalk.

              iii. South Center Squore (125 West Stree Exceotion. The frontvard setback for
              properties with frontage on the east side of South Center Square (125 West Street)
              from Center Street to West Park Street shall be a minimum of 32 feet from the
              front oroDertv line. The front vard setback must include ansled oarkine. a
              minimum sidewalk width of five feet beginning from the front edge of the sidewalk
              with adjacent properties. and a minimum of five feet of landscapin&up to the
              foundation of the residential structure. Each angled parking space shall be
              constructed at a 60 degree angle as shown in Figure 1 below.

                                  Figure 1: South Center Square Angled Parking


                                                                60'
                                              +   I


                                              N

                                                                @
                                              o)
                                              (g
                                              l
                                             ao
                                              q)
                                              co
                                             o
                                             a


        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2025 23, passed December 2,2025
N/idvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-8, Transit-Oriented Development Zone (TOD)              Page 4 of 8




    8. Access Monogement. All new development and an expansion by more than twenty-five
    percent of an existing building mass or site size shall comply with the following access
    management standards:

         a. All driveways and curb cuts shall be installed according to the standards and
         specifications contained in the Midvale City Construction Standards and Specifications
         handbook. Curb cuts for pedestrian access shall orient toward each street frontage.

         b. All newly installed driveways shall align with any existing access across the street.
         The planning commission may allow deviations to the requirement, provided the city
         engineer finds the driveway to be acceptable based on but not limited to access
         placement, traffic generated, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation.

         c. Except as required by Subsection 17-7-8.4(AXl XaXiii). Noew development or
         modifications to existing development shall not propose parking in such a way that
         users may be allowed to back onto public rights-of-way.

         d. Existing nonconforming driveways within the zone shall be retired upon
         construction of a new building.

         e. Shared driveways between and among parcels are encouraged and allowed if the
         parties execute and record an easement or a deed of dedication. in a form approved
         by the city attorney to ensure access in perpetuity for both parcels.




17-7-A.5 Retail, office and mixed-use development standards.
The following development standards apply to all new retail, office and mixed-use development
in the zone:

A. Lot Areo. There is no minimum lot area

B. Setbocks. New development shall comply with the following setbacks



        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through ordinance 2025-23, passed December 2, 2025
lMidvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-8, Transit-Oriented Development Zone (TOD)                    Page 5 of 8


    1. Front. The minimum frontyard setback isfifteen feet, which shall include a sidewalk of
    ten feet in width and a five-foot park strip, which shall incorporate tree wells, street
    furniture and planter boxes. The front yard setback is measured from the back of curb.

         a       Corner Lot Rule. Corner lots have tvvo front yards.

         b. Projections. Sills, cornices, flues and ornamental features may project into the front
         yard up to two and one-half feet, provided it does not impede pedestrian traffic on the
         sidewalk. Eaves, awnings, arcades and second story and above balconies may project
         into the front yard up to eight feet so long as these elements are at least eight feet
         above ground and do not impede pedestrian traffic on the sidewalk.

         c. South Center Soudre (125 West Stre ) ExceDtion. The front vard setback for
                                           h
                                                                      tntm m    f

         ei.la\^,rllz l^,i.ith nf firro faat heoinnino fram   c front pdqp nf thc <idcrarelL rarith ,a.lir.Ant
             r                 m ntm m
         retail. office or mixed-use structure. Each a sled oarkins soace shall be constructed at
         a 60 desree ansle as shown in Fisure 1 below

                                   Figure 1: South Center Square Angled Parking


                                                                  60"
                                                t
                                               N

                                                                 (9
                                               o)
                                               (d

                                               ou
                                               o
                                               oo)
                                               U)




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2025-23, passed December 2, 2025
N.4idvale lvlunicipal Code Chapter 17-7-8, Transit Oriented Development   Zone (TOD)           Page 6 of 8




l. Access Monogement. All new development and an expansion by more than twenty-five
percent of an existing building mass or site size shall comply with the following access
management standards:

     1. All driveways and curb cuts shall be installed according to the sta nda rds and
    specifications contained in the Midvale City Construction Standards and Specifications
    handbook. Curb cuts for pedestrian access shall orient toward each street frontage.

    2. All newly installed driveways shall align with any existing access across the street. The
    planning commission may allow deviations to the requirement, provided the city engineer
    finds the driveway to be acceptable based on but not limited to access placement, traffic
    generated, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation.

    3. Except as required by Subsection 17-7-8.5(BX1Xc). A+!ew development or modifications
    to existing development shall not propose parking in such a way that users may be allowed
    to back onto public rights-of-way.

    4. Existing nonconforming driveways within the zone shall be retired upon construction of
    a new building.

    5. Shared driveways between and among parcels are encouraged and allowed if the
    parties execute and record an easement, or a deed of dedication, in a form approved by
    the city attorney to ensure access in perpetuity for both parcels.




17-7-A.A Parking.

A. Locotion oI Porking.
     1   . Olf-Street Porking. The parking required herein must be located on the property except
    as specifically exempted herein.




          The Midvale Municipal Code is current throuBh Ordinance 2025-23, passed December 2, 2025
N4idvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-8, Transit-Oriented Development Zone (TOD)                Page 7 of 8


    2. On-Street Porklng. Parallel parking spaces on designated public and private streets may
    be used to meet the guest parking needs of residential and mixed uses. The city engineer
    will designate streets available for parking based on the width of the traveled surface,
    traffic demand, best engineering practices and adopted fire codes.

    3. Front Setbock. No parking shall occurwithin the front setback ofany building, excepti

       a-thatr#h€HA single family attached or detached st+uetu+e-b u ild ing is-located on a
          local street and is-set back at least eight€ep-lLfeet from the property line-, rnay lse
             a private driveway maylae-usedfor off-street parking:q,

       a,b.As required by Subsections 17-7-8.3(AX2XaXii). 17-7-8.4(A)( 1Xa)(iii). or
             1   7-7-8.5(B)( 1 Xc).




D. Medium ond High Density Residentidl Use Porking Stondords. Parkingfor new medium and
high density residential uses shall comply with the following:




    5. Street Access ond Circulotion. New medium and high density development shall provide
    the following:

         a. OIf-Street Porklng. Off-street parking areas must have unobstructed access to a
         street or alley. The parking area design for five or more vehicles must not encourage
         cars to back onto adjoining public sidewalks, parking strips, or roadways except as
         required by Subsection 17-7-8.4(4)(l XaXiii). With the exception of permitted tandem
         parking, parking spaces shall be independently accessible and unobstructed.




E. Commerciol Use Porking Stondords. Parking for new commercial uses shall comply with the
following:




    4. Street Access dnd Circulotion. New commercial development shall provide the following:



        The lvlidvale Municipal Code is current through ordinance 2025-23, passed December 2, 2025.
Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 17-7-8, Transit-Oriented Development Zone (TOD)                 Page 8 of 8


         a. Off-Street Pdrking. Off-street parking areas must have unobstructed access to a
         street or alley. The parking area design for five or more vehicles must not encourage
         cars to back onto adjoining public sidewalks, parking strips, or roadways except as
         required by Subsection 1 7-7-8.5(B)( 1Xc). With the exception of permitted tandem
         parking, parking spaces shall be independently accessible and unobstructed.




        The Midvale lMunicipal Code is current through Ordinance 2025-23, passed December 2, 2025.
                  ar EB                                                                                            \
                                               i]                                                         I
                                                                                                              :,

                       u E                     fl .            ,,
                      f I                  I                                                  \{
                                                                    ..i
      "'il             o
                      -ra
                                                          ro
                                                          (\    ,t
I il I
                      x                        f               O,
                                                               cDt
                                                                           1


                                                                                                                                tr
                                                                                                                                     rd
                                                                                                                                             -,!.
     t                                         J                -:,
                                                                          ,t                                       .\


                                               t
                                               l-l
                                                                                                                            x         '{
t                                                              T
              I                                4                                                                                                 -t

    {L                                         ,.:                                                l
                                                                                                                                      T


               -l
                                I
                                I
                            L
                                                                                              I-j'        I



          l
                  I
                                                                                              rt
               d1                                  '.,1
                                                    J                            I
                                                                                              !

                                           I
    T"*ji                                      J                                         rl




                                                                                                          ffii
                                                                           ,l
                                                                                r"
    l&,
          I Ir                                 T                                     t

                                                                                                      a
                                                                                                              '         '',#*"
                                                                                                                                                  \

         }             aa
                       ri
                       rl
                                                   n           ( I
                                                               I I
                                                                                                          -t sl                            ?0@



         .\        '        ,
                                                                                                                                                 5
                                                               a .t
                       t!                                                                                                                    :H
                                                                                                                                                 tJ

    lll!1,'"'Jr.liil r(
                        t
                                                               *d                                                      ,
                                                                                                                                      Ryker tn
                                                                                                                                                 CA
                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                             ts
                                                                           I                                                          s      ir'
                                    t-/\                            b
                                                               [,r               Il \'r'7-f|l!                .l
                                                                                                                                ,hn
                                                                                                                                      B

                                                                                                                            WG€nfiffiffi
                                                                                                                       -l
October 8, 2025

Midvale City Planning
7505 S Holden Street
Midvale, Utah 84047

Dear Planning Commission and City Council,

This letter accompanies our Text Amendment application regarding the front setback
requirements outlined in Midvale City Development Code Section 17-7-8.4 (A)(1Xa).

The current code specifies that the front setback must include a 'sidewalk of five to six feet (at
the discretion of the planning commission) and four to five feet of landscaping up to the
foundation of the residentialsfrucfure, " resulting in a total distance of I to 11 feet. We
respectfully request a TextAmendment allowing both the sidewalk and landscaping to be 5 feet
each, for a combined total of 10 feet-a dimension that remains fully compliant within the
established range.

As required by code, a TextAmendmenl must address at least one of the criteria listed in
Section 17-3-1(F). We believe our request meets Criteria 1 and Criteria 3.

Criteria '1: The proposod amendmont promotos the objectives of the general plan and purposes
of this title.
Our request supports the intent of the code by maintaining the combined setback width of 10
feet while promoling functional and balanced pedestrian and landscape areas.

Criteria 3: The proposed amendment more clearly explains tho intent of the original language or
has been amended to make interprotation more straightfonaard-
This amendment aligns with the intent of the original language by clarifying that an evenly
balanced distribution between sidewalk and landscaping still meets the design objeclives.


Additionally, the proposed sidewalk along the east side of Center Square (125 W) serves only
two additional parcels beyond our site before terminating. Given this limited pedeslrian use,
adopting the lower end of the code's allowable range is both appropriate and consistent with
neighborhood needs and future development needs.

We appreciate your time and consideration of this request and respectfully a6k for your approval
of the proposed Text Amendment.

Sincerely,


Darren Nate
Ryker Development
