                                                    ORDINANCE NO. 2026-0,-II

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE FRANCHISE AGREEMENT REQUIREMENTS OF
SECTIONS 5.52.050 AND 5.54.050 OF THE MIDVALB MUNICIPAL CODE.

       WHEREAS, the City of Midvale is authorized to regulate the use of public rights-of-way and to
grant nonexclusive franchises for utilities and wireless providers; and

         WHEREAS, franchise agreements are required to formalize the terms under which providers
install, construct, operate, and maintain systems within the public rights-of:way; and

       WHEREAS, the current code requires City Council approval of fianchise agreements regardless
of whether such agreements are substantially identical to previously approved agreements; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council finds that allowing administrative approval of franchise agreements
that are substantially unchanged will improve efficiency while maintaining appropriate oversight; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council desires to retain authority over any franchise agreement that
includes substantive modifi cations;

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah as
fbllows:

       Section l. The following sections of the Midvale City Municipal Code are hereby
       amended as included in the following attachments to this document:

           a    Attachment A: Amending the Franchise Agreement Requirements of Sections 5.52.050
                and 5.54.050 of the Midvale Municipal Code.

       Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect upon the date of first publication.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 2l'tday of April,2026.

                                C,
                                     J Y STA /6:
                           </                       9^
                      c)                 tat   '
                                                         ,a   Dustin Gettel, Mayor
                      =              rUt.v t tgdl        i
                       I
ATTEST:                                                       Voting by City Council   "Aye"    "Nay"
                                                              Bonnie Billings           r./
                                                              Paul Glover                t/
                                                              Heidi Robinson             t/'
                      C                                       Bryant Brown               t-/'
City Recorder                                                 Denece Mikolash             L/

Date of first publication
Attachment A:
Docusign Envelope lD: 47OE7 5CE-28P0-4O25-ABE0-B4E0AFF1 2E78




                           .

                                                                                                 7505 South Holden Street
                                                                                                        Midvale, UT 84047
                                                                                                    Phone (801)567 7200
                                                                                                     www,midvalecity.org


             MEMO

             To:     Matt Dahl, Midvale City Manager

             From: Glen Kennedy, Director of Public works

             CC: Melissa Strasburg, Procurement/ContractAnalyst
             Date: April ]4tt',2026
             RE: Oak Street Well Rehab and Equipment Replacement
             ln Janua ry 2026, the Water Department engaged Hansen, Allen, and Luce (HAL), under the City's Master
             Services Agreement, to perform maintenance and inspection work at the City's Oak Street Well. This
             work included removal of the existing line shaft pump and motor, followed by a complete teardown and
             inspection of the equipment. The scope also included brushing and bailing the well column to clean and
             reopen any plugged perforations in the column and casing. Video inspections were conducted both
             before and after cleaning. This work was completed by Widdison Well Services, a subcontractor to HAL.

             During the inspection process, it was discovered that the pump, motor, electrical components, and
             variable frequency drive (VFD) are originalto the well installation approximately 50 years ago and are in
             need of immediate replacement. The typical service life of this type of equipment is approximately 20
             years, which has been significantly exceeded.

             The Water Department has received a Task Order from HAL to furnish and install a new pump and pu mp
             column, a 150 HP motor, a new VFD, and updated electricalcomponents, including a new well sounder
             (water depth indicator). The Task Order also includes testing and commissioning of the new equipment.
             The work will be performed by Widdison Well Services, which is currently mobilized on-site from the
             previous scope of work and is prepared to proceed immediately.

             The cost of this work is not to exceed 5400,000. Under normal circumstances, this amount would
             require a formal bidding process, including public notice, as dictated by Utah Code S 11-39-1oa(Lxa).

             Due to the limited timeframe available to complete this work before seasonal water demand increases,
             and due to the level 2 drought designation by Jordan Valley and the City, getting this well operating is
             ma.ior. Water deliveries from Jordan Valley are restricted to 90% of our minimum contract this year and
             the ability for Midvale to produce its own water from this well is critical to be able to supply water to its
             residents. I am requesting approval of an emergency procurement exemption from the formal bidding
             process.
Midvale Municipal Code Section 5.52.050, Nonexclusive franchise                                    Page 1 of 1



5.52.050 Nonexclusive franchise.
The city is empowered and authorized to issue nonexclusive franchises governing the
installation, construction, operation, use and maintenance of systems in the city's rights-of-way,
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The franchise is granted through a franchise
agreement entered into between the city and provider. The mayor is authorized to execute a




modification of a franchise agreement requires city council approval. -(ord.20t4-08 s 1 (Exh. A
(part)); Ord. 10/28/20030-12 (part); Ord. 10-17-2000E (part))




5.54.050 Nonexclusive franchise.
The city is empowered and authorized to issue nonexclusive wireless franchises governing the
installation, construction, operation, use and maintenance of wireless systems in the cit/s right-
of-way, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The wireless franchise is granted
through a wireless franchise agreement entered into between the city and provider. The mayor
is authorized to execute a wireless franchise agreement without additional city council approval




requires city councilapproval. (Ord. 2018-10 S 1 (Exh. A);Ord.2018-01 5 1 (Exh. A))




           The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2025-12, passed June 17,2025.
