                                              ORDINANCE NO. 2026-0-12

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING MIDVALE CITY MUNICIPAL CODE 5.10.070 AND 5.10.080
RELATING TO ISSUANCE OF ALCOHOL SERVER'S IDENTIFICATION BADGES.

        WHEREAS, the Midvale City Council is authorizedto "pass all ordinances and rules, and make
all regulations, not repugnant to law, [...] as are necessary and proper to provide for the safety and
preserve the health, and promote the prosperity, improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, and
convenience of the city and its inhabitants, and fbr the protection of property in the city" under Utah Code
Annotated $ l0-8-84(l); and

        WHEREAS, Midvale City Municipal Code 5.10 requires employees serving alcohol in taverns,
bars, and private clubs to have a city-issued Alcohol Seryer's ldentification Badge; and

         WHEREAS, Midvale City Municipal Code 5.10 outlines requirements for Alcohol Server's
Identification Badges and penalties for violation; and

          WHEREAS' Utah Code Annotated {i (268-5-205) requires those serving alcohol to take and pass
a training course, and receive a certificate of completion; and

          WHEREAS, business premises must have records of certificates of completion of said training
course; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council finds the state more appropriate for monitoring requirements of
those serving alcohol; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council desires to amend Midvale City Municipal Code 5.10.070 and
5.10.080 by removing the City requirements relating to city-issued Alcohol Server's ldentification
Badges.

          NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah as
fbllows

          Section 1. The following sections of the Midvale City Municipal Code are hereby amended to
          repeal the City requirements for city-issued Alcohol Server's ldentification Badges:

             o Attachment A: Midvale City Municipal Code 5.10.070 and 5.10.080.
          Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect upon the date of first publication.

          PASSED AND APPROVED this 2l't day of                       2026.
                                     { srA ,e
                                I                                   Mayor
                                                   c
                            o
ATTEST                      :       ----€                     by City Council   "Aye"       "Nay"
                            I       rUt.v t. l$t   t          Billings           \./
                                                       Paul Glover                l,/-
                                                       Heidi Robinson             L./'
                        C                              Bryant Brown             __7
                                                                                 w'
City Recorder                                          Denece Mikolash
Date of first publication
                            he;t 27.7r'o
Attachment A:
Midvale lVunicipal Code Section 5,10.070, Qualifications                                       Page 'l of 5



5.10.070 Qualifications.


     1. Midvale City shall not gra nt a n alcoholic beverage license and/or loca I consenttoany
     person who has been convicted of:

          a   A felony under any federal or state law;

          b. Anyviolation of anyfederal or state law or local ord inance concerning the sale,
          manufacture, distribution, warehousing, adulteration, or transportation of alcoholic
          beverages;

         c    Any crime involving moral turpitude;

         d. On two or more occasions within the five years immediately before the day on
         which the license is granted, driving under the influence of alcohol, any drug, or the
         combined influence of alcohol and any drug.

    2. ln the case of a partnership, corporation, or limited liability company the proscription
    under subsection (AX1) of this section applies if any ofthe following has been convicted of
    any offense described in subsection (AX1l of this section:

         a. A pa rtner;

         b. A managing agent;
         c. An officer;
         d. A director;
         e. A stockholder who holds at least twenty percent of the total issued and outstanding
         stock of the applicant corporation; or

         f. A member who owns at least twenty percent of the applicant limited liability
         company.

B. Midvale City may immediately suspend or revoke an alcoholic beverage license and/or local
consent if after the date on which the license or consent is granted, a person described in
subsection (AX1) or (a ofthis section:

         The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2026-04, passed February 3, 2026
Midvale Municipal Code Section 5.10.070, eualifications                                        Page 2 of 5


     1. ls found to have been convicted of any offense described in subsection (AX1) of this
    section prior to the license being granted; or

    2. On or after the day on which the license is granted:
         a    ls convicted of any offense described in subsection (AX1Xa), (b) or (q) of this section;
         or

         b.


              i. ls convicted of driving under the influence of alcohol, any drug, or the combined
              influence of alcohol and any drug; and

              ii. Was convicted of driving under the influence of alcohol, any drug, or the
              combined influence of alcohol and any drug within five years before the day on
              which the license was granted.

C. The license administrator may take emergency action by immediately suspending the
operation of an alcoholic beverage licensee according to the procedures listed in this chapter
for the period during which the criminal matter is being adjudicated if the person described in
subsection (AX1) or (2) of this section:

    1. ls arrested on a charge for an offense described in subsection (A)(1 Xa), (b) or G) of this
    section; or

    2.


         a. ls arrested on a charge for the offense of driving under the influence of alcohol, any
         drug, or the combined influence of alcohol and any drug; and

         b. Was convicted of driving under the influence of alcohol, any drug, or the combined
         influence of alcohol and any drug within five years before the day on which the person
         is arrested on a charge described in subsection (CX2Xa) of this section.

D


    1




         a. Midvale City shall not grant an alcoholic beverage license and/or local consent to
         any person who has had any type of license, agency, or permit issued under this title


         The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2026-04, passed February 3,2026.
Midvale Municipal Code Section 5.10.070, Qualifications                                       Page 3 of 5


          revoked within the last three years of the date of application for an alcoholic beverage
          license and/or local consent under this chapter.

          b. Midvale City shall not grant an alcoholic beverage license and/or local consent to an
         applicant that is a partnership, corporation, or limited liability company if any partner,
         managing agent, manager, officer, director, stockholder who holds at least twenty
         percent of the total issued and outstanding stock of the applicant corporation, or
         member who owns at least twenty percent of the applicant limited liability company is
         or was:

              i. A partner or managing agent of any partnership that had any type of license,
              agency or permit issued under this title revoked within the last three years;

              ii. A managing agent, officer, director, or stockholder who holds or held at least
              twenty percent of the total issued and outstanding stock of any corporation that
              had any type of license, agency, or permit issued under this title revoked within
              the last three years; or

              iii. A manager or member who owns or owned at least twenty percent of any
              limited liability company that had any type of license, agency or permit issued
              under this title revoked with the last three years.

    2. An applicant that is a partnership, corporation, or limited liability company shall not be
    granted an alcoholic beverage license and/or local consent if any of the following had any
    type of license, agency, or permit issued under this title revoked while acting in that
    person's individual capacity within the last three years:

         a. A partner or managing agency of the applicant partnership;

         b. Any managing agent, officer, director, or stockholder who holds at least twenty
         percent of the total issued and outstanding stock of the applicant corporation; or

         c. A manager or member who owns at least twenty percent of the applicant limited
         liability company.

    3. A person acting in an individual capacity shall not be granted an alcoholic beverage
    license and/or local consent if that person was:




         The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2026-04, passed February 3,2026
Midvale Municipal Code Section 5.10.070, eualifications                                                        Page 4 of 5


          a. A partner or managing agent of a partnership that had any type of license, agency,
          or permit issued under this title revoked within the last three years;

          b. A managing agent, officer, director, or stockholder who held at least twenty percent
          of the total issued and outstanding stock of a corporation that had any type of license,
         agency or permit issued under this title revoked in the last three years; or

         c. A manager or member of a limited liability company who owned at least wventy
         percent of the limited liability company that had any type of license, agency or permit
         issued under this title revoked within the last three years.

E



    1. A minor shall not be granted an alcoholic beverage license and/or local consent

    2. Midvale City shall not grant an alcoholic beverage license and/or local consent to an
    applicant that is a partnership, corporation, or limited liability company if any of the
    following is a minor:

         a    A partner or managing agency of the applicant partnership;

         b. A managing agent, officer, director, or stockholder who holds at least twenty
         percent of the total issued and outstanding stock of the applicant corporation; or

         c. A manager or member who owns at least twenty percent of the applicant limited
         liability company.



been envieteC:

    1   .\n                                     rh6   fi\,6   \,d.r.   imhddi.r6lv   hdf^/6   rha   .l1\,
              ^n6           ^..rci^^.,^,irhin                                                               ^n,^,hi-fa




    beYe+eS€t

    l, gn twe er mere eec

    i@


         The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2026-04, passed February 3,2026.
Midvale Municipal Code Section 5.'10.070, eualifications                                        Page 5 of 5


GF. lf any person to whom a license has been issued under this part no longer possesses the
qualifications required by this title for obtaining that license, Midvale City may suspend or
revoke that license. (ord. 1o/2a/2oo3o-j2\




The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2OZE-04, passed February 3,
2026

Disclaimer: The city clerk's office has the official version of the Midvale Municipal Code. Users
should contact the city clerk's office for ordinances passed subsequent to the ordinance cited
above.

Citv Website: www.midvalecitv.ors

H-osLei byGelerallode.




         The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2026'04, passed February 3, 2026,
Midvale [,4unicipal Code Section 5.']O.08O, Operational requirements                             Page '1 of 3



5.10.080 Operational requirements.
A. Holders of any ofthe classes of alcoholic beverage business licenses and/or local consent
set forth in this chapter shall be governed by the operational requirements set forth herein and
by the requirements of ritle 32A, utah code Annotated, 1 953, not inconsistent with this
chapter.

B. The licensee having an off-premises retail beer license shall only permit the sale of beer
between the hours of six a.m. and one a.m. the following morning.

c. Any licensee having an off-premises retail beer, an on-premises retail beer which is not a
tavern, a restaurant liquor, or limited restaurant license may keep the licensed premises open
to the public at hours other than those allowed for the sale and/or consumption of beer and
liquor, to conduct activities other than the sale and consumption of beer and liquor. Any
licensee having an on-premises retail beer-tavern or private club or any class license or
single-event permit shall not permit the licensed premises to remain open to patrons between
the hours of two a.m. and seven a.m.

D. All licensed premises to sell or dispense beer or liquor shall be kept reasonably illuminated
at alltimes that it is occupied or open for business and no booth, blind or stall shall be
maintained unless all tables, chairs and occupants, if any, therein are kept open to the full view
of the main floor of such licensed premises.

E. Premises having an off-premises retail beer license and which sell "malt coolers" must have
a sign, of a size of at least six inches by eight inches, stating: "Malt beverages and malt liquor
are alcoholic beverages." The sign is not required if only beer and no other type of beer product
is sold.

F. Premises having an off-premises retail beer license must segregate alcoholic beverages
from other beverages (such as soft drinks or dairy products) in the display case.

G. ln premises having an off-premises retail beer license, at each point where beer is displayed
for sale, and at each cash register and other location where the sale is consummated, a notice,
at least six inches by ten inches, shall be displayed indicating:

     1. The purchase, possession and/or consumption of beer by persons under the age of
     twenty-one years is unlawful.


           The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2026-04, passed February 3, 2026
Midvale N4unicipal Code Section 5.10.080, Operataonal requirements                               Page 2 of 3

       2. Having an open container of any alcoholic beverage in or about a motor vehicle is
       u nlawfu l.


       3   Purchasers of beer shall be expected to produce adequate identification upon request.

H_
emPley in eenneetien with his/her busines@issued                                             an aleehel
@ll                                    emPleyees @he                                          €ityfera

private €lub ef a'ry €lass in whi€h beer er liquer is seld, The appli€ant will be required t6 rurnish
his/her full name, address, a baekgreund eheek previded threugh B€t, A vielatien ef this


                                                                 whe negligently allows an empleyee
@r                                            will be €ensidered te have vielated the erdinan€e
€edified in this €haPter, A first vielatien ef this previsien shall result in a written \,!arning te the
owner/li€ensee, A se€ond vielation within a ene year p€ried shall resulLiF a ene yeatr
                                                                                 pleyee as required by
@€i+tain€d                                            6n+h€ i        ed premiseqje+-ee€h €mf'l€y€€.€+
a++irm€+

       '1, The €hief ef p@li€e er his designee may als€ require that as part 6f a €riminal
                                                                                          base and that
       the individual all                                                                         e€k,

+   H. ln premises havrng any class of license:

       1. lt is unlavvful and constitutes a class B misdemeanor for any owner, manager, licensee,
       or lessee or any agent of such business licensed for the sale or consumption of any
       alcoholic beverage on the premises in the city to allow or permit any dancer, entertainer,
       employee or other person to appear in or on such place of business naked or so clothed as
      to expose in any way the buttocks, genitals, pubic area, or female breast of such dancer,
       enterta iner or other person.

       2. lt is unlavvful and constitutes a class B misdemeanor for any such dancer or entertainer,
       employee or other person to enter such place of business naked or so clothed so as to
       expose at any time of appearance the buttocks, genitals, pubic area, or female breast.




           The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2026-04, passed February 3, 2026
Midvale Municipal Code Section 5.10.080, Operational requirements                             Page 3 of 3


    3. Violation of this section shall be grounds for suspension or revocation of the license or
    licenses of the establishment where violations occur. (ord. 1 o/28/2oo3o-12)




The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2O25-O4, passed February 3,
2026.

Disclaimer: The city clerk's office has the officialversion of the Midvale Municipal Code. Users
should contact the city clerk's office for ordinances passed subsequent to the ordinance cited
above.

City Website: www. midvalecity.org

Hosted by General Code.




         The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2026-04, passed February 3,2026.
