                                 ORDINANCE NO. 2026-0-08

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE I6 AND SECTION 17.4.3 OF THE MIDVALE
CITY MUNICIPAL CODE TO COME INTO COMPLIANCE WITH REQUIREMENTS
OF THE UTAH STATE LECISLATURE

        WHERf,AS, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated Sections l0-8-84 and l0-20-501 through
l0-20-503, Midvale City (lhe City") has authority to make and amend any regulation of or
within zoning districts or any other provision ofthe land use ordinance to promote the prosperity,
improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, convenience, and aesthetics ofthe
municipality; and

        WHEREAS, on January 2.2002. the Midvale City Zoning Ordinance. I itlc l7 of the
Midvale City Municipal Code (the "Code"), became efl'ect ive andi.s subje ct amendments from
                                                                          I
time to time pursuant to Section I 7-3- I the Code; an d'

         WHEREAS, pursuant to Section I 6-01 -0 I 0 o                          S ITES to promote the

protection ol public health, life and safety; protect the                 ial and economic
stability ofall pans ofthe city; protect and preserve the value ofland throughout the
municipality; guide public and private policy and action; establish responsible standards; prevent
pollution and degradation ofair, streams, and ponds; preserve the natural beauty and topography;
and provide for open spaces through the most eflective design and layout ofthe land;

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Section l7-l-l of the Code, the City desires to promote
coordinated development, redevelopment, effective use of land, and site planning; protect and
promote public safety, health, and general welfare by providing adequate light and air, water and
sewage control, police, fire and wetlands protection; and secure economy in govemmental
expenditures; and

      WHEREAS, the City desires to amend Title I 6 and Section I 7-4-3 of the Midvale City
Municipal Code to come into compliance with Utah State Code; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on March I I, 2026, to
review the request for amendments and, after considering all the information received, made a
recommendation to approve the amendment request to the City Council; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Midvale City, Utah held a public hearing on March 24,
2026: and

       WHEREAS, after taking into consideration citizen testimony, planning analysis, and the
Planning Commission's recommendation as part of its deliberations, the City Council finds it is
appropriate and within the best interest ofthe City to make changes to the Code.

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Midvale City, Utah
as follows:
        Section l. The following sections of the Midvale City Municipal Code are hereby
        amended as included in the attachments to this document:

            .   Attachment A: Amending Title l6
            .   Attachment B: Amending Section I 7-4-3

        Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect upon the date offirst publication.

        PASSED AND APPROVED this 23'd day of March, 2026.

                                 r sTa
                                               c
                                                   Dustin Gettel, Mayor
                       o
                       :                       -
                        *      ,trl. r. l!d'   *
ATTEST:                                            Voting by City Council                "Nay"
                                                   Bonnie Billings            ,/
    )                                              Paul GIover                t/
                                                   Heidi Robinson             t/
                                                   Bryant Brown               t-/
C    Recorder                                      Denece Mikolash            L./

Date of first publ irutior,   2r-)ll -2Lj
   Attachment A:




(l'age lell blank intentionally)
Midvale Municipal Code Section 17-4-3, Powers and Duties and Title 16, Subdivisions             Page 1 of 30



17-4-3               Powers and duties.

The planning commission shall:

A. Generol Plan. Prepate and recommend a general plan and amendments to the general plan
to the city council;

B. ZoninS. Recommend zoning ordinances and maps, and amendments to zoning ordinances
and maps, to the city council;

C. Subdivision Regulation. Recommend subdivision regulations and amendments to those
regulations to the city council;

D. Subdivision Appllcotions. Aporove or deny preliminarv subclivision apolications as provided in
Title 16;                                                                                                      Deleted: Recommend approval or denial of
                                                                                                               subdivision applications as provided in this chapter;
E. Conditionol Use Permits. Approve or deny conditional use permits                                            Deleted: and

F. Street Vocotlons and ProperV Drsoosol. Recommend aoproval or denial of the vacation of
clty-owned rights of way or the disposal of city-owned property as provided in chapter 12.16;
aod

6 Other Duties. The planning commission shall have all of the powers and duties explicitly or
impliedly given planning commissions by the laws of the state or city. (ord. 12-1 1-2oo1c s 2 (part))




            The Midvale Municipal code is current through ordinance 2025-02, passed February 4,2025.
   Attachment B:




(Pase left blank intentionally)
Midvale Municipal Code Section 1 7-4-3, Powers and Duties and Title 16, Subdivisions            Page '1 of 30




                                             Title 16
                                          suBDtvtstoNs
Chapters:
  16.O1           Subdivisions
  16.O2           Preliminary plat
  16.03           Final Subdivision
  16.O4           Boundary Line Adjustment
  16.05          Vacation, Replat, or Amendment of plat




          The Midvale Municipal code is current through ordinan ce zo2s-o2, passed February 4, 2025.
Midvale Municipal Code Section 17-4-3, Powers and Duties and Title '16, Subdivisions            Page 2 of 30


                                             Chapter 16.01
                                            SUBDlVISIONS

Sections:
  16.01.010                Purpose.
  16.01.020                Definitions.
   15.O1.030               Applicability.
   16.01.050               Violation of subdivision ordinance.
  16.01.050                Fees.
  't   6.0't.070           lnvalidity or unconstitutionality.
   16.01.080               Unlawfu! subdivision.
   16.01.090               Nonconformint structures.
   16.01.100               condominium plat.
   16.01.110               Appeals.
   15.01.'t 20             Preapplication meeting.
   15.01.130               Overview of subdivision process.




16.01.010 Purpose.
This title is enacted pursuant to Utah Code Annotated Section                          The         of this     Deleted: 1 0-9a-601

title is to:                                                                                                   Deleted:9a
                                                                                                               Deleted:6
A. Protect and provide for the public health, safety, and general welfare ofthe city;
B. Guidethefuturegrowthanddevelopmentofthecityinaccordancewiththegeneral plan;

C. Provide for adequate light, air, and privacy, to secure safety from fire, flood, landslides and
other geologic hazards and other dangers, and to prevent overcrowding ofthe land and undue
congestion of population;

D. Protect the character and the social and economic stability of all parts of the city and to
encourage the orderly and beneficial development of all parts of the municipality;




            The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2025-02, passed February 4, 2025.
Midvale Municipal Code Section l7-4-3, Powers and Duties and Title 1 6, Subdivisions         Page 3 of 30


E. Protect and preserve the value of land throughout the city and the value of buildings and
improvements upon the land, and to minimize the conflicts among the uses of land and
buildings;

F. Guide public and private policy and action in order to provide adequate and efficient
transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, playgrounds, recreation, and other public
requirements and facilities;

G. Provide the most beneficial relationship between the uses of land and buildings and the
circulation of traffic and public transportation throughout the city, having particular regard to
the avoidance ofcongestion in the streets, highways, and public transportation, and the
pedestrian traffic movements appropriate to the various uses of land and buildings, and to
provide for the proper location and width of streets and building lines;

H. Establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for subdivisions, records of
survey, replats, and boundary line adjustments, in order to further the orderly layout and use of
land; and to insure proper legal descriptions and monumenting of subdivided land;

l. Ensure that public facilities are available and will have a sufficient capacity to serve the ciqy's
population and the proposed subdivision, replat, or boundary line adjustment;

J. Preventthepollutionordegradationofair,streams,andponds;                    toassuretheadequacyof
drainagefacilities; to safeguard the watertable; to minimize site disturbance, removal of native
vegetation, and soil erosion; and to encourage the wise use and management of natural
resources throughout the municipality in order to preserve the integrity, stability, and beauty of
the community and the value of the land;

K. Preserve the natural beauty and topography of the city and to insure appropriate
development with regard to these natural features;

L. Provideforopenspacesthroughthemostefficientdesignandlayoutoftheland,including
the use of flexible density or cluster-type zoning in providing for minimum width and area of
lots, while preserving the density of land as established in this title and Title .17;

M. Minimize the number of boundary line disputes in the city and to eliminate existing
property line gaps and property line overlaps; and

N. Avoid poorly planned developments that:


        The Midvale Municipal code is current through ordinance 2o?5-oz, passed February 4, 2025.
Midvale Munr.ipal Code Section 17-4-3, Powers and Duties and Title 15, Subdivisions        Page 4 of 30


     1. Cannot be adequately served by existing utilities or public seNices;

    2. May prove to be danSerous or unsafe;
    3. May cause an undue burden on existing traffc or transportation services;
    4. May require the future expenditure of public funds to correct problems caused by the
    development. (ord. 2024-oi 5 I (Att. A)




't6.0't.020 Definitions.
For the purpose ofthis title, certain abbreviations, terms, and words shall be used, interpreted
and defined as set forth herein. Words not included herein, but which are defined in Chapter
l7-2, shall be (onstrued as defined therein.

"culinary water authority' has the definition provided in utah Code Annotated section Jlrq                    Deleted: 1o-9a-103
                                                                                                          -
l]lz as amended.
"Review cycle" has the definition provided in Utah Code Annotated Se.tion                                     oelered: r 0-9a'604 2
amended.                                                                                                      oelercdl 9!
                                                                                                              oelered: 604-2
"Sanitary sewer authori!y'' has the definition provided in Utah Code Annotated Section                        Deleted: 1o-9a-103
I02, as amended.

"subdivision improvemenf' means the required infrastructure, improvements, and municipally
controlled utilities r equrred for a subdrvisron.

"subdivision improvement plans" has the definition provided in Utah Code Annotated Section
10"20-806, as amended.                                                                                        Delered: lt):9n:604-2


"subdivision ordinance revietv'has the definition provided in Utah Code Annotated Section                     ocletcd: l0:9n:6.01l2

?lo:jllx:! as amended.

"Subdivision plan revieM/' has the definition provided in Utah Code Annotated Section                         Deleted: r0-9,r-604 2

EQli as amended.

"Underground facility''has the definition provided in Utah Code Annotated Section                             oelat€d: lt:9a:6Q3

as amended. (ord. 2024-01 q 1 (Att. A)



         The Midvale MunicipalCode is current through Ordinance 2025-02, passed Febtuary 4,202s
Midvale Muni. palCode section 17-4-3, Powers and Duties andTitle 15, Subdivisions          Page s of 30


16.01.03O Applicability.
Any division of real property located within Midvale City is subje(t to the terms ofthis title.
However, if state law exempts a particular division of real property, then the state law governs.

The divjsion of real property includes any sale, gift, transfer, conveyance, consolidation, split, or
other division that results in chanting the boundaries or legal description ofa given parcelor
lot of real property. (ord. 2024-01 q r (Att. AD




16.01.O50 Violationofsubdivisionordinan€e.
Unless otherwise specifred by state law or this title, the violation ofany ofthe provisions ofthis
chapter is a class C misdemeanor- This provision may not be used against city officers and staff
in their Sood faith attempts to administer and enforce the terms of this title. (ord.2024-01 S 1 (Att.
A)




16.01.060 Fees
Fees required by this title must be paid in the amount set by the city council. (ord.2024-01 s j (Art.
A)




16.01.070 lnvalidityor unconstitutionality.
Should any portion of this title be found to be invalid or unconstitutional by a court of
competentjurisdiction, all remaining portions not found to be invalid or unconstitutionalwill
remain in full force and effect. (ord. 2024-oi I j (Att. A)




        The Mrdvale MunicipalCode is cur.ent throuSh Ordinance 2O2s-02, passed F€btrary 4,2025
Midvale Municipal Code Section l7-4-3, Powers and Outi€s and Tltle 15, Subdivisions           Page 5 of 30


16.0'1.o80 Unlawfulsubdivision.
A. lt is unlalvful to transfer, sell, convey, tift, or assiSn any lot before a final subdivision plat for
the lot to be transferred, sold, conveyed, gifted, or assigned is approved and recorded pursuant
to the reqLriremenrs ofthis title and appljcable state law.

B. Except as otherwise provided, all lots or parcels created by the subdivisaon of real property
must comply with the citys lot size. lot width, lot depth, lot frontaSe, and buildable area
requirements, and must abut a public or private street.

C. No subdivision may leave a lot or parcel outside the subdivision without access to a public
street or a private street which the lot or parcel outside the subdivision has the legal riSht to
use.

D. Any applicant desirinB to develop property that has been subdivided illegally must comply
with the requirements of this title before developing the property, retardless of whether or not
the appli€ant was the one who illeSally subdivided the property. No building permit may be
issued for real property that has been illegally subdivided until the property has come into
compliance with this title. The restrictions of this subsection do not apply to leSally
nonconforming lots-

E. lt as unlawful to amend, vacate, alter, or modify any plat which has been approved and/or
recorded, without first receaving city approval of the amended, vacated, altered, or modified
plat.

F. lt is unlaMul to divide real property in such a way that a lot or parcel of property is created
or left behind that cannot be developed according to the requirements ofthis title, the city
zoning ordrnance, and other applicable laws, re8ardless of whether or not a subdivision plat is
required for the division. Examples ofthis type ofviolation include, but are not limited to,
nuisance or protection strips, parcels or lots created or left for the sole purpose ofdenyinS
another property owner access to his or her property, parcels or lots wath insufficient square
foota8e, parcels or lots with insufflcient buildable area, parcels or lots that that do not meet the
institutional controls requarements under Chapter 8-ll) and parcels or lots that do not abut on
a Street-


G. All property must be developed in strict compliance with the approved preliminary plat, the
approved final plat, the approved construction drawings, the citys construction standards and


            The Midvale MunicipalCode is current through Ordinance 2025'02, passed Febtuary 4,2025
Midvale Munic palCode section 17-4-3, Powers and Durres andTirle 16. Subdivisionq              Page 7 of 30


specifications, and all notesi restri(tions, covenants, dedications, boundaries, and other
commitments shown on the approved preliminary or final plat. Failure to note any
improvement required by this title or any other part ofthe Midvale l,.4unicipal Code on the
preliminary plat, final plat, or the constru(tion drawings will not eliminate the applicants
responsibility to complete that improvement in the subdivision.

H. ltisunlawfultoconveyortorecordanyconveyanceofanyreal property to the city without
following the appropriate processes outlined in this title and in Section lfLU,lQfQ or without
otherwise obtaining the consent ofthe (ity council. Any such conveyance is voidable by the city
(Ord.2024-01 51 (Att. A))




15.01.090 Nonconformingstructures.
A subdivision that has the effect of rendering any existing structure nonconforming to (urrent
city ordinances shall not be allowed. All property lines, streets and other improvements shall be
located in such a way as not to render any existing use or structure nonconforming. However,
an applicant may request a variance pursuant to Section '17-3-13. (ord.2024-0j q 1 {Att. A)




16.01.100 Condominiumplat.
Each application for condominium on Iand that has never been subdivided shall be pro(essed
as a new subdivision, including the preliminary plat and final subdivision process if new. Each
application for condominium on previously subdivided land shall be processed as an
amendment of plat. (Ord.2024-0t 6 1 (Att. A)




16.01.110 Appeals.
Final decisions on applications under this title may be appealed to the hearing officer appointed
pursuant to Se.tion '17-5-3 and according to the p.ocesses described in Section.lZ3:13. (Ord.
2024-015r(Att.A)




        The Midvale tvluni. pal Code rs currenr through Ordrnance 2O2s-02, passed February 4,202s.
Midvale MunicipalCode Section l7-4'3, Powers and Outies and Ttle 15, Subdivisions           Page 8 of 30


16.01.120 Preapplication meeting.
A. An applicant for a subdivision, record of survey, amended subdivision, boundary line
adjustment, plat vacation, or vacation of a publac street may request to meet with the
community development department to discuss the scope, purpose, procedures, and
requirements ofthe proposed subdivision and the requirements ofthis code.

B. As part of the request for a preapplication meeting, the applicant must provide drawings to
the community development department in sufficient detailto allow staffto reviewthe
proposalfor compliance with this code and to direct the applicant to the appropriate process.

C. Within fifteen days ofthe reqLrest for a preapplication meetint, city staff mLrst schedule a
meeting to review the concept plan and provide initial feedback.

D. At the preapplication meetint, city staff must provide or have available on the municipal
website (T) copies ofapplicable land use retulations;(2) a complete list ofstandards required
for the project; (3) preliminary and final application checklasts; and (4) feedback on the concept
plan. (ord. 2024-01 E r (att. A))




15.01.130 Overview of subdivision process.
The following subsections provide a briefoverview ofthe subdivision approval process in
Midvale City. This section is not intended to give an exhaustive review ofthe subdivision
process. lvlore specific provisions relating to the approval process are found elsewhere in this
title.

A. the applicant and their enSineer are responsible for knowing and complying with the
provisions of this title.

L The applicant prepares a preliminary plat. See Section 16.02.030.
C. The applicant completes an application for preliminary plat approval, submits the
application, the preliminary pla! required supporting documents, and the applacable fee to the
(ommunity development department. See Section 1 6.02.020.

D. The preliminary plat is reviewed by the development review committee to determine if it
complies with applicable city ordinances, and the city engineer determines what public

          The Midvale Municipalcode is currentthrouSh ordinance 2025-02, passed February 4, 2025
Midvale MunicipalCode Section 17-4-3, Powers and Duties and Titte i 6. Subdivisions        Page 9 of 30


improvements are required and reviews the subdivisior't imorovement olans. See Sections
16.02.040{A) and (8).

E. The planning commission holds a pLtblic hearing on the preliminary plat and approves or
denies it. See Section 16.02-040(C).

F. lf the planning commission approves the preliminary plat, the appli.ant prepares a final
plat, completes an application for final plat approval, and submits the application, the final plat,
required supportint documents, and the applicable fee to the community development
department. See Section 1 6.03.020.

G. The flnal plat is reviewed by the developmenr review committee. See Section ]ji.OiJllo.

H. The applicant completes the required improvements or provides the appropriate
completion assurance for required improvements. See Section l6.O3.OSO.

L The development review committee approves the final subdjvjsion plat, and it is signed by
appropriate city personnel if lt complies with all applicable laws. See Section 16.03.040.

J. lf the applicant provided completion assurance, the applicant completesthe required
improvements within a year. See Section 18.01.020.

K. The city inspects the required improvements, and if they comply with the ciq/s construction
standards and a certificate of occupancy has been issued for a property that relies on said
public improvements, then the city ac(epts the improvements and ninety percent of the
completion assurance is released. See Section 18.01.020.

L. lf the required improvements remain free from defects through the required warranty
period, the restofthe completion assurance is released to the applicant. See Section 18.01.020.
{Ord.2024-01 5 1 (Att.A))




                                           Chapter 16.02
                                       PRELIMINARY PLAT

Sections:
  16.O2.010                 Preliminary plat required.
  16.O2,O20                 Application for preliminary plat approval.

         The Midvale Municipal Code s cunent rhrou8h Ordrnance 2o2s-o2, passed Febtuary 4,2025
    Midvale Municipal Code Section 1 7-4-3, Powers and Duties and Title 15, Subdivisions           Page 10of 30


       16.02.030               Contents of preliminary plat.
       16.02.040               Preliminary plat approval process.
       16.02.050               Design standards.
       16.02.050               Expiration of preliminary plat.




    16.02.010 Preliminaryplatrequired.
    A. The purpose of the preliminary plat is to review and plan for the overall development of the
    subdivision. the public improvements required to service the subdivision. and the land
    surrounding the subdivision.

    B. A preliminary plat must be approved for a parcel or lot before a final subdivision plat can be
    approved for that parcel or lot. An applicant may request simultaneous preliminary and final
    subdivision plat approval but bears the risk of having either or both rejected. (ord.2024-01 5          1



    (Att. A))




    15.O2.O2O Application for preliminary plat approva!.

    The applicant shall prepare and submit the following in a format acceptable to the community
    development department:

    A. The preliminary plat.

    B. Fees sufficient to mail out appropriate notices for a public hearing.

I   c. A preliminary title report prepared                         of the           on                            Deleted: thirty

    licensed to practice in the state of Utah, which shows the owner of every parcel or lot of land
    contained within the proposed subdivision.

    D. A signed affidavit or sworn statement in which each owner identified by the preliminary title
    report provides consent to the proposed subdivision.

    E. A grading plan containing the following information:




                The Midvale Municipal Code is current through ordinance 2025-02, passed February 4, 2025.
Midvale MunicipalCode Section 17,4-3, Powers and Dunes and Titte tG. Subdivisions               Page 1lof30


     1   . Property lines, street names, and existing and proposed buildinSs, walls, fences,
     uti,ities, paved areas, and other site improvements; and

     2. Existint and proposed contour lines and spot elevations. Contour lines must show
     every one foot of chante for grades less than five percent, every Evo feet ofchante for
     Srades more than five percent and less than ten percent, and every five feet of change for
     Srades more than ten percent.

     3. Grade shall slope away from structures as required by the applicable building code and
     shall comply with other building codes and standards adopted by the city engrneer.

F. A site plan showing the location of existing structures within the preliminary plat boundaries
and a notation as to whether the existing structures will remain or be demolished.

G. The fee for a preliminary subdivision application as passed by the city coun(il.

H. Subdivision improvement plans and construction drawines showing existine eround and/or



                                                                                                              Dcl€led: preliminary plat

                    nsineer mav adont i ooli.v Pover nins a.l.litional rpd,,
                                                                                                              Formatted: lndent: Left: 0.29'
                    .lrrwine<   All .nn+ri   r.ri.n .lhwino< <hrll h avp thp n.nfp<<r6n^l a
                                                                                                               O€l€rcd: No prelimlnary or finalplat may be
                                                                                                               approved by the cityenSlneer untilthe
l. Any other documents related to the subdivision required by the city's current, published                    conskuction drawings have been dpproved byrhe
preliminary plat application. (Ord_ 2024-30 q 1 (Att. A); Ord. 2024-01 q 1 (atr. A))




16.02.030 Contents of preliminary plat.
The preliminary pldl shallrnclude the following:

A. Scale must be indicated on the plat. (Minimum scale: one inch equals

B- All proposed streets, alleys, parks, open spaces, and other offers of public dedications,
showing widths and pertinent dimensions of each;

C. An arrow indicating north drawn on each sheet;

          The Midvale Municipat Code is currem rhrough Ordinance 2025-02, pass€d F ebtuary 4,
                                                                                                ZO2S-
Midvale Municipal Code Section '17-4-3, Powers and Duties and Title 16, Subdivisions        Page 12 of 30


D. Boundary dimensions and legal description of the entire subdivision;

E. The dimensions, legal description, and square footage of each lot;

F. Street stubs into the subdivision;

G. Legend of symbols;

H. The dimensions and locations of existing and proposed survey monuments, improvements,
irrigation systems, structures, easements, exceptional topographical features, and other
important features such as rail lines and water lines within the land to be subdivided and within
one hundred feet of the proposed subdivision boundaries;

L Description of every existing right-of-way and recorded easement located within the plat for:
     1. An underground facility;

     2. A water conveyance facility; or
     3. Any other utility facility; and
     4. Any water conveyance facility located entirely or partially within the plat that:
          a. ls not recorded; and
          b. Of which the owner of the land has actual or constructive knowledge, including
          from information made available to the owner of the land in the state engineefs
          inventory of canals or from a surveyor;

J. Proposed subdivision name that is distinct from any subdivision name on a plat recorded in
the county recorde/s office;

K. Name and address of the applicant, engineer or surveyor for the subdivision, and owners of
the land to be subdivided;

L. Streets, lots, and properties within one hundred feet surrounding the subdivision shown in
ghost lines and the owner names and parcel numbers of land immediately adjacent to the
subdivision;

M. Avicinitydrawingaccuratelylocatingthepropertyshownontheplat.(ord.2o24-3o5'l(Att.A);
Otd. 2O24-O1 5 1 (Att. A))



          The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2025-02, passed February 4,2025.
Midvale Municipal Code Section 1 7-4-3, Powers and Duties and Title 15, Subdivisions          Page 13of 30


16.02.040 Preliminary plat approval process.
A. Review by City Stoff. The members of the development review committee shall review the
submitted application and plans for compliance with city code, state law, and any other
applicable law.                                                                                              Moved down [1]: The city engineer will review the
                                                                                                             submitted application to determine what public
    1. The city planning director or designee shall review the application for compliance with               improvements are required. As part of its review,
                                                                                                             the city must comply with the requirements of Utah
    all state and local zoning regulations and shall forward the application to other members of             Code Annotated Section 1 0-9a-503(31(d), as
    the development review committee for review.                                                             amended, regarding notice to facility owners of
                                                                                                             water conveyance facilities.

                                                                                                               Deleted: !l
                                                                                                              Delcted: The city engineer will review the
         a. Review the submitted application to determine what public improvements are                        submitted application to derermine what public
         required:                                                                                            improvements are required. As part of its review,
                                                                                                              the city must comply with the requirements of
                                                                                                              Utah Code Annotated Section llll9a:6qi}(3)&l) as
         b. Review the submitted applicatton and all required construction drawings to                        amended, regarding notice to facility owners of
                                                                                                              water conveyance facilities.
         imorovements comply with generally accepted engineering standards. the ciqy's                       Formatted: lndent: Left 0.29"

         construction standards and specifications and any other specifications. standards or                   Deleted: what public improvements are required

         policies established by the city: and                                                                  D€leted: . As part of its review, the city must
                                                                                                                comply with the requirements of Utah Code
                                                                                                                Annotated Section 1 0-9a-603(3Xd). as amended,
                                                                                                                reSarding notice to facility owners of water
                                                                                                                conveyance facilities. The city engineer shall not
                                                                                                                approve the construction drawings unless

   3. The citv must complv with the requirements of Utah Code Annotated Section l O-2O-                         Deleted: y

   803(3Xd). as amended. regarding notice to facility owners of water conveyance facilities.                   Deleted: b
                                                                                                               Deleted: final
B. Review Cycles.                                                                                              Daleted:; and
                                                                                                               Delet€d: tl
    1. For a residential subdivision for single family dwellings, wvo-family dwellings, or                     c. Prior to recording, review the final plat and
    townhomes, the city must complete its review as follows:                                                   surveyor's certification for acceptability.tl
                                                                                                             Formatted: lndent: Left: 0.25", Space Before: O pt
               initial review of the                                       no later             ness           Deleted: t
       after the day on which an applicant submits a complete preliminary plat                                 Deletcd:, including subdivision improvement
       and                                                                                                     plans,...
                                                                                                               Deleted: fifteen
       b. The subdivision plan review of a subdivision imorovement plan shall be completed                     Deleted:
       within 20 business days after the day on which rhe applicant submits a complete                       Formatted: lndent: Left: 0.5"

                                                                                                               Deleted: !l


        The Midvale Municipal code is current through ordinan ce 2ozs-oz, passed February 4, 2025.
L4idvale MunicipalCode Section 17-4-3, Powers and Duties and Title l6, Subdivisions


    2. ln revaewinB a prelimjnary plat the city may require (a) additional information relatinS to
    an applicanfs plans to ensure compliance wath municipal ordinances and approved
    standards and specifications for construction of public improvements; and (b)
     modifications to plans that do not meet current ordinances, applicable standards or
     specifications, or do not contain (omplete information. The citys request for additional
     information or modiflcations to plans under this subsection must be specific and include
     citations to ordinances, standards, or specifications thal require the modifications to plans,
    and must be logged in an index of requested modifications or additions-

    3. After the city has requested additional information or modifications to plans, the
     applicant must provide revised plans to the city. ln addition to revised plans, the applicant
     must provide a written explanation in response to the citys review comments, identifyinS
     and explainint the applicanfs revjsions and reasons for declinint to make revisions, if any.
    The applicant's written explanation must be comprehensive and specific, in(ludinB citations
     to applicable standards and ordinances for the desiSn and an index of requested revisrons
     or additions for each required correction. lf an applicant fails to address a review comment
     in the response, the review cycle is not romplete and the subseqLrent review cy(le may not
     begin until all comments are addressed. lf an applicant makes a material change to a plan
     set, the city has the discretion to restart the review process at the first review ofthe
     application but only with respect to the portion ofthe plan set that the material change
     substantively affects.

     4. The city may require up to four review cycles for a preliminary plat application. After the
     applicant has .esponded to the final review cycle, and the applicant has complied with each
     modification requested in the ciqy's previous revtew (ycle, the city may not requare
     additionalrevisions if the applicanthas not materially changed the plan, otherthan
     changes that were in response to requested modifications or corrections. Unless a chanSe
     or corre(tion is necessitated by the applicant's adjustment to a plan set or an Lrpdate to a
     phasint plan that adjusts the infrastructure needed for the specific development, a chante
     or correction not addressed or referenced in the ci!/s review is waived However, a
     modification or correction necessary to protect public health and safety or to enforce state
     or federal law may not be waived.

     5. ll on the fourth or flnal review, t he city fails to respond within           iness da     the c
     mus( upon request ofthe property owner, and within-lllbusiness days after the da
     which the request is receivedl

         The tvridvale MunicipalCode is currentthrough Ordinance 2025"02, passed Feb(rary 4,2025
Midvale Munic palCode Section 17-4-3, Powers and Duties and T rle r6, Subdiv sions            Page 15 of 30


         a. For a dispute arisint from the subdivision improvement plans, assemble an appeal
         panel in accordance with Utah Code Annotated Section                              to review and      oeleted: I 0:94jso&(5)(d)
         approve or deny the final revised set of plans; or

         b. For a dispute arising from the subdivision ordinance review, advise the applicant, in
         writing, of the deficien.y in the application and of the right to appeal the determination
         in accordance with Sectaon 16.01.110.

     6. lf the applicant does not submit a revised plan within            us ness d     after the
     requires a modification or corre(tion, the city shall have an additional         da     to res ond
     to the plans.

     7. No preliminarv olat mav bp approved by the (iw engineer until the construction
     drawinSs related to the subdivision imorovement olans heve been aooroved bv the (ity
    engineer.

C. Public Heoring. Alter the city development review committee has determined that the
proposed subdivision complies with state law and city code or after four complete revrew
cycles, the planning commission will hold a public hearjnt on the preliminary plat and must
approve or deny the application. The public hearing must be notaced as outlined an Section           ]2
ij and in accordance with state law. (ord 2024-ot q 1 (Att. A)


16.02.050 Designstandards.
The following standards apply to all subdivisions within the city:

A. Lot Stondords. All resulting lots shall comply with the lot standards for the zone district. Lots
shall be perpendicular to the street. Double frontage lots are prohibited unless the planning
commission, with the recommendation ofthe development review committee, determines that:

    I The topography or other unusual condition exists that requires deviation from the
    standard; and

    2. lf the rearyard is adjacent to a collector or arterialstreet, the applicant shallinstalla six-
    foot masonrywall or its functionalequivalent, unless for aesthetic or safety reasons such
    requirement is waived.


        The Midvale Municipat Code is current through Ordinance 2025-02, passed
                                                                                  Feb.JaN 4.2025
    Midvale Municipal Code Section 17-4-3,Powers and Duties and Title 15, Subdivisions          Page 16of 30


    B. Street Loyout.

         1. Streets shall comply with the ciqy's transportation master plan.
        2. Streets shall align with and connect to existing streets on adjoining properties unless
        the planning commission, with the recommendation of the development review
        committee, determines that the general plan, topography, traffic demands or other
        conditions make it better to depart from the system.

        3. Streets shall be laid out in a manner that reduces, to the extent possible, dead-end
        roads and promotes connectrvity.

        4. Streets shall be laid out in a manner that provides future access to undeveloped and
        underdeveloped property.

        5. The planning commission, after recommendation by the development review
        .o.mittee, may grant up to                       bonus or       toa       red                                Deleted: ten percent
|
        frontage, area, and setback requirements when the layout of future access as required                        Deletcd: ten percent

         herein results in a reduction of         or more of buildable units. The bonus or reduction                 Deleted: ten per(ent

        approved bythe planning commission should be roughly proportional to the reduction in
         buildable units due to future access, up to a maximum of,               When            such                D€leted: ten percent

        approval, the planning commission must explicitly make the applicable findings and must
         include the specifics of the bonus or reduction granted in its motion.

    C. Landscoping. Along all streets, the applicant shall install deciduous trees, two inches in
    caliper, for each          of                                                                                   Deleted: thirty


    D. lnfrostructure. All preliminary plats shall include subdivision improvement plans for
    subdivision improvements required by the city engineer pursuant to Section 18.01.010.

    E. Privote Streefs. The applicant may propose private streets within the subdivision so long as
    the proposed street(s) include a right-of-way width                   with           of             installed   Deleted: thirty-five

    to city specifications and fire code, wvo and one-halffeet ofcurb and gutter on each side a                     Deleted: 2

    five-foot sidewalk adjacent to the curb on both sid                                                             Deleted: twenty
                                                                                                                    Deleted: either
         1. Private streets shall align with and connect to existing streets, whether public or private,            Deleted: or a four-foot sidewalk and a five-foot
                                                                                                                    park strip on one side.
         on adjoining properties unless the planning commission, after recommendation of city




             The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2025-02, passed February 4' 2025
M dvale MunicipalCode Section 17-4-3, Powers and Duries and T tle 15. Subdivlsions            Pa8€ 17 of 30


    staff, determines that the general plan, topography, traffic demands, or other conditions
    make h bener to depart from the system.

    2. To the extent possible, private streets shall be laid out in a manner that reduces dead-
    end roads and promotes connectivity.

    3. Private streets shall be laid out in a manner that provides future access to undeveloped
    and underdeveloped property.

    4. The planning commtssion, after recommendation by the development review
    committee, may grant up to a l 09o densiw bonus or uo to a-100/o reduction to width de                    D€l€ted: ten percent
    frontaSe, area, and setback requirements when the layout offuture ac(ess as required                      Deleted ten percent
    herein results in a reduction of                 re of buildable units. The bonus or reduction            Delet€d: ten percent
    approved by the planning .ommission should be routhly proportional to the reduction in
    buildable unit5 due to future accessl up to a maxjmum of              rovidi such                         Deleted: re. p!,( crt
    approval, the planning commission must explicitly make the applicable findings and must
    include the specifics ofthe bonus or reduction granted in its motion.

    5. All new private streets shall comply with the following street lighting standards:

         a. Light sources shall be at least as efficient as LED and no treater than four thousand
         K in correlated color temperature (CCT).


         b. Light fixtures shall use a cutoff luminaire that is fully or partially shielded with no
         light distributed above the horizontal plane ofthe luminaare or into nearby residential
         StructureS.

         c. Luminaires shall be mounted at a height no higher than              feet above the a acent
         roadway.

         d. Streetlights shall be placed at intersections and at a frequency no less than one
         streetli8ht per every one hundred fifty feet of roadway, rounded up to the next whole
         number. Streetlight locations shallalternate sides ofthe street to the greatest extent
         Possible.

         e. Poles and fixtures shall be black, dark brown, or another neutral color approved by
        the community development director.




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current rhrouah Ordinance 2025-02. passed Febtuary
                                                                                           4,2025.
Midvale MunrcipalCode Section 17 4 3, Powersand Dunes and T de r6, Subdivsions              Page 18 of 30


         f. Poles, luminaires, sour(es, and assoc,ated fixtures shall match in construction those
         used on public streets to the greatest extent possible. The community development
         director may exemptan applicantfrom this requirement if the applicant is
         implementing a thematic desiBn which incorporates lithtinS.

F. Lithting Plon. Alithtint plan is requ red for all developments and must contain the following:

    1. Plans indicating the location on the premises, and the type of illumination devices,
    fixtures,lamps, supports, refleators, installation and electricaldetails.

    2. Description of illuminating devices, fixtures, lamps, supports, reflectors, and other
    devices that may include, but is not lamited to, manufacturer catalog cr.rts and drawings,
    including section where required; and photometri( data, such as that furnished by
    manlrfacturers, or similar showant the angle ofthe cutoff or light emission.

    3. A point-by'point light plan to determine the adequacy of the lightjng over the site

G. Drivewoys. Lots which lack frontage on a public or private street, when permitted by the
zoning ordinance, shall utilize access easements. Residential flag lots may share an access drive
for up to two residential structures in addition to any access required by the frontage lot when
the access drive is at least         wide and the units with fronta       on the street have the            Deleted: rwenty feet

required side setback between the unit and the driveway. (ord. 2024-01 5 I (Art. a)




16.02.060 Expiration of preliminary plat.
A. An appliaation for preliminary plat approval shall expire if the application has not been
approved within                after the date
              lat approval shall be considered nLrll and void, and a new a         ication must be
submifted and fees paid. lf an application for final olat aporoval associated with the preliminary


aooli.ation for final ol   :no..vel sh,llilsn hp .on<'.iFrp.l null an.l voi whFn thF ,h6li.erinn


B. An approved preliminary plat expires one year after approval unless a complete final
subdivision application has been filed for all of a preliminary plat or a ponion of a preliminary
plat for a phased subdivision. lf the plat still complies with all applicable laws and ordinances,


         The N4idvale MunicipalCode ls current through Ordinance 2025-02, pass€d Febtuary 4, ZO25
Midvale Municipal Code Se(tion l7-4,3. Powers and Outies and Title 16, Subdivisions         Page 19 of 30


the applacant may make a written request for an extension, and the development review
committee may, in its discretion, extend the validaty ofan approved preliminary plat by six-
month or one-year increments up to a totaloftwo additionalyears for single phased plats and
up to a total offour years for multi-phased plats. (ord.2o24-o1 5 1 (Att. A)




                                            Chapter 15.03
                                       FINAL SUBDIVISION

Sections:
  15.03.010              Final subdivision plat requir€d.
  't6.03.020             Application for final subdivision plat approval
  15.03.030              contents offinal plat.
  15.03.040              Final subdivision plat approval process.
  16.03.050              Requirements for final subdivision plat-
  16.03.060              Expiration of final subdivision plat.




15.03.0'10 Final subdivision plat required.
A. Upon city staff recommendation and planning commission approval of the preliminary plat,
an applicant shall prepare a final plat, which accurately reflects each and every planntng
commission- and staff-imposed requirement including the applicant's offer and dedication of
public lands.

B. A final plat may be submitted for approval concurrently with the prelimjnary plat, provided
the finalplat meetsthe requirements ofthis chapter.lfthe appljcant choosesto submitthe
preliminary and final plats concurrently, the city maintains the raght to deny one or both of the
plats, and the applicant Shall bear all risks associated with their preparation and submittal. (Ord
2024-01 51(Att.A)




        The Midvale Municipal Cod€ is (urent rhrouah Ordinan(e 2025-02. passed February
                                                                                          4,2025
Midvale Municipal Code Section 17-4-3, Powers and Duties and Title 1 6, Subdivisions             Page 20 of 30


16.03.020 Application for final subdivision plat approval.
The applicant shall prepare and submit the following in a format acceptable to the community
development department:

A. The final plat;

B. A preliminary title report prepared                          of the    lication     a title                   Deleted: thirty

licensed to practice in the state of Utah that shows the owner of every parcel or lot of land
contained within the proposed subdivision or a signed affidavit or sworn statement by each
owner identified by the preliminary title report used for the preliminary plat in which each
owner affirms that title for the property has not changed ownership;

C. The fee for a final subdivision application as passed by resolution by the city council;

    A tax               indicati   that all         inte        and                    on the land have          Deleted: D. Construction drawings showinB existing
                                                                                                                 ground and/or asphalt elevations, planned grades
been paid;                                                                                                       and elevations of proposed improvements, and the
                                                                                                                 location of all public utilities. lmprovements shown
   A site       showi      the location of existi     structures within the final         boundari               on the construction drawings shall be in accordance
                                                                                                                 with the preliminary plat;!l
    For a condominium                    a          affidavit     an             who is licensed to              adopt a policy governing additional requirements for
                                                                                                                 construction drawings. All construction drawings
in Utah that states that the condominium declaration, the record of survey map and the other                     shall have the designing engineer or architect state
                                                                                                                 license seal stamped on all submitted sheets. No
supporting documentation comply in all respects with the Utah Condominium Ownership Act
                                                                                                                 final plat may be approved by the city enSineer until
(Utah Code Annotated Section 57-8-1 et seq.) as well as all applicable federal, state and local                  the construction drawings have been approved by
                                                                                                                 the city engineer;!l
laws and ordinances and that when the condominium declaration and survey map have been
                                                                                                                 Deleted: E
recorded in the office of the Salt Lake County recorder that the proposed project will be a
                                                                                                                 Deleted: F
validly existing and lawful condominium project in all respects; and
                                                                                                                 Deleted: G

         other documents related to the subdivision               uired    the                   ublished        Deleted: H

final subdivision application. (ord.2024-30 5 1 (Att. A); otd.2024-01 q 1 (Att. A))




16.03.030 Contents of final plat.
The flnal plat shall include the following:

A. All features required by Section 16.02.030;


         The Midvale Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 2025-02, passed February 4, 2025.
Midvale Muni( palCode Section 17-4-3, Powers and Duties and T rle 16.5ubdivlsions          Page 21 of 30


B. Streets indicating numbers and/or names and lots addressed and numbered consecutively;

C. Boundary dimensions and legal description of the subdivision and each lot therein which
close within one-hundredth of one foot with point ofbeginning clearly labeled;

D. Locataon, width, centerlines bearings and curve data (including delta angle, radius, length,
tangent, and the lont chord on curves) and other dimensions of all existing proposed or platted
streets and easementS;

E. Location, width, centerlines bearings and curve data (includint delta angle, radius, len$h,
tangent, and the long chord on curves) and other dimensions of all important features such as
rail lines, water lines, and exceptional topotraphy withan the proposed area and within a one
hundred-foot perimeter ofthe subdivision. Water system features must appear on the plat;

F. Signature boxes for the following:

    l   Surveyo/s stamped certificate with subdivision boundary legal description;

    2. Owners dedication signed by all owners of any property on the plat;
    3. Salt Lake County health department approval;
    4. Community development director approval;
    5. Planning commission chair approval;
    6. Crty attorney approvalas to form,
    7. City engineer approval;
    8. County recorde/s certificate; and
    9. Mayor's approval.
G. A certification by the surveyor that complies with Utah Code Annotated Section                          O€l€t€d: t0 9a 603r6r(b)
803(6){b). as amended;

H. Dedication language and the date ofthe owne/s dedication on each sheet;




        The Midvale Municipal Code is current throuSh Ordinanc€ 2025-02, passed Febtuary 4,2025
Midvale Muni.ipalCode Section'17-4-3, Powers and Duties and Title 16. Subdivisions              Page 22 ot 30


l. A note indicating the existence of institutional controls or other environmental retulations in
areas where such controls or regulations, particularly Midvale's institutional controls ordinance
(ChapterS-L!]), are in effecq

J. A note indicating that the plat will expire and be void if it is not re(orded within one year of
the date it is approved by the cityi

K. A note indicating the existence of covenants, conditions, or restrictions, if any; and

L. Language conveyint to the association all common areas {as those terms are defined in
Utah Code Annotated Section 57-8a-102. as amended) ifany part ofthe subdivision is to be part
of a community association subject to Utah code Title 5Z chapter 8a" community Association
Act, as amended. (ord. 2024-30 q 1 (att. A); ord. 2022101 5 1 (Att. A))




16.03.040 Final subdivision plat approval process.
A. Review by City Staff. The members of the development review committee shall review the
submifted application and plans for compliance with city code, state law, and any other
applicable law.

     1. The city planning director or designee shall review the application for (ompliance with
     all state and local zoning regulations and shall forward the application to other members of
     the development revrew (omminee for review.

     2. The city engineer shall:
                                                                                                                  D.leted: a. Review all requrred constru.tlon
              Make recommendations to the develo               ent review (ommittee in accordance with            drawinSs The.ity en8 neer shallnot approvethe
                                                                                                                  construction drawings unless they complyw th
          city requirements con(ernint the final pl          and                                                  Senerally accepted engineerinS standards, the
                                                                                                                  citys constru.tion standards and specificatrons
          h. Prior to recordinS, review the final        at and su          certification for        rabili       aro dry other spe fr(atron5 srdndards or polic es
                                                                                                                  established by the ciry!l

     3. All other members of the development review committee shall review the application
     for compliance with state, local, and federal laws and regulations related to their area of                  Deleted: or conslrLrction draw ngs

     expertise.

lt                        tt(vi(tu            FI) r a residential subdivision for single family dwellio

two-family dwellings, or townhomes, the city shall complete the initial review ofthe application,               t. ...
                                                                                                                Formatted: lndent Left: 0


          The Mldvale Mun cipalcode is currentthrough Ordrnan.e 2025_02, passed Febtuary 4,2025.
    l\.4idval€ MunicipalCode   Secrion 17-4-3, powers and Duties and Titte 1G. Subdivisions             Page 23 of 30



I   includingallsubdivisionplanreviewsnolaterthan.lillusines-!d-?y!?IleLtIfdqyqlrytiS\{,---
    applicant submits a complete final subdivision application                                                               Oelet€d: 2. ln reviewing a final subdivision plat the
                                                                                                                             city may require la) addrl'onal information relating
                                                                                                                             to an applicant's plans to ensure.omplance with
                                                            d rior to finala       I of the final
                                                                                                                             municipal ordinances and approved standards and
    subdivision application, the applicant shall complete the required subdivision improvements or                           specifications for constru(tion of public
    shall provide adequate completion assurance pursuant to Section 18.01.020.                                               improv€ments; and (b) modificatlons to plans thar
                                                                                                                             do not meet current ordinan.es, applicable
                                                                                                                             standards or specificatlons, or do not.ontain
    D. Aaprovol ar Deniol fhe development review committee shallapprove the final platif it                                  complete information. The cirys request for
    meets the requirements of the preliminary plat and all applicable laws, ordinances, codes, and                           additionallnformat on or nrodin.arions to plans
                                                                                                                             under this subsection shall be specific and include
    retulations. The development review committee may deny approval of the finalplat ifthe plat                              citations to ordinanres, srandards, or specificarions
    does notcomplywith allapplicable laws, ordinances, codes, and retulations. lfthe request for                             that requirethe rrodifications ro plans, and shall
                                                                                                                             be logged in an index of requested modifications
    final plat approval is denied, the development review committee shall state the reasons for the
    denial in writing.                                                                                                        additional information ormodiflcarionsto plans,
                                                                                                                             the applcant shallprovide revised plans ro the ctty.
                                                                                                                              ln add tion to revised plans, an app|canr shall
    E. SBrotures. After the development review committee has approved the final plat, the                                     provide a written explanat on in response to rhe
    applicantshallprintthe final platon linen or Mylarand obtain the necessary signatures priorto                            (,ry1 ,ev.ew comnenrs. rdenr fy ng and e:ptar.,nB
                                                                                                                             rhF appl(an(s rev.sio'1< dnd reasors fo. de(ln,rg
    recording.                                                                                                               to make revisions, ifany. The applicanr's written
                                                                                                                             e.planat,on sl.all be I omp,e"rensive ind specif,c.
    F. Utoh Geaspotiol Resource Center_ Within thirty days of approval, city staff shall submit an                           in.ludlng otations to applicable standards and
                                                                                                                             ordinances forth€ desiSn and an inder of
    electronic copy ofthe final plat to the Utah Geospatial Resource Center as required by Utah                              requested revisions or additions for each requked
    Code Annotated Section J!?9jqi-i5L i!amended.                                                                            core('on. lf an applkanl larls to aodrers a revrew
                                                                                                                        I    comment in the response, rhe revew cycle is not
                                                                                                                             complete and the subsequent review cycle may nor
    G. Recor.///)"p The owner(s) of an acknowledged, certified, and approved plat shall record the                           beSin unulallcomments are addressed. tfan
    plat in the county recorde/s offlce. (ord. 2024-01 s 1 (Att. A)                                                          applicant makes a materialchdnSe ro a plan set,
                                                                                                                             the city has the drscretion to resrart rhe review
                                                                                                                             pro.ess at rhe first review ofthe application but
                                                                                                                             onlywith respect to the porlon ofthe plan ser thar
                                                                                                                             thematerlal chang€substantivelyaffecrs.{
    16.03.050 Requirements for final subdivision plat.                                                                       4. The city may.equire !p to four revrew cycles for
                                                                                                                             a flnalsubdivision plarapplication After the
                                                                                                                             applcant has responded to rhe finalreview cycte,
    A. The final subdivision plat shall comply with all applicable city ordinances, state law, and                           and the applicant has complied wirh each
    conditions imposed by the preliminary plat.                                                                              rrodrlrrdr on reoue\red,n (he ( rys p evous revrew
                                                                                                                             .ycle, the.ity may.ot requn€ additioml revtsions
                                                                                                                             ifthe applicant has not materiatty c hanged the
    B. All subdivision improvements shall be (ompleted by qualified contractors in accordance                                plan, other than chanSes rhat wer€ in response to
    with the construction standards in Section 18.03.01o. No work may be commenced on public                                 requested modrfications or correcrions. Untess a
                                                                                                                             change or corre.rion is necessitated by rhe
    improvements without first obtaining a permit from the city engineer.
                                                                                                                             applicants adjusrment to a plan ser or an update to
                                                                                                                             a phasing plan that adjusts the infrastrucrure
        1. lf the applicant elects to not finash subdivision improvements prior to re(ording the final                                                                        -
        subdivision plat, then the applicant shall provide (ompletion assurance for all public
                                                                                                                            Delete.l:10-9a 603{t

            The Midvale Municipat Code is currenr through Ordinance 2025-02, passed F
                                                                                              ebruary 4,2025
Midvale MunrcipalCod€ Section 17-4-3, Powers and Duties and Title r6, Subdivisions              PaSe 24 of 30


    improvements as determined by the city entineer. lfthe applicant provides completion
    assurance forthe public improvements, the completion assurance shallcomplywith the
    requirements of Section.l-8-gl.]029.

c. No final subdivision plat shall be approved or recorded until:
    1. The subdivision improvements have been constructed to the satisfactaon ofthe city
    enSineer;or

    2. The applicant for the subdivision has tendered the completion assurance required by
    this chapter and entered into an agreement with the city in which the applicant agrees to
    install the improvements as required by this chapter, and to indemnify and hold the city
    harmless from any claims, suits orjudtments arising from the condition ofthe property
    dedicated to the city, from the time that the property is dedicated to the city to the time
    when the improvements on the dedicated property are finally accepted by the city
    (including the passage of the warranty period); and the owner(s) of the subdivision has
    given written permiSsion to the city or its representatives to enter upon the property
    included within the finalplatto complete any subdivision improvements required bythis
    title in the event that the owner/applicant faals to satisfactorily complete such
    improvements in the time allowed by this title and Title 1.13.

D. The final subdivision plat must be signed by all property owners identified on the title
report.

     '1. lf ownership has changed since the preparation ofthe title report, the applicant must
     provide proofofthe recorded change of ownership to the city.

    2. Any subdivision plat that has an ownefs dedication siSned by someone other than the
     entity who was the owner on the date that the owners dedication was signed is void. (ord.
     2024-0M (Atr. A)




16.03.060 Expirationoffinalsubdivision Plat.
A. An application for flnal plat approval shall expire immediately following the passage of one
year of no activity with respect to the application. "Activiq/' means submission of documents by
lhe applicant for review or responses to comments             the a    licant,       uest for inspection        o€let.d: in a c!rent revlew cyrle


          Th€ Mldvale MunicipalCode is currenl throu8h Ordinance 2025-02, passed Febtrary 4,2025
 Midvale Municipal Cod€ Section 17-4-3, Powers and outies and Title 16, Subdivrsrons        Page 25 of 30


the applicant, or other active communication between the applicant and city olanntng or
engineering staff. Upon expiration, an application for final plat approvalshall be considered
null and void and a new appli(ation must be submitted and fees paid.

 B. The final plat shall expire and be void one year after approval by the development review
committee unless the plat has been recorded_ Upon expiration, new applications for
preliminary and final subdivisions must be submitted. (Ord. 2024-0l 5 I (Att. A)




                                            Chapter 15.04
                               BOUNDARY LINE ADJUSTMENT

Sections:
   16.04.O10             Boundary line adjustment permitted.
   16.04.020             Application for boundary line adjustment.
   15.04.O30              Boundary line adjustment review.




16.04.010 Boundary line adjustment permitted.
This chapter applies to boundary adjustments between two properties where at least one
property is a lot or where one property is a par(el that includes a dwelling unit. The owners of
record of two adjoining properties may relocate the common property boundary line between
the Nvo propertaes by an exchange oftitle if they comply with the provisions of this chapter.
This chapter does not apply to the mergint of two lots or parcels. (ord.2024_01 s 1 (Att. A)




16.04.020 Application for boundary line adjustment,
The applicant shall prepare and submit the following in a format acceptable to the community
development department:

A. A legal description of both the original properties and the properties resulting from the
boundary line adjustment;



         The Midvale MunictpalCode ts cutrenr through Ordinance 2025-02, passed
                                                                                Fe bruary 4,2925.
Midvale Municipal Code Section 17-4-3, Powers and Duties and Title 1 6, Subdivisions          Page 26 of 30


B. Adiagramofthetworesultingpropertiespreparedbyasurveyorshowingthelocationofall
existing improvements, irrigation systems, structures, and easements;

C. A signed affidavit or sworn statement in which each property owner provides consent to the
boundary line adjustment;

D. A notice of approval required by Utah Code Annotated Section                              and     if the   Delered: Lll-9a-606( 5)(b)
boundary line adjustment includes common area or common area and facility as those terms                      Deleted: (C)

are defined in Utah Code Annotated Section                       as amended.                                  Deleted: l!:9a:606


E. A tax clearance, indicating that all taxes, interest, and penalties owing on both properties
have been paid;

F. The fee for a boundary line adjustment application as passed by resolution by the city
council; and

G. Any other documents related to the subdivision required by the ciqy's current, published
boundary line adjustment application. (ord.2024-01 5 1 (Att. A)




16.04.030 Boundary Iine adjustment review
The city development review committee shall review a boundary line adjustment application
and provide written notice of its decision in accordance with Utah Code Annotated                             Deleted: 1 0-9a-524(5)(b)

         The                  review com                  issue a notice of            for a bou       line   Deleted: within fourteen
adjustment if, after review, it determines that:

A. No new dwelling lot or housing unit results from the boundary line adjustment;
B. The adjoining property owners consent to the boundary line adjustment;

C. The boundary line adjustment does not result in remnant land that did not previously exist;

D. The boundary line adjustment identifies and preserves any easements owned by third
parties including, but not limited to, the city, a public utility, a special service district, a culinary
water authority, or a sanitary sewer authority for existing facilities located on either of the
properties; and




         The Midvale Municipal Code is current through ordinance 2O25'O?, passed February 4, 2025.
 Midvale MunicipalCode Section 17-4-3, powers and Duties and Titte 16, Subdivisions          Page 27 of 30


 E. The adjustment does not result in violation of applicable subdivision or zoning
 requirements. (ord.2024-01 5 1 (Att_ A)




                                            Chapter 15.05
                  VACATION. REPLAT, OR AMENDMENT OF PLAT

 Sections:
   16.05.0r0              Subdivision amendments not involving public streets.
   15.05.020              Subdivision amendments involvint public streets.




 16.05.01O Subdivision amendments not involving public streets.
A. Subdivrsion amendments not involving the vacation of all or a portion any public street,
ritht-of-way, or easement and that cannot be processed as a boundary line adjustment shall be
processed as a new subdivision, including the preliminary plat and final subdivision pro(ess.
The preliminary and final plats shall in.lude rhe followint additional features:

     1. The amended plat must depact only the portion of the subdivision that is proposed to
     be amended;

     2. The amended plat must include a plat name distinguishing the amended plat from the
     original plaq

     3. The amended plat must describe the differences between the amended plat and the
     originalplat;

     4. The amended plat must include references to the original plaq and

     5. The amendment must identify and preserve any easements owned by a culinary water
    authority and sanitary sewer authority for existint facilities located within the subdivision.

 B. An applicant shallprovide the notice of approval requ ired by Utah Code Annotated Section
l-G20:89E5}(.t))_q!.dG), as amended, ifthe subdivision includes common area or common area
                                                                                                             D€l€tcd: tO:9a 606(5xbl
and facility as those terms are defined in Utah Code Annotated Section
                                                                                            as amended
                                                                                                             Delercd: 1!tln-6o6

         The Midvale Municipat Cod€ is current throuSh Ordinance 2O2tO2, passed
                                                                                  Febtuary 4,2025
Midvale MunicipalCode Section 17 4 3, Powers and Outies and T tle r5, Subdivisions          PaSe 28 of 30


C. After completion of the final subdivision process, the development review committee shall
approve the amendment af it finds that:

     1   . There is good cause for the vacataon or amendment; and
    2. No public street or muni(ipal utility easement has been vacated or amended. (ord. 2024-
    01 51 (Art. A)




16.05.020 subdivision amendments involving public streets.
A. Subdivision amendments involving the vacation (in whole or in part), alteration, or
amendment of any public street, right-of-way, or easement or the dedication of a public street
shal! be processed as a new subdivision, includinS the preliminary and final subdMision
process.

B. The preliminary and final plats shall include the following additionalfeatures:

     1. The amended plat mustdepict only the portion ofthe subdivision that is proposed to
     be amended;

     2. The amended plat must include a plat name distinguishinS the amended plat from the
     originalplat;

     3. The amended plat must describe the differences between the amended plat and the
     originalplat;

     4. The amended plat must include referenaes to the oriSinal platj
     5. The amendment must identify and preserve any easements owned by a culinary water
     authority and sanitary sewer authority for existing facilities located within the subdivision.

c. The preliminary application shall include:
     1. The name and address ofeach owner of record of land that is:

            a. Adjacent to the public street or municipal utility easement between the tlvo nearest
            public street intersections; or




           The Mldvale Muniopalcode is (urrent through ordrnance 2025-02, passed Febtuary 4, zo25
Midvale Municipal Code Section 17-4-3, powers and Duties and Title 1 6, Subdivisions          Page 29 of 30


           b. Accessed exclusively by or within three hundred feet of the public street or
           municipal utility easemenC

    2. Proof of written notice to operators of utilities and culinary water or sanitary sewer
    facilities located within the bounds of the public street or municipal utility easement sought
    to be vacated;

    3. Thesi8natureofeachownerundersubsection(C)(1)(a)ofthissectionwhoconsentsto
    the vacation; and

    4. A notice ofapproval required by Utah Code Annotated Section                                  and        Deleted: 1 0-9a-5051S){b)
    as amended, if the subdivision includes common area or common area and facility as those                   Deleted: (Q
    terms are defined in Utah Code Annotated Section                         a5                                Deleted: 1 0-9n-606

D. After completion of the preliminary subdivision process, the city council shall hold a public
hearing in accordance with Utah Code Annotated                                    as amended. The             Deleted: lG9&208
council shall approve the vacation or amendment if it finds that:

    1. Good cause exists for the vacation or amendment; and

    2. Neither the public interest nor any person will be materially injured by the proposed
    vacation or amendment.

E. The effect of a vacation or amendment under this section does not impair:

    1   . Any right-of-way or easement of any parcel or lot owner;
    2. The rights of any public utility; or
    3. The rights of a culinary water authority or sanitary sewer authority. (ord. 2024-0.1 s 1 (Att.
    A))




The Midvale Municipal code is current through ordinance 2o2s-o2, passed February 4,
2025.




          The Midvale Municipal code is current through ordinance 2025-02, passed February 4,2025.
Midvale Municipal Code Section 'l 7-4-3. Powers and Duties and Title 16, Subdivisions       Page 30 of 30


Disclaimer: The city clerk's office has the official version of the Midvale Municipal Code. Users
should contact the city clerk's office for ordinances passed subsequent to the ordinance cited
above.

City Website: www.midvalecity.org

Hosted by General Code.




         The Midvale Municipal Code is current through ordinance 2o25-o2, passed February 4, 2025.
