                                   MIDVALE CITY, UTAH
                                  ORDINANCE NO. 2026-0.17

    AN ORDINANCE ENACTING MIDVALE MUNICIPAL CODE CHAPTER 13.24
                 COMMUNITY CLEAN ENERGY PROGRAM

      WHEREAS, in 2019, the Utah State Legislature enacted House Bill 4l l, codified at Utah
Code Ann. $$ 54-17-901 to 909 ("Act"), titled the "Community Renewable Energy Act"; and

       WHEREAS, in 2024, the Utah State Legislature enacted House Bill 241 and Senate Bill
2 l4 which, collectively, renamed the Act the "Community CIean Energy Act" and amended cenain
provisions olthe Act; and

        WHEREAS, the Act authorizes the Utah Public Service Commission ("Commission") to
establish a program whereby towns, municipalities, and counties may cooperate with qualified
utilities to provide electric energy fbr participating customers from clean energy resources
("Program"); and

         WHEREAS, the Act provides that a customer of a qualified utility may be served by the
Program if the town, municipality, or county ("Community") in which the customer resides
satisfies certain requirements, including:

       (a) the Community must enter into an agreement with a qualified utility ("Utility
       Agreement"):

           (i) stipulating to the payment to the qualified utility ofthe costs of

              (A) third-party expertise contracted for by the Division of Public Utilities and the
       Office of Consumer Services, for assistance with activities associated with initial approval
       ofthe Program; and

              (B) providing notice to the Community's customers as provided in the Act;

           (ii) determining the obligation for the payment of any termination charges under the
       Act that are not paid by a participating customer and not included in participating customer
       rates; and

           (iii) identifying any initially proposed replaced asset;
       (b) the Community must, within 90 days after the date of the Commission's order
       approving the Program, adopt a local ordinance that:

          (i) establishes participation in the Program; and




                                                                                                 3
           (ii) is consistent with the terms of the Utility Agreement; and

        (c) the Community must comply with any other terms or conditions required by the
        Commission; and

      WHEREAS, the Act further authorizes the Commission to adopt administrative rules to
implement the Act and the Commission has adopted such rules as set forth in Utah Administrative
Code R746-314-l0l through 402 ("Rules"); and

        WHEREAS, the Rules require that a customer of a qualified utility may be served by the
Program if, in addition to the requirements of the Act, the Community in which the customer
resides also adopts an agreement ("Govemance Agreement") with other eligible Communities to
establish a cooperative decision-making process for Program design, resource solicitation,
resource acquisition, and other Program issues and provides a means ofensuring that eligible
Communities and those that become participating Communities will be able to reach a single joint
decision on any necessary Program issues; and

       WHEREAS, consistent with the requirements olthe Rules, Midvale City entered into an
agreement with other eligible Communities entitled the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement Among
Public Entities Regarding the Community Renewable Energy Program ("Governance
Agreement"), thereby becoming a member of the Community Renewable Energy Agency
("Agency"), which endeavors to make certain joint decisions about the proposed Program on
behalfof Communities as set forth in the Governance Agreement; and

       WHEREAS, consistent with the requirements of the Act, Midvale City executed a Utility
Agreement with Rocky Mountain Power, a qualified utility under the Act, on August 20, 2024,
which addresses the issues required by the Act; and

       WHEREAS, consistent with the requirements of the Act, on January 24,2025, and June
4, 2025, Rocky Mountain Power filed an application with the Commission seeking approval of the
Program and the Commission opened Docket No. 25-035-06 to consider the application; and

     WHEREAS, consistent with the requirements of the Act, on March 4,2026, the
Commission issued an order in Docket No.25-035-06 ("Commission Order") approving the
Program; and

       WHEREAS, as contemplated in the Act, the Midvale City Council desires to adopt this
ordinance that satisfies the requirements ofthe Act; and

       WHEREAS, the Midvale City Council desires to take actions which it has determined
promotes the health, safety and welfare of Midvale's residents as authorized by Utah Code Ann.
$ l0-8-84; and


      WHEREAS, the Midvale City Council has determined that adoption of this ordinance will
enhance the economic well-being of Midvale and its residents through prudent management of
Midvale's financial resources; and

        WHEREAS, the Midvale City Council has determined that adoption of this ordinance will
help address concems related to poor air quality and other environmental concerns due in part to
the use of fossil fuels; and

                                                                                              4
       WHEREAS, the Midvale City Council finds that energy sources utilized by and within
Midvale therefore can impact public health, safety and welfare; and

       WHEREAS, recent advances in energy technology have made certain clean en ergy
resources more economically viable than in the past and, in            e cases- mo   cost-effective than
traditional energy sources; and

       WHEREAS, proximity to outdoor recreation is          Ite    etontnrio co tlr     tor to Midvale
and one which relies on preservation of the environment       p           ion of        resources; and
                                                                  .,
       WHEREAS, Midvale and its residents have sh                       an ln        in environmental
stewardship throuBh various initiatives an d activities surroundi ng gro\\,th and development; and

        WHER-EAS, the Midvale City Council believes that determining and undertaking further
actions designed to reduce fossil fuel dependence while appropriately balancing financial
stewardship and promoting economic growth is an important component of safeguarding public
health, safety and welfare; and

        WHEREAS, the Midvale City Council met in regular session on Jtne 2,2026, to, among
other things, consider adopting the Program on behalf of Midvale's electric customers; and

       NOW, THERE,FORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF MIDVALE
CITY, UTAII, AS FOLLOWS:

        Section 1. Adoption. Midvale Municipal Code Chapter 13.24 Community Clean Energt
Program, which is pubtished as a code in book form, is adopted in accordance with Exhibit A
herein, copies of which have been filed for use and examination in the Office of the Midvale City
Recorder (the "Community Clean Energy Program Ordinance").

       Section 2. Savings Clause. In the event one or more of the provisions of this Community
Clean Energy Program Ordinance shall, for any reason, be held to be unenforceable or invalid in
any respect under applicable laws, such unenforceability or invalidity shall not affect any other
provision; and in such an event, this Community Clean Energy Program Ordinance shall be
construed as if such unenforceable or invalid provision had never been contained herein.

        Section 3. Effective Date. This Community Clean Energy Program Ordinance shall take
effect immediately upon the date of its first publication.

       APPRO\aED, ADOPTED, AND PASSED and ordered published by the Midvale City
Council, this 2nd day of lune,2026.




                                                                                                       5
                                                        Midvale City




                            I STA ,6
                                                        By:     f,- ,dh;
                                                              Dustin Cettel, Mayor

                       a<


ISEALI                                 ,,            VorrNC:
                 It
                            irwr.t{)   t
                   t                                 Bonnie Billings
                                                     Paul Glover
                                                                          Yea
                                                                              "z- Nay _
                                                                          Yea ,.2' Nay _
                              R                      Heidi Robinson       Yea _,7_ Nay   _
                                                     Bryant Brown         Yea y' Nuy _
                                                     Denece Mikolash      Yea   tzl Nay _
ATTEST:


                                            lr\,--
Ro   L.                      C
Citv Recorder


APPROVED AS TO FO



Garrett
          rney




Published thisfuday of June, 2026, on the Utah Public Notice Website




                                                                                             6
                                          EXHIBIT A

                                CHAPTER I3.24
                       COMMUNITY CLEAN ENERGY PROGRAM

Sections:
13.24.O10      Definitions
13.24.020      Midvale City's Participation in Community Clean Energy Program.
r3.24.030      Customer Participation in Community Clean Energy Program.
13.24.040      Termination Fees.
13.24.050      Acquisition of Clean Energy Resources.
13.24.060      Program Rates and Rate Adjustment Filings.
13.24.070      Utility Billing for Participating Customers.
r3.24.080      Midvale City Participation in Program.


13.24.010 Definitions.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, and words shall mean:

A.     "Act" means the Community Renewable Energy Act, codified at Utah Code Ann. 9$54-17-
901 to 909, as amended.

B.    "Commission" is the Public Service Commission of Utah or its successor, as provided in
Utah Code Ann. q 54-17-902(4), as amended.

C,     "Eligible Customer" is defined in Subsection 13.?4.OZO(C| of this Chapter.

D.    "Program" has the same meaning as the "community clean energy program" defined in
Utah Code Ann. I54-L7-902(5],, as amended.

E.      "Rules" means the administrative rules adopted by the Commission to implement the Act
as set forth in Utah Administrative Code R746-314-101 to 402, as amended.



13.24.020 Midvale City's Participation in Community Clean Energy Program
A.     Estoblishment. Midvale City hereby establishes its participation in the Community Clean
Energy Program ("Program") as approved by the Public Service Commission of Utah.

B. Commission Order. On March 4, 2026, the Commission issued the Commission Order
approving the Program. The Commission Order is on file with the Commission. The Program's
rates, Rules, and requirements are governed by the Commission Order, and may be modified
from time to time by subsequent Rules and orders adopted by the Commission. To the extent
that the Commission Order or any subsequent rule or order adopted by the Commission
contradicts any portion of this Title, the Commission Order or rule or order adopted by the
Commission shall govern.

c.     Eligibte customers. Pursuant to utah code 5 54-17-905(5), residential customers

                                                                                             7
participating in the net metering program under Utah Code Title 54, Chapter 15, Net Metering of
Electricity, Rocky Mountain Power Schedule 135, are not eligible to participate in the Program.
All other retail electric customers of Rocky Mountain Power within the current and future
boundaries of the City, including all residential, commercial, and industrial customers, are eligible
to participate in the Program ("Eligible Customer"). Eligible Customers include rooftop solar
customers on Rocky Mountain Power Schedules 136 and 137, which are compensated through
an export credit rather than a net metering credit.

D.      lmplementotion Dote. The Program shall be implemented on the date that Rocky
Mountain Power sends out the first Notices identified in Section 2, below ("Program
lmplementation Date"). Eligible Customers shall be enrolled in the Program if they receive the
Notices and decline to opt out of participation in the Program by the date set forth in the Notices.
Consistent with the Act and the Rules, the Notices shall be sent to each Eligible Customer before
the commencement date that applies to each such customer ("Customer Commencement
Date"), as set forth in the Rules.


13.24.030 Customer Participation in Community Clean Energy Program.
A.    Automotic Enrollment. Each Eligible Customer shall be automatically enrolled in the
Program unless the customer opts out of the Program prior to the Customer Commencement
Date.

B.      Notices. As set forth in the Act and the Rules before any Eligible Customer becomes a
participant in the Program, Rocky Mountain Power first shall deliver to each Eligible Customer
certain notices (collectively, the "Notices") containing content and in the form, manner, and
delivery method as required by the Act and Rules and other orders and rules.

C. Opt-Aut. Each Eligible Customer may elect not to participate in the Program and instead
to pay applicable existing electric rates by giving notice to Rocky Mountain Power in the manner
and within the time period set forth in the Notices.

        '1,.   First Opt-Out Notice. Rocky Mountain Power shall provide a First Opt-Out Notice,
        separate from standard monthly bills, to each Eligible Customer within the City, no earlier
        than 60 days and no later than 30 days before the Customer Commencement Date
        applicable to each customer. The First Opt-Out Notice shall, in all material respects, use
        the form and content of the First Opt-Out Notice as approved by the Commission.

        2.      Second Opt-Out Notice. Rocky Mountain Power shall provide a Second Opt-Out
        Notice, separate from standard monthly bills, to each Eligible Customer within the City,
        at least 15 days afterthe First Opt-Out Notice was provided and at least seven days before
        the Customer Commencement Date applicable to such customer. The Second Opt-Out
        Notice shall, in all material respects, use the form and content of the Second Opt-Out
        Notice as approved by the Commission.

        3.    Lorge Users. Rocky Mountain Power shall deliver the Notices in person to each
        customer with an electric load of one megawatt or greater measured at a single meter.


                                                                                                   8
       4.      Foilure to Opt Out. Each Eligible Customer that receives the First Opt-Out Notice
       and the Second Opt-Out Notice as described herein and declines to opt out of the
       Program by the customer's Customer Commencement Date will be enrolled in the
       Program.

D. Option to Opt into Progrdm. An Eligible customer located within the city that is not
enrolled in the Program may at any time elect to participate in the Program by providing notice
to Rocky Mountain Power in the form and content approved by the Commission. Following such
notice to opt in to the Program, the customer will be enrolled in the Program starting with the
billing period following the notice in which it is reasonably practicable for Rocky Mountain Power
to enroll such customer. The reasonably practicable billing period shall be based on when the
notice was received from the customer and the customer's billing cycle. Following enrollment in
the Program, the customer shall be subject to all Program requirements.

E.     Option to Exit Program. Customers enrolled in the Program may exit the Program by
giving notice to Rocky Mountain Power.


13.24.0,10 TerminationFees,
A.      Terminotion Fee lJpon Exif. lf a customer declines to opt out of the Program prior to the
applicable Customer Commencement Date or voluntarily opts into the Program, but
subsequently exits the Program, the exiting customer may be required to pay a termination fee,
as set forth in this Section.

B.     Amount of Termination Fee. When applicable, the a mou nt of the termination fee shall be
based on the rate schedule of the exiting customer as approved by the Commission and may be
modified from time to time by subsequent orders of the Commission.

C.     Circumstances in which Terminotion Fee Shall Not Apply: A termination fee shall not apply
in the following circu mstances:

       1.      Any customer that opts out of the Program within the "cancellation period"
       applicable to that customer, as defined in the Rules;

       2.      Any customer that ceases to be an electric customer of Rocky Mountain Power;

       3.   Any customer that moves to a new location that is not within the boundaries of a
       community that participates in the Program;

       4.      Any customer that seeks protection through bankruptcy proceedings; or

       5.      Any customer enrolled in Schedule 3 bill assistance ("Low-lncome Lifeline
       Program").


13.24.050 AcquisitionofCleanEnergyResources.
A.     For purposes of this section, "clean energy resource" shall have the definition set forth in
                                                                                                  9
the Act.

B.      Rocky Mountain Power may adopt or procure one or more clean energy resources to
serve the needs and goals of the Program. The acquisition of any such clean energy resource
must follow solicitation application and evaluation criteria approved by the Commission.

C.     Any clean energy resource adopted or procured by Rocky Mountain Power to serve the
needs and goals of the Program must be approved by the Commission based on a finding the
same is reasonable and in the public interest.

D.     The Commission shall determine the method of cost recovery for any clean energy
resource acquired to meet Program needs and goals, and the Commission's determination
regarding cost recovery may affect Program rates.


13.24.060 Program Rates and Rate Adjustment Filings.
A.     Program rates will be determined by the Commission.

B.     The initial Program rates were determined by the Commission in the Commission Order.

C.     Program rates may be adjusted by the Commission from time to time, consistent with the
procedures approved by the Commission for adjusting Program rates.


13.24.070 Utility Billing for Participating Customers,
 Rocky Mountain Power shall bill each Participating Customer on a monthly basis and shall:

A.      include information in its monthly bills to participating customers identifying the Program
cost; and

B.     provide notice to participating customers of any change in rates for participation in the
Program.


13.24,080 Midvale City Participation in Program.
A.     Progrom Porticipotion. Through its membership in the Community Renewable Energy
Agency, the City participated in the design and approval of the program and shall participate in
future decisions regarding clean energy resource solicitation, clean energy resource acquisition,
and certain other Program issues.

B.    Utility Agreement. consistent with utah code 5 5a- 17-903(2)(a), the city entered into an
agreement with Rocky Mountain Power regarding the facilitation of the program (,,Utility
Agreement"). Pursuant to the Utility Agreement:

       1.     The City shall pay for the costs of third-party expertise contracted for in
       connection with the Program's development and initial approval by the Commission;
                                                                                                l0
       2.      The City shall pay its proportional costs associated with Rocky Mountain Power
       providing the Notices to the City's customers as discussed in Section 13.24.O3O;

       3.      Termination charges not paid by a participating customer shall be included in
       participating customer rates and shall not be paid by the City;

       4.    There shall be no initially proposed "Replaced Asset" as that term is defined by
       Utah Code 5 54-17-902(15).

C.     Progrom Development Costs. The City has already approved the appropriation of funds
and has already paid those funds to the Community Renewable Energy Agency for the
Community Renewable Energy Agency to make payments for the costs of third-party expertise
contracted for in connection with the Program's development and initial approval by the
Commission pursuant to the Governance Agreement.

D. Noticing Costs. The City has appropriated funds in its tentative budget for the upcoming
fiscal year to pay its proportional costs associated with Rocky Mountain Power providing the
Notices to the City's customers as discussed in Section 13.24.030 above.

E. No Other Progrom Cosfs. The City shall not be obligated to pay any costs of the Program
other than those costs set forth herein and any costs that the City may bear as a utility customer
that participates in the Program, if applicable.
