June 15, 2010 |
SCHOOL BOARD CANDIDATE
FINANCIAL CAMPAIGN REPORT |
The financial campaign law for school board candidates is in the Utah Code reference |
20A-11-1301 through 20A-11-1305. The law is also printed on page four of this report.
. |
. ‘ |
TO aS / / 1. ZL APL (H County Clerk
* 1
Full Name of Candidate ha nda / ( Sank COS |
, Street Address AS 7YU EF /5OS |
City ar Lee fy , Utah 84.3/ 7
: : . |
Phone: Home _ 455° 4YS- OV AF Business 55 - /2O- 35/7AR
. Office Sthoel omar |
Representative District A
in the Ca Ck a Counw€ f : School District |
TOTALS FROM , TOTALS FROM _ CUMULATIVE |
LAST REPORT THISREPORT — REPORT ,
1. Total contributions of donors who gave more , . |
than $50.00 (from form “A” on page 2) $ tt $ FF $ oa
2. Aggregate total of contributions of $50.00 or less $ $ $ |
)
3. Total campaign expenses . - - ,
(from form “B” on page 3) $ Ce $ As’, 00 $ AS-00 ,
4. Balance at the end of this reporting period $ a $ _ AS AO $_7 AL.O0 }
|
I do hereby certify that, to the best of my knowledge, all receipts and expenditures have been reported for the |
period beginning 0.5 ~ (@ ~ ACIO and ending OG ~/5-40/O0
and that there are no bills or obligations outstanding and unpaid except as set forth in this report.
Date 08 ~O7- Zo/0 Signed Mi X Cerin A
5-4 PG School Fat aE
; Carr Printing Company, Bountiful, Utah . CACHE COUNTY OLERE
Complete Election Supply Service Since 1902 Page 1 RCUD 08 JUN 2010 pa |
mille |
ee _

ITEMIZED CONTRIBUTION REPORT (form ‘A? |

Date Name of Contributor Mailing Address & Zip Code Amount
a |
<<< |

(/f additional space is needed, use blank paper and Uist information like the above format and tile with this report)

. Page 2 |
Po

ITEMIZED EXPENDITURE REPORT (form 8?

Date of Person or Organization :

Expenditure To Whom Expenditure was made Purpose of Expenditure Amount

eplleLle Cache Count ’ Covem mene, Eleibon £, y ag Fees € Mesa. PAS. 00 |
(/f additional space is needed, use blank paper and list information like the above format and file with this report)

Page 3 |

1
; |
20A-11-1301. School board office candidate - separately. to the statement of dissolution. (
Campaign requirements. (c) In preparing the report, all receipts and ’ (3) A statement of dissolution and a final summary i
(1) Each school board office candidate shall deposit expenditures shall be reported as of December 31 of the report may be filed at any time. :
each contribution and public service assistance received previous year. (4) Each school board office candidate shall |
in one or more separate accounts in a financial institution (3) The summary report shall contain a paragraph continue to file the year-end summary report required by 1
that are dedicated only to that purpose. signed by the school board office candidate certifying Section 20A-11-1302 until the statement of dissolution
(2) A school board office candidate may not that, to the best of the schoo! board office candidate's and final summary report required by this section are |
deposit or mingle any contributions or public service knowledge, all receipts and all expenditures have been filed, :
assistance received into a personal or business account, reported as of December 31 of the previous year and that 20A-11-1305. Schoo! board office candidate -—- ;
(3) A school board office candidate may not make there are no bills or obligations outstanding and unpaid Failure to file statement — Name not printed on ballot }
any political expenditures prohibited by law. except as set forth in that report. -- Filling vacancy. |
(4) If a person who is no longer a school board 20A-11-1303. Schoo! board office candidate ~ (1) (a) If a school board office candidate fails to file -
candidate chooses not to expend the monies remaining in Financial reporting requirements -- Interim reports. an interim report due before the regular primary election, sj
a campaign account, the person shall continue to file the (1) Each school board office candidate shall file an on August 31, and before the regular general election, the :
year-end summary report required by Section 20A-11- interim report at the following times in any year in which chief election officer shall, after making a reasonable ;
1302 until the statement of dissolution and final the candidate has filed a declaration of candidacy for a attempt to discover if the report was timely mailed,
summary report required by Section 20A-11-1304 are public office: inform the county clerk and other appropriate election j
filed with: (a) May 15, for state school board office officials who:
(a) the lieutenant governor in the case of a state candidates; (i) shall, if practicable, remove the name of the . :
school board candidate; and (b) seven days before the regular primary election candidate by blacking out the candidate's name before '
(b) the county clerk, in the case of a local schoo! date; the ballots are delivered to voters; or :
board candidate, (c) August 31; and (id) shail, if removing the candidate's name from the. :
(5) (a) Except as provided in Subsection (5)(b) and (d) seven days before the regular general election ballot is not practicable, inform the voters by any
Section 20A-11-402, a person who is no longer a school date. practicable method that the candidate has been :
board candidate may not expend or transfer the monies in (2) Each interim report shall include the following disqualified and that votes cast for candidate will not be :
a campaign account in a manner that would cause the information: 7 counted; and mG
former schoo! board candidate to recognize the monies as (a) the net balance of the last summary report, if (iii) may not count any votes for that candidate. s
taxable income under federal tax law. any; (b) Any school board office candidate who fails to- !
(b) A person who is no longer a schoo! board (b) a single figure equal to the total amount of file timely a financial statement required by this part is :
candidate may transfer the monies in a campaign account receipts reported on all prior interim reports, if any, disqualified and the vacancy on the ballot may be filled
in a manner that would cause the former school board during the calendar year in which the interim report is as provided in Section 20A-1-501. ;
candidate to recognize the monies as taxable income due; (c) Notwithstanding Subsections (1)(a) and (1)(b), a :
under federal tax law if the transfer is made to a (c) a single figure equal to the total amount of school board office candidate is not disqualified if:
campaign account for federal office. expenditures reported on all prior interim reports, if any, (i) the candidate files the reports required by this
(6) (a) As used in this Subsection (6) and Section filed during the calendar year in which the interim report section; =
20A-11-1303, "received" means: is due; (ii) those reports are completed, detailing
(i) for a cash contribution, that the cash is given to (d) a detailed listing of each contribution and public accurately and completely the information required by
a legislative office candidate or a member of the service assistance received since the last summary report this part except for inadvertent omissions or insignificant
candidate's personal campaign committee; that has not been reported in detail on a prior interim errors or inaccuracies; and
: (ii) for a contribution that is a negotiable instrument report; (iii) those omissions, errors, or inaccuracies are
or check, that the negotiable instrument or check is (e) for each nonmonetary contribution: corrected in an amended report or in the next scheduled
- "negotiated; and (i) the fair market value of the contribution with report. :
. (iii) for any other type of contribution, that any that information provided by the contributor; and (2) (a) Within 30 days after a deadline for the filing
“+. + portion of the contribution's benefit inures to the (ii) a specific description of the contribution; of a summary report by a candidate for state school
- legislative office candidate, (f) a detailed listing of each expenditure made since board, the lieutenant governor shall review each filed ;
(b) Each school board office candidate shall report the last summary report that has not been reported in summary report to ensure that:
_ @ach contribution and public service assistance to the detail on a prior interim report; (i) each state school board candidate that is
lieutenant governor within 30 days after the contribution (g) for each nonmonetary expenditure, the fair required to file a summary report has filed one; and :
or public service assistance is received. market value of the expenditure; (ii) each summary report contains the information .
20A-11-1302. School board office candidate ~ (h) a net balance for the year consisting of the net required by this part.
Financial reporting requirements -- Year-end balance from the last summary repoit, if any, plus all (b) If it appears that any state schoo! board
summary report. receipts since the last summary report minus all candidate has failed to file the summary report required
(1) (a) Each schoo! board office candidate shall file expenditures since the last summary report; and by law, if it appears that a filed summary report does not
a summary report by January 10 of the year after the (i) a summary page in the form required by the conform to the law, or if the lieutenant governor has
regular general election year. - ‘Heutenant govemor that identifies: received a written complaint alleging a violation of the
(b) Beginning with the 2008 regular general (i) beginning balance; law or the falsity of any summary report, the lieutenant
election and in addition to the requirements of (ii) total contributions during the period since the governor shall, within five days of discovery of a
Subsection (1)(a), a former school board office candidate last statement; violation or receipt of a written complaint, notify the |
that has not filed the statement of dissolution and final Gii) total contributions to date; state school board candidate of the violation or written
summary report required under Section 20A-11-1304 (iv) total expenditures during the period since the complaint and direct the state school board candidate to
shall continue to file a summary report on January 10 of last statement; and file a summary report correcting the problem.
each year. (v) total expenditures to date. (c) (i) It is unlawful for any state school board
(2) (a) Each summary report shall include the (3) (a) For all individual contributions or public™ candidate to fail to file or amend a summary report
following information as of December 31 of the previous service assistance of $50 or less, a single aggregate within 14 days after receiving notice from the lieutenant .
year: ~ figure may be reported without separate detailed listings. governor under this section. ;
(i) the net balance of the last summary report, if (b) Two or more contributions from the same (i) Each state school board candidate who violates
7 aMy; <tr come : source that have an aggregate total of more than $50 may Subsection (2)(c)() is guilty of a class B misdemeanor. |
7 (ii) a single figure equal to the total amount of not be reported in the aggregate, but shall be reported (ii) The lieutenant governor shall report all .
receipts reported on all interim reports, if any, during the separately. violations of Subsection (2)(c)(i) to the attomey general. |
previous year; (4) (a) In preparing each interim report, all receipts - (3) (@) Within 30 days after a deadline for the filing
(iii) a single figure equal to the total amount of and expenditures shall be reported as of five days before of a summary report, the county clerk shall review each = - |
expenditures reported on all interim'reports, if any, filed the required filing date of the report. filed summary report to ensure that: .
during the previous year; (b) Any negotiable instrument or check received by (i) each local school board candidate that is |
(iv) a detailed listing of each receipt, contribution, aschool board office candidate more than five days required to file a summary report has filed one; and
and public service assistance since the last summary before the required filing date of a report required by this {ii) each summary report contains the information |
report that has not been reported in detail on an interim section shall be negotiated and included in the interim required by this part. |
report; report. (b) If it appears that any local school board
(v) for each nonmonetary contribution: 20A-11-1304. School board office candidate ~ candidate has failed to file the summary report required
| (A) the fair market value of the contribution with Financial reporting requirements - Termination of by law, if it appears that a filed summary report does not
| that information provided by the contributor; and duty to report. conform to the law, or if the county clerk has received a :
(B) a specific description of the contribution; (1) Each school board candidate is subject to written complaint alleging a violation of the law or the |
(vi) a detailed listing of each expenditure made interim reporting requirements until the candidate falsity of any summary report, the county clerk shall,
since the last summary report that has not been reported withdraws or is eliminated in a primary. within five days of discovery of a violation or receipt of :
in detail on an interim report; (2) Each schoo! board office candidate is subject to a written complaint, notify the local school board
(vii) for each nonmonetary expenditure, the fair year-end summary reporting requirements until the candidate of the violation or written complaint and direct
market value of the expenditure; and candidate has filed a statement of dissolution with the the local school board candidate to file a summary report
(viii) a net balance for the year consisting of the net lieutenant governor stating that: correcting the problem. |
balance from the last summary report, if any, plus all (a) the school board office candidate is no longer (c) G) It is unlawful for any local schoo! board :
receipts minus all expenditures. : receiving contributions and is no longer making candidate to fail to file or amend a summary report
(6) (i) For all individual contributions or public expenditures; within 14 days after receiving notice from the county
service assistance of $50 or less, a single aggregate (b) the ending balance on the last summary report clerk under this section.
figure may be reported without separate detailed listings. filed is zero and the balance in the separate bank account (ii) Each local school board candidate who violates
(ii) Two or more contributions from the same required in Section 20A-11-1301 is zero; and Subsection (3)(c)(i) is guilty of a class B misdemeanor. |
source that have an aggregate total of more than $50 may (c) a final summary report in the form required by (iii) The county clerk shall report all violations of
not be reported in the aggregate, but shall be reported Section 20A-11-1302 showing a zero balance is attached Subsection (3)(c)(i) to the district or county attorney.
Page 4 :
