: 2010 |
| . School Board |
(Utah Code Section 2-A-11-1304)
| |
STATE OF UTAH : !
County of __{ Mache .
| Allen Ne Gran i , state that | am no longer
receiving contributions and no longer making expenditures; the ending balance on the .
last summary report filed is zero and the balance in the separate bank account required ;
in Section 20A-11-1301 (Utah Election Code) is zero; and a final summary report in the ,
form required by Section 20A-11-1302 (Utah Election Code) showing a zero balance is
attached to the statement of dissolution. - ;
dane &, Agl0 ( Lire Df Lines
Date Signature of candidate
Subscribed and sworn to before me this Vag ea Z 2 oZ. o fe oC (month/day/year)
Notary Public (or za officer ee to Le ter oaths) :
Date Received = CACHE COLINTY CLERK

e I
oe SCHOOL BOARD CANDIDATE 7 |
FINANCIAL CAMPAIGN REPORT
4
The financial campaign law for school board candidates is in the Utah Code reference
20A-11-1301 through 20A-11-1305. The law is also printed on page four of this report. |
.
|
TO . | } | | 2g Li ay gee County Clerk |
Full Name of Candidate Atlen NA-G run 4 |
‘ Street Address ist & Az] 3é¢0 Wa z. f L |
city. Ht 4 de bak _, Utah 84 34-9 |
Phone: Home__ “4 39 + SL3- 320 40 Business, 439 - 7¢2-6 sod
orice School Aoard Mem ber
Representative District $
inthe Cae he Country School District
TOTALS FROM + TOTALS FROM _ CUMULATIVE
LAST REPORT THIS REPORT ~— REPORT
1. Total contributions of donors who gave more
than $50.00 (from form “A’’ on page 2) $ OC $3 C$ 2 _
2. Aggregate total of contributions of $50.00 or less $ (e) $ CO $_ 6
3. Total campaign expenses -
(from form “B” on page 3) $ O ¢ AS 6$ = on 26.
4. Balance at the end of this reporting period . §$ O $25.00 a en ( as. “0 )
Ido hereby certify that, to the best of my knowledge, all receipts and expenditures have been reported for the
period beginning Mgreh AOIG and ending June 15 AGI6
and that there are no bills or obligations outstanding and unpaid except as set forth in this Rai eiaiad COUNTY CLERK
Date £ J Ane 201 2, Signed ZL does Dating
7 ROUD 08 JUN P10 ands
s4 PG Schoo
Carr Printing Company, Bountiful, Utah 7
Compiete Election Supply Service Since 1902 Pagel

ve ”

\
ITEMIZED CONTRIBUTION REPORT (Form ‘A”)

Date Name of: Contributor : Mailing Address & Zip Code Amount |

wee NN EE ee

(Uf additional space is needed, use blank paper and list information like the above format and file with this report) |

v yO o@ a t
ITEMIZED EXPENDITURE REPORT (form ‘8°)
Date of Person or Organization
Expenditure To Whom Expenditure was made Purpose of Expenditure Amount

March td Ue Cathe Comat Clerk Lilias Fee # 2500
\

a

(Uf additional space is needed, use blank paper and list information like the above format and tile with this report)

Loo _.

Lampaign requirements. 4c) in preparing tne report, al receipts anu (3) A SUALELE TL G2 GISSULIUU dG a Fa) SUL TaL
(1) Each school board office candidate shall deposit expenditures shall be reported as of December 31 of the report may be filed at any time. :
y each:contribction and public service assistance received previous year. (4) Each school board office candidate shall ‘
+ in one or more separate accounts in a financial institution (3) The summary report shall contain a paragraph continue to file the year-end summary report required by i
that are dedicated only to that purpose. signed by the school board office candidate certifying Section 20A-11-1302 until the statement of dissolution |
(2) A schoo! board office candidate may not that, to the best of the school board office candidate's and final summary reporl required by this section are
deposil or mingle any contributions or public service knowledge, all receipts and all expenditures have been filed. :
assislance received into a personal or business account. reported as of December 31 of the previous year and that 20A-11-1305. School board office candidate --
(3) A school board office candidate may nol make there are no bills or obligations outstanding and unpaid Failure to file statement -- Name not printed on ballot
any political expenditures prohibited by law. except as sel forth in that report. -- Filling vacancy.
(4) Ia person who is no longer a school board 20A-11-1303, School board office candidate — (1) (a) Ifa school board office candidate fails to file
candidate chooses not to expend the monies remaining in Financial reporting requirements -- Interim reports. an interim report due before the regular primary election,
a campaign account, the person shall continue o file the (1) Each schoo! board office candidate shall file an on August 31, and before the regular general election, the
year-end summary report required by Section 20A-11- interim report al the following times in any year in which chief election officer shall, after making a reasonable
1302 until the statement of dissolution and final the candidate has filed a declaration of candidacy for a attempt to discover if the report was timely mailed,
summary report required by Section 20A-11-1304 are public office: inform the county clerk and other appropriate election
filed with: (a) May [5, for state school board office officials who:
(a) the lieutenant governor in the case of a stale candidates; (i) shall, if practicable, remove the name of the
school board candidate; and (b) seven days before the regular primary election candidate by blacking out the candidate's name before >
(b) the county clerk, in the case of a local school date; the ballots are delivered Lo volers; or
board candidate. (c) August 31; and (ii) shall, if removing the candidate's name from the
(5) (a) Except as provided in Subsection (5)(b) and (d) seven days before the regular general election ballot is not practicable, inform the voters by any ‘
Section 20A-11-402, a person who is no longer a school date, practicable method that the candidate has been
board candidate may nol expend or transfer the monies in (2) Each interim report shall include the following disqualified and that votes cast for candidate will not be :
a campaign account ina manner that would cause the information: counted; and
former school board candidate lo recognize the monies as (a) the nel balance of the last summary report, if (iii) may not count any voles for that candidate.
taxable income under federal tax law. any; {b) Any school board office candidate who fails to
(b) A person who is no longer a school board (b) asing!e figure equal to the total amount of file timely a financial statement required by this part is
candidate may transfer the monies in a campaign account receipts reported on all prior interim reports, if any, disqualified and the vacancy on the ballot may be filled i
: in a manner that would cause the former school board during the calendar year in which the interim report is as provided in Section 20A-1-501.
candidate Lo recognize the monies as taxable income due; (c) Notwithstanding Subsections (1)(a) and (1)(b), a :
under federal tax law if the transfer is made to a (c) a single figure equal to the total amount of school board office candidate is not disqualified if: ;
campaign account for federal office. expenditures reported on all prior interim reports, if any, () the candidate files the reports required by this
(6) (a) As used in this Subsection (6) and Section filed during the calendar year in which the interim report section;
20A-11-1303, "received" means: is due; (ii) those reports are completed, detailing
(i) for a cash contribution, that the cash is given to (d) a detailed listing of each contribution and public accurately and completely the information required by
a legislative office candidate or a member of the service assistance received since the last summary report this part except for inadvertent omissions or insignificant
| candidate's personal campaign committee; that has not been reported in detail on a prior interim errors or inaccuracies; and
i (ii) for a contribution that is a negotiable instrument report; (iii) those omissions, errors, or inaccuracies are
or check, that the negotiable instrument or check is (e) for each nonmonetary contribution: corrected in an amended report or in the next scheduled
negotiated; and (i) the fair market value of the contribution with report.
(iii) for any other type of contribution, that any that information provided by the contributor, and (2) (a) Within 30 days after a deadline for the filing
portion of the contribution's benefit inures to the (ii) a specific description of the contribution; of a summary report by a candidate for state school
legislative office candidate. (f) a detailed listing of each expenditure made since board, the lieutenant governor shall review each filed
(b) Each school board office candidate shall report the last summary report that has not been reported in summary report to ensure that:
each contribution and public service assistance to the detail on a prior interim report; (i) each state schoo! board candidate that is
" fieutenant governor within 30 days after the contribution (g) for each nonmonetary expenditure, the fair required to file a summary report has filed one; and
or public service assistance is received. market value of the expenditure; (ii) each summary report contains the information
20A-11-1302. Schoo! board office candidate -- (h) anet balance for the year consisting of the net required by this part.
Financial reporting requirements — Year-end balance from the last summary report, if any, plus ali (b) If it appears that any state school board
summary report. receipts since the last summary report minus all candidate has failed to file the summary report required .
(1) (a) Each school board office candidate shall file expenditures since the last summary report; and by law, if it appears’ that a filed summary report does not
a summary report by January 10 of the year after the (i) a summary page in the form required by the conform to the law, or if the lieutenant governor has
regular general election year. lieutenant governor that identifies: received a written complaint alleging a violation of the
(b) Beginning with the 2008 regular general (i) beginning balance; law or the falsity of any summary report, the lieutenant
election and in addition to the requirements of (ii) total contributions during the period since the governor shall, within five days of discovery of a
Subsection (1)(a), a former school board office candidate last statement; violation or receipt of a written complaint, notify the
that has not filed the statement of dissolution and final (iii) total contributions to date; state school board candidate of the violation or written
summary report required under Section 20A-11-1304 (iv) total expenditures during the period since the complaint and direct the state school board candidate to
shall continue to file a summary report on January 10 of last statement; and file a summary report correcting the problem.
each year. (v) total expenditures to date. (c) (i) It is unlawful for any state school board
(2) (a) Each summary report shall include the (3) (a) For all individual contributions or public candidate to fail to file or amend a summary report
following information as of December 31 of the previous service assistance of $50 or less, a single aggregate within 14 days after receiving notice from the lieutenant
year: figure may be reported without separate detailed listings, _ governor under this section.
(i) the net balance of the last summary report, if (b) Two or more contributions from the same (ii) Each state school board candidate who violates
any; source that have an aggregate total of more than $50 may Subsection (2)(c)(i) is guilty of a class B misdemeanor.
(ii) a single figure equal to the total amount of not be reported in the aggregate, but shall be reported (ii) The lieutenant governor shall report ail
receipts reported on all interim reports, if any, during the separately. violations of Subsection (2)(c)(i) to the attormey general.
previous year; (4) (a) In preparing each interim report, all receipts (3) (a) Within 30 days after a deadline for the filing
(iii) a single figure equal to the total amount of and expenditures shall be reported as of five days before of asummary report, the county clerk shall review each
expenditures reported on all interim reports, if any, filed the required filing date of the report. filed summary report to ensure that:
during the previous year; (b) Any negotiable instrument or check received by (i) each local school board candidate that is
(iv) a detailed listing of each receipt, contribution, aschool board office candidate more than five days required to file a summary report has filed one; and
and public service assistance since the Jast summary before the required filing date of a report required by this (ii) each summary report contains the information
report that has not been reported in detail on an interim section shall be negotiated and included in the interim required by this part.
report; report. (b) If it appears that any local school board :
(v) for each nonmonelary contribution: 20A-11-1304, School board office candidate — candidate has failed to file the summary report required
(A) the fair market value of the contribution with Financial reporting requirements -- Termination of by Jaw, if it appears that a filed summary report does not
that information provided by the contributor; and duty to report. conform to the law, or if the county clerk has received a
(B) a specific description of the contribution; (1) Each school board candidate is subject lo writlen complaint alleging a violation of the law or the
(vi) a detailed listing of each expenditure made interim reporting requirements until the candidate falsity of any summary report, the county clerk shall,
since the last summary report that has not been reported withdraws or is eliminated in a primary. within five days of discovery of a violation or receipt of
in detail on an interim report; (2) Each school board office candidate is subject to a written complaint, notify the local school board
(vii) for each nonmonetary expenditure, the fair year-end summary reporting requirements until the candidate of the violation or written complaint and direct
market value of the expenditure; and candidate has filed a statement of dissolution with the the local school board candidate to file a summary report
(viii) a net balance for the year consisting of the net lieutenant governor stating that: correcting the problem.
balance from the last summary report, if any, plus all (a) the school board office candidate is no longer (c) (i) It is unlawful for any local school board
receipts minus all expendilures. receiving contributions and is no longer making candidate to fail to file or amend a summary report
(b) (i) For all individual contributions or public expenditures; within 14 days after receiving notice from the county
service assistance of $50 or less, a single aggregate (b) the ending balance on the last summary report clerk under this section,
figure may be reported without separate detailed listings. filed is zero and the balance in the separate bank account (ii) Each local school board candidate who violates
(ii) Two or more contributions from the same required in Section 20A-11-1301 is zero; and Subsection (3)(c)(i) is guilty of a class B misdemeanor.
source that have an aggregate total of more than $30 may (c) a final summary report in the form required by (iii) The county clerk shall report all violations of
|______not.be.reported.in.the aggregate, but shall be reported __Section 20-11-1302 showing a zero balance is attached _ Subsection (3)(¢)(i) to the district or county attomey.
Page 4
i
\
4 a ee ec
