|
we irs
SCHOOL BOARD CANDIDATE ie a
FINANCIAL CAMPAIGN REPORT a Es
The financial campaign law for school board candidates is in the Utah Code reference fe a
20A-11-1301 through 20A-11-1305. The law is also printed on page four of this report. ei in
TO County Cer Be
Full Name of Candidate fr ee- e- Mice)  K. 5 Ce ee
Street Address _ “294+ 6rst 250 Souft Pos 4845
City, WEN DoW , Utah 84 SAS
Phone: Home _42¢-750- 600 j Business ¢SS - SS/-OF OL
Office ,
. Representative District L
in the CAG Phe (es) wats School District
TOTALS FROM TOTALS FROM | CUMULATIVE .
: LAST REPORT + THISREPORT ~~ REPORT
, 1. Total contributions of donors who gave more . ; ,
than $50.00 (from form ‘A”’ on page 2) $ ( > $ 2 é 16S § 2 } 165.00
. mee) < = pe
2. Aggregate total of contributions of $50.00 or less $ © $ Zz 3S-0 $ CBo-8
3. Total campaign expenses a ;
. (from form “B”’ on page 3) $ 28°9° $ LBie.A)s l ZL. G /
4. Balance at the end of this reporting period $ O $ F 133,03 ¢l ) 133, °3
I do hereby certify that, to the best of my knowledge, all receipts and expenditures have been reported for the
period beginning S-BSir ve __andending_ /O~ SO7 2*2
and that there are no bills or obligations outstanding and unpaid except as set forth in this report.
Date /O~BO.yQe sind_V ke Pare |
5-4 PG School :
Carr Printing Company, Bountiful, Utah ;
Complete Election Supply Service Since 1902 Page 1

, ITEMIZED CONTRIBUTION REPORT (Form “A”) . |
Date Name of Contributor Mailing Address & Zip Code Amount
JO eZ e ey SAVAGE _ S83 We 200 N- Hyun  Bee379 JOO. 0° |
WW-4-IA Baal Ec ¥SDA) 270 Sexvsot Dt Betwonpy 4832  DO-> :
a oo LAr Nevile- Sas wW- Soo 8. Loyod B32) Bee-oD
(Oy Pe Maee. Porte _ Ze, GB nwo NN. Log B39 / DiOC> |
jo-¢-1z __. Jon Npew 953 Grad Veu De Prondsve GBz2 “Qoe 7? :
j0- 29-1 a) Teter jogs “Tylees way tLe wile 3037 00°? .
jors-'% _ \uleg  fBurcH S46 B. 2160 S CienerieD -BaIe  fvo'?° .
W-29-i2. “Teen i deelactee— 255%.9- 1300 w SYEuse ShoIs ZG OO
eet _). Gregg Winer ___48_gastmanse Logan) _8 #52/ __ B00 7°
0-1-7 Lance Bortw Po_ St Wwiennon S325 Soe |
iO-Z6-i2 CHES Tew 33 Siithoo) MT. Be. Cogan S182! 1S:
| ie Bee Verte Flamer. , Peoyinget 6S: °°
(0-302 Cian GRE N (Pgs) 2345 W- 700" we Navbo _ §¢b2y ~§ Gore
Mary.  Wieavge (Prteg GE) {150 bwree’ ts) DC. Penden Seer g50-°°
00612 _ “Gornan Zilles B35 W. 32m $- Logan S¥s2) SO 6°
10-29-12 Mire Loewen b> E 3S6 S. Smita S4335 foo: *”
0-29-12 AnD ps Danasty G20 _N. 35D WwW. Logan 8432) Zero
jO- OF- tt B Ele . CAL Peed WENCE- Boo?
| iD-q@ie Cynthia  Psberazn Logan) Zo
| rrr |
ee
(if additional space is needed, use blank paper and list information like the above format and file with this report)
; : Page 2 |

| ITEMIZED EXPENDITURE REPORT (Form ‘B”)
Date of Person or Organization
Expenditure To Whom Expenditure was made Purpose of Expenditure Amount
t . 4
. ;
(if additional space is needed, use blank paper and list information like the above format and filé with this report)
; Page 3

6. 4 ‘ !
‘« 20A-L1-1301. School board office candidate — Section 20A-11-601. (c)a final summary report in the form required by i
Campaign finance requirements ~ Candidate as a (b) (4) For all individual contributions or public service Section 20A-11-1302 showing a zero balance is attached to ;
political action committee officer. assistance of $50 or less, a single aggregate figure may be the statement of dissolution. :
| (1) (a) @ Bach school board office candidate shall reported without separate detailed listings. (3) A statement of dissolution and a final summary |
deposit each contribution and public service assistance (ii) Two or more contributions from the same source report may be filed at any time. :
| received in one or more separate accounts in a financial that have an aggregate total of more than $50 may not be (4) Each school board office candidate shall continue to
\ institution that are dedicated only Lo that purpose. reported in the aggregate, but shall be reported separately. file the year-end summary report required by Section 20A-
; (ii) A school board office candidate may: (c) In preparing the report, all receipts and expenditures 11-1302 until the statement of dissolution and final
(A) receive a contribution or public service assistance shall be reported as of December 31 of the previous year. summary report required by this section are filed.
from a political action committee registered under Section (d) A check or negotiable instrument received by a !
20A-+11-601; and school board office candidate on or before December 31 of 2QA-11-1305. School board office candidate — Failure :
(B) be designated by a political action commitice as an the previous year shal] be included in the summary report. lo file statement -- Penalties. :
officer who has primary decision-making authority as (3) The schoo! board office candidate shall certify in the (1) (a) Ifa school board office candidate fails to file an
described in Section 20A-11-601. summary report that, to the best of the school board office interim report due before the regular primary election, on !
(b) A schoo! board office candidate may not use money candidate's knowledge, all receipts and all expenditures August.31, or before the regular general election, the chief
deposited in an account described in Subsection (1)(a)(i) have been reported as of December 31 of the previous year election officer shall, after making a reasonable attempt to |
for: and. that there are no bills or obligations outstanding and discover if the report was timely filed: |
(i) a personal use expenditure; or unpaid except as set forth in that report. (i) inform the county clerk and other appropriate i
Gi) an expenditure prohibited by law. election officials who: i
(2) A school board office candidate may not deposit or 20A-11-1303. School board office candidate — (A) () shall, if practicable, remove the name of the !
iningle any contributions or public service assistance Financial reporting requirements — Interim reports. candidate from the ballots before the ballots are delivered i
received into a personal or business account. (1) Each school board office candidate shall file an to voters; or
(3) Aschool board office candidate may not make any interim report at the following times in any year in which (i) shall, if removing the candidate's name from the
political expenditures prohibited by law. the candidate has filed a declaration of candidacy for a ballot is not practicable, inform the voters by any
(4) Ifa person who is no longer a school board public office: practicable method that the candidate has been disqualified
candidate chooses not to expend the money remaining in a (a) May 15, for state school board office candidates; and that votes cast for candidate will not be counted; and
campaign account, the person shall continue to file the (b) seven days before the regular primary election date; (B) may not count any votes for that candidate; and
year-end summary report required by Section 20A-11-1302 (c) August 31; and (ii) impose a fine against the filing entity in accordance
until the statement of dissolution and final summary report (d) seven days before the regular general election date. with Section 20A-11-1003.
required by Section 20A-11-1304 are filed with: (2) Each interim report shal! include the following (b) Any school board office candidate who fails to file :
(a) the lieutenant governor in the case of a state school information: timely a financial statement required by Subsection 20A-
j board candidate; and (a) the net balance of the last summary report, if any; 11-1303(1)(b), (c), or (4) is disqualified and the vacancy on
(b) the county clerk, in the case of'a local school board (b) a single figure equal to the total amount of receipts the ballot may be filled as provided in Section 20A-1-501.
candidate. reported on all prior interim reports, if any, during the (c) Notwithstandiag Subsections (1)(a) and (1){b), a
(5) (a) Except as provided in Subsection (5)(b) and calendar year in which the interim report is due; school board office candidate is not disqualified and the
Section 20A-1 1-402, a person who is no longer a school (c) a single figure equal to the total amount of chief election officer may not impose a fine if:
_ board candidate may not expend or transfer the money ina expenditures reported on all prior interim reports, if any, (i) the candidate timely files the reports required by this
campaign account in a manner that would canse the former filed during the calendar year in which the interim report is section in accordance with Section 20A-11-103;
school board candidate to recognize the money as taxable due; . (ii) those reports are completed, detailing accurately and
income under federal tax law. (d) a detailed listing of each contribution and public completely the information required by this part except for
(b) A person who is no longer a school board candidate service assistance received since the last summary report inadvertent omissions or insignificant errors or
may transfer the money in a campaign account in a manner that has not been reported in detail on a prior interim inaccuracies; and
that -would cause the fommer school board candidate to report; Gii) those omissions, errors, or inaccuracies described in
recognize the money as taxable income under federal tax (e) for each nonmonetary contribution: Subsection (1)(c)(ii) are corrected in:
law if the transfer is made to a campaign account for (i) the fair market value of the contribution with that (A) an amended report; or
federal office. information provided by the contributor; and (B) the next scheduled report.
(6) (@) As used in this Subsection (6) and Section 20A- _ (ii) a specific description of the contribution; : (2) (a) Within 30 days after a deadline for the filing ofa
11-1303, "received" means; (a detailed listing of each expenditure made since the summary repert by a candidate for state school hoard, the :
| i) for a cash contribution, that the cash is given to a Jast summary report that has not been reported in detail on lieutenant govemor shall review each filed summary report
school board office candidate or a member of the a prior interim report; to ensure that:
candidate's personal campaign committee; (g) for each nommonetary expenditure, the fair market G) each state school board candidate that is required to
(ii) for a contribution that is a negotiable instrument or value of the expenditure; file a summary report has filed one; and
check, that the negotiable instrument or check is (h) a net balance for the year consisting of the net (ii) each summary report contains the information
negotiated; and balance from the last summary report, if any, plus all required by this part.
(iii) for any other type of contribution, that amy portion receipts since the last summary report minus all (b) [fit appears that any state school board candidate
of the contribution's benefit inures to the school board. expenditures since the last summary report; has failed to file the summary report required by law, ifit :
office candidate, (i) a summary page in the form required by the appears that a filed summary report does not conform to :
(b) Each school board office candidate shall repart to lientenant governor that identifies: the law, or if the lieutenant governor has received a written |
the chief election officer each contribution and public (i) beginning balance; complaint alleging a violation of the law or the falsity of |
service assistance within 30 days after the contribution or Gi) total contributions during the period since the last any summary report, the lieutenant governor shall, within :
public service assistance is received. statement; five days of discovery of a violation or receipt of a written :
; Gii) total contributions to date; complaint, notify the state schoo! board candidate of the :
20A-11-1302. School board office candidate ~ (iv) total expenditures during the period since the last violation or written complaint and direct the state school an
Financial reporting requirements — Year-end summary statement; and board candidate to file a summary report correcting the :
report. (v) total expenditures to date; and problem. :
(1) (a) Each school board office candidate shall file a (j} the name of a political action committee for which (c) @) [tis unlawful for any state school board candidate |
summary report by January 10 of the year after the regular the school board office candidate is designated as an to fail to file or amend a sunamary report within 14 days
general election year. officer who has primary decision-making authority under after receiving notice from the lieutenant govemor under }
(b) in addition to the requirements of Subsection (1){a), Section 204-11-50i. this section. :
a former school board office candidate that has not filed the (3) (a) For all individual contributions or public service (ii) Each state school board candidate who violates |
statement of dissolution and final summary report required assistance of $50 or less, a single aggregate figure may be Subsection (2}(c)(i) is guilty of a class B misdemeanor. |
under Section 20-11-1304 shall continue to file a reported. without separate detailed listings. (ii) The lieutenant governor shall report all violations :
summary report on Jamary 10 of each year. (b) Two or more contributions from the same source ~ of Subsection (2)(c)(i) to the attorney general.
(2) (2) Bach summary report shall include the following that have an aggregate total of more than $50 may not be (3) (a) Within 30 days after a deadline for the filing of a :
information as of December 31 of the previous year: reported in the aggregate, but shall be reported separately. summary report, the county clerk shall review each filed |
(i) the net balance of the last financial statement, ifany; (4) (a) In preparing each interim report, all receipts and summary report to ensure that: |
(ii) a single figure equal to the total amount of receipts expenditures shall be reported as of five days before the (i) each.local school board candidate that is required to I
reported on all interim reporis, if any, during the previous required filing date of the repost. file a summary report has filed one; and |
year; (b) Any negotiable instrument or check received by a (ii) each surmmary report contains the information !
(iii) a single figure equal to the total amount of school board office candidate more than five days before required by this part. |
expenditures reported on all interim reports, if any, filed the required filing date of a report required by this section (b) If it appears that any local school board candidate |
during the previous year, shail be included in the interim report. has failed to file the summary report required by law, if it i
(iv) a detailed listing of each receipt, contribution, and appears that a filed summary report does not conform to !
public service assistance since the last summary report that 20A4-11-1304. School board office candidate — the law, or if the county clerk has received a written
has not been reported in detail on an interim report; Financial reporting requirements — Termination of complaint alleging a violation of the law or the falsity of |
(v) for each nonmonetary contribution: duty to report. any summary report, the county clerk shall, within five |
(A) the fair market value of the contribution with that (1) Each school board candidate is subject to interim days of discovery of a violation or receipt of a. written
information provided by the contributor; and reporting requirements until the candidate withdraws or is complaint, notify the local school board. candidate of the
(B) a specific description of the contribution; eliminated in a primary. violation or written complaint and direct the local school ;
(vi) a detailed listing of each expenditure made since the (2) Each school board office candidate is subject to board candidate to file a summary report correcting the :
Jast summary report that has not been reported in detail on year-end summary reporting requirements until the problem. }
an interim report; candidate has filed a statement-of dissolution with the (c)-G) It is unlawful for any local school board ;
(vil) for each nonmonetary expenditure, the fair market lieutenant governor siating that: candidate to fail to file or amend. a summary report within '
value of the expenditure; (a) the school board office candidate is no longer 14 days after receiving notice from the county clerk under :
(viii) a net balance for the year consisting of the net receiving contributions and is no longer making this section. .
balance from the last summary report, if any, plus all expenditures; (ii) Each local school board candidate who violates
receipts minus all expenditures; and (b) the ending balance on the last summary report filed Subsection (3){c)(i) is guilty of a class B misdemeanor. |
(ix) the name of a political action committee for which is zero and the balance in the separate bank account iii) The county clerk shall report all violations of
the school board office candidate is designated as an required in Section 20A-11-1301 is zero; and Subsection (3)(c)(i) to the district or county attorney.
; officer who has primary decision-making authority under
: |
| Page 4
we oe ee oe
