} .
| ‘ .
| SCHOOL BOARD CANDIDATE ce, B
| FINANCIAL CAMPAIGN REPORT oe F
The financial campaign law for school board candidates is in the Utah Code reference = re
20A-11-1301 through 20A-11-1305. The law is also printed on page four of this report. = ee
i iid m0
=e 2
TO awe County Clerk ‘et
Full Name of Candidate ‘ WA ranse)
Street Address VA u \ \ ‘ SO c ;
City en ma rl é \d , Utah 842335
Phone: Home (2S ) aN oa) ay 2fo Business
Office
Representative District —Gutlteeld GE
in the ( Gi ( We ; School District
TOTALS FROM + TOTALS FROM — CUMULATIVE
LAST REPORT THIS REPORT ~— REPORT :
1. Total contributions of donors who gave more 5
than $50.00 (from form “A” on page 2) $ C $ ie) $ ©
2. Aggregate total of contributions of $50.06 or less $ ( > $ a) __ 3. O
3. Total campaign expenses _ ;
(from form “B” on page 3) $ 2 § (1? ©
4. Balance at the end of this reporting period $ @ $ © $ ©
it
I do hereby certify that, to the best of my knowledge, all receipts and expenditures have been reported for the }
period beginning Celolgr 2010 and ending _ \ANW Ud tu ‘| 0) ! Ao ie |
and that there are no bills or obligations outstanding and unpaid except as set forth in this report. |
pote 12/22) we ety hina)
|
[oo ie nner ae ani aes on manana aS Sa as as aaa es eae ss Senna a mig meso ne ~
5-4 PG School }
Do Carr Printing Company, Bountiful, Utah |
i Complete Election Supply Service Since 1902 Page i |
| , w
en tne cena _

‘ ITEMIZED CONTRIBUTION REPORT (Form “A”)
Date Name of Contributor Mailing Address & Zip Code Amount
— ee 00000 00 a
(If additional space is needed, use blank paper. and list information like the above format and file with ‘this report) OO
| Page 2

. ITEMIZED EXPENDITURE REPORT (Form “B’) |
Date of Person or Organization |
Expenditure To Whom Expenditure was made Purpose of Expenditure Amount |
!
|
a
|
a i
|
a Ii I — IE
: |
a ame
|
I |
a
|
|
|
ce
|
a
a
OO
a
I a—_—SS,_ e :
a
a
a
,
OO ,
a
a
Nn
a IIS
a
a
I I
a
i i
a
i (if additional space is needed, use blank paper and list information like the above format and file with this report) 7
Page 3

|
!
20A-11-1301. School board office candidate - Section 20A-11-601. (c)a final summary report in the form required by i
5 Campaign finance requirements -- Candidate as a (b) (i) For all individual contributions or public service Section 20A-11-1302 showing a zero balance is attached to |
political action committee officer. assistance of $50 or less, a single aggregate figure may be the statement of dissolution. :
(1) (a) (i) Bach school board office candidate shall reported without separate detailed listings. (3) A statement of dissolution and a final summary |
deposit each contribution and public service assistance (ii) Two or more contributions from the same source report may be filed at any time.
received in one or more separate accounts in a financial that have an aggregate total of more than $50 may uot be (4) Each school board office candidate shall continue to i
institution thut are dedicated only to that purpose. reported in the aggregate, but shall be reported separately. file the year-end summary report required by Section 20A- |
(i) A school board office cundidate may: (c) In preparing the report, all receipts and expenditures 11-1302 until the statement of dissolution and final |
(A) receive a contribution or public service assistance shall be reported as of December 31 of the previous year. summary report required by this section are filed. |
from a political action committee registered under Section (d) A check or negotiable instrument received by a :
20A-11-601; and school board office candidate on or before December 31 of 20A-11-1305. School board office eandidate — Failure
(B) be designated by a political action committee as an ihe previous year shall be included in the summary report. to file statement -- Penaities. |
. officer who has primary decision-making authority as (3) The school board office candidate shall certify in the (1) (a) Ifa school board office candidate fails to file an \
described in Section 20A-11-601. summary report that, to the best of the school board office interim report due before the regular primary election, on :
(b) A school board office candidate may nol use money candidate's knowledge, all receipts and all expenditures August 31, or before the regular general election, the chief
deposited in an account described in Subsection (1)(a)(i) have been reporied as of December 3] of the previous year election officer shall, afler making a reasonable attempt to |
for: and that there are no bills or obligations outstanding and. discover if the report was timely filed: :
(i) a personal use expenditure; or unpaid except as set forih in that report. (i) infonn the county clerk and other appropriate i
(ii) an expenditure prohibited by law. election officials who: :
(2) A school board office candidate may not deposit or 20A-11-1303. School board office candidate — (A) (1) shall, if practicable, remove the name of the i
miugle any contributions or public service assistance Financial reporting requirements — Interim reports. candidate from the ballots before the ballots are delivered |
yeceived into a personal or business account. (1) Each school board office candidate shall file an to voters; or
(3) A school board office candidate may not make any interim report at the following times in any year in which (IL) shall, if removing the candidate's name from the :
political expenditures prohibited by law. the candidate has filed a declaration of candidacy fora ballot is not practicable, inform the voters by any :
(4) Lf a person who is no longer a school board public office: practicable method that the candidate has been disqualified
candidate chooses not to expend the money remaining ina (a) May 15, for state school board office candidates; and that votes cast for candidate will not be counted; and :
campaign account, the person shall continue to file the (b) seven days before the regular primary election date; (B) may not count any votes for that candidate; and
year-end summary report required by Section 20A-11-1302 (c} August 31; and (ii) impose a fine against the filing entity in accordance
‘until the statement of dissolution and final summary report (d) seven days before the regular general election date. with Section 20A-11-1005. :
required by Section 20A-1 1-1304 are filed with: (2) Each interim report shall include the following (b} Any school board office candidate who fails to file j
(a) the licutenant governor in the case ofa state school information: timely a financial statement required by Subsection 20A- '
board candidate; and (a) the net balance of the last summary report, ifany; 11-1303(1}(b), (c), or (d) is disqualified and the vacancy on \
(b) the county clerk, in the case of a local school board (b) a single figure equal to the total amount of receipts the ballot may be filled as provided in Section 20A~-1-501.
candidate. reported on all prior interim reports, if any, during the (c) Notwithstanding Subsections (1)(a) and (1)(b), a |
(5) (aj Except as provided in Subsection (5)(b) and calendar year in which the interim report is due; school board office candidate is not disqualified and the |
Section 204-11-402, a person who is no longer a school (c) a single figure equal to the total amount of chief election officer may not impose a fine ift ,
board candidate may not expend or transfer the money ina expenditures reported on all prior interim reports, if any, (i) the candidate timely files the reports required by this :
campaign account in a manner that would cause the former filed during the calendar year in which the interim report is section in accordance with Section 20A-11-103;
schoo! board candidate to recognize the money as taxable due; wy (ii) those reports are completed, detailing accurately and :
income under federal tax law. (d) a detailed listing of each contribution and public completely the information required by this part except for
(b) A person who is no longer a school board candidate service assistance received since the last summary report inadvertent omissions or insignificant errors or j
may transfer the money in a campaign account in a manner that has not been reported in detail on a prior interim inaceuracies; and \
that-would cause the former school board candidate to report; (ii) those omissions, errors, or inaccuracies described in ‘
recognize the mouey as taxable income under federal tax (e) for each nonmonetary contribution: Subsection (1)(c)(ii) are corrected in: i
law if the transfer is made to a campaign account for (i) the fair market value of the contribution with that (A) an amended report; or :
federal office. information provided by the contributor; and (B) the next scheduled report. :
(6) (a) As used in this Subsection (6) and Section 20A- (ii) a specific description of the contribution; (2) (a) Within 30 days after a deadline for the filing of a :
11-1303, "received" means: (4) a detailed listing of each expenditure made since the summary report by a candidate for state school board, the
(i) for a cash contribution, that the cash is given to a last summary report that has not been reported. in detail on lieutenant govemor shall review each filed summary report
school board office candidate or a member of the a prior interim report; to ensure that:
candidate's personal campaign committee; (g) for each nonmonelary expenditure, the fair market (i) each state school board candidate that is required to :
(ii) for a contribution that is a negotiable instrument or value of the expenditure; file a summary report has filed one; and
check, that the negotiable instrument or check is (h) anet balance for the year consisting of the net (ii) each summary report contains the information
negotiated; and balance from the last summary report, if any, plus all required by this part.
(Gii} for any other type of contribution, that any portion receipts since the last summary report minus all (b) If it appears that any state school board candidate
of the contribution's benefit inures to the school board expenditures since the last summary report; has failed to file the summary report required by law, if it
office candidate. (i) a summary page in the form required by the appears that a filed summary report does not conform to
(b) Each school hoard office candidate shall report ta Hentenant governor that identifies: the law, or if the lieutenant govemor has received a written :
the chief election officer each contribution and public G) beginning balance; complaint alleging a violation of the law or the falsity of :
service assistance within 30 days after the contribution or (ii) total contributions during the period since the last any summary report, the lieutenant governor shall, within j
public service assistance is received. , statement; five days of discovery of a violation or receipt of a written
(ii) total contributions to date: complaint, notify the state school board candidate of the f
2WA-11-1302. Schoal board office candidate ~ (iv) total expenditures during the period since the last violation or written complaint and direct the state school !
Financial reporting requirements — Year-end summary statement; and board candidate to file a summary report correcting the
report. (v) total expenditures to date; and problem. |
(1) (a) Each school board office candidate shall file a (j) the name of a political action committee for which (c) @) [tis unlawful for any state school board candidate
summary report by January 10 of the year after the regular the school board office candidate is designated as an to fail to file or amend a summary report within 14 days |
general election year. officer who has primary decision-making authority under after receiving notice from the Heutenani governor under
(b) in addition to the requirements of Subsection (1}(a)}, Section 20A-11-601. ibis section. |
a former school board office candidate that has uot filed the (3) (a) For ali individuai contributions or public service (ii) Each state school board candidate who violates |
statement of dissolution and final summary report required assistance of $50 or Jess, a single aggregate figure may be Subsection (2)(c)G) is guilty of a class B misdemeanor. |
under Section 20A~-11-1304 shall continue to file a reported without separate detailed listings. (ii) The liewtenant governor shall report all violations
summacy report on Jnmary 10 of each year, (b) Two or more contributions from the same source of Subsection (2}(c)(i) to the attorney general.
(2) (a) Each summary report shail include the following that have an aggregate total of more than $50 may not be (3) (a) Within 30 days afier a deadline for the filing of a
information as of December 31 of the previous year: reported in the aggregate, but shall be reported separately. summary report, the county clerk shali review each filed
(i) the net balance of the last financial statement, ifany; (4) (a) In preparing each interim report, all receipts and sumunary report to ensure that:
Gi) a single figure equal to the total amount of receipts expenditures shall be reported as of five days before the (i) each local schoo! board candidate that is required to
reported on all interim reports, if any, during the previous required filing date of the report. file a summary report has filed one; and
year; (b) Any negotiable instrument or check received by a (ii) each summary repori contains the information
(iii) a single figure equal to the total amount of school board office candidate more than five days before required by this part.
expenditures reported on all interim reports, if any, filed the required filing date of a report required by this section (b) If it appears that any local school board candidate
during the previous year; shall be included in the interim report. has failed to file the summary report required by law, if it
(iv) a detailed listing of each receipt, contribution, and appears that a filed summary report does not conform to
public service assistance since the last summary report that 20A-11-1304. School board office candidate — the law, or if the county clerk has received a written
has not been reported in detail on an interim report; Financial reporting requirements — Termination of complaint alleging a violation of the law or the falsity of
(¥) for each nonmonetary coniribution: duty to report. any summary report, the county clerk shall, within five
(A) the fair market value of the contribution with that (1) Each school board candidate is subject to interim days of discovery of a violation or receipt of a written
information provided by the contributor: and reporting requirements until the candidate withdraws or is complaint, notify the local school board candidate of the
(B8} a specific description of the contribution; eliminated in a primary. violation or written complaint and direct the local school
(vi) a detailed listing of each expenditure made since the (2) Each school board office candidate is subject to board candidate to file a summary report correcting the
Jast summary report that has not been reported in detail on year-end summary reporting requirements until the problem.
an interim report; candidate has filed a statement of dissolution with the (c} G) It is unlawful for any local schoo! board
(vil) for each nonmonetary expenditure, the fair market lieutenant govemor siating that: candidate to fail to file or amend a swmmmary report within
value of the expenditure; (a) the school board office candidate is no longer 14 days after receiving notice from the county clerk under
(viii) a net balance for the year consisting of the net receiving coutributions and is no longer making this section. .
I. _____balance from the last summary report, fany,plusall ss expenditures; (ii) Each local school board candidate who violates
| receipts minus all expenditures; and ~~~ "(b) the ending balance of the tast'summary report filed- — -—Subsection-(3}(c)(i)} is guilty-of a class-B.misdemeanor_.- .. -.—.---
! (ix) the name of a political action committee for which is zero and the balance in the separate bank account (iii) The county clerk shal! report all violations of
| the school board office candidate is designated as an sequired in Section 20A-11-1301 is zero; and Subsection (3}(c)(i) to the district or county attorney.
officer who has primary decision-making authority under
| Page 4
. ast
