_ FINANCIAL CAMPAIGN REPORT i Ss |
The financial campaign law is in the Utah Code reference 17-16-6.5. En Pa
The law is also printed on page four of this report. = ist
sad Pia] t
TO Cache — Ceiinty Clerk #3 !

a 7 fe mS a,

Full Name of Candidate Larry Martie Frankia ~~ ne
Street Address £94 Fast 400 Narip |

City Log ar) __, Utah 8434 /
Phone: Home G35) 15 3-25/y4 ; Business (735) 197-18 35h
Name of Office County Counei| ——________

ottice visti Districh 1, Logan |
Political pay Democral ie Parhy
Date_(/& Z ¢ dof Signed 4 Dn . ot

Candidate :
TOTALS FROM TOTALS FOR . CUMULATIVE
LAST REPORT + THIS REPORT = REPORT
1. Total contributions of donors who gave ; |
more than $50.00
(from form “A” on page 2 of this report) ........ $ _ GF $ a - $ a -
2. Aggregate total of contributions . |
of $50.00 OF 68S... sees seeereeeeeeeeee se $ ——<___ $ —_F ee & |
3. Total campaign expenses . :
(from form “B” on page 3 of this report) ........ a — a §$ rr a ©
4. Balance at the end of this reporting period.......5 a - $ —_ F $ a </ |
|
_ |
5-5-PG : :
Carr Printing Company, Bountiful, Utah ji
Complete Election Supply Service Since 1902 Page 1 |

ST . ITEMIZED CONTRIBUTION REPORT (form “A”)

Date . Name of Contributor " Mailing Address & Zip Code Amount
eee |
; |
TT A |
eee j
COO -COrvh mn 5 — ee ( |
eS |
eee |
SSeS |
: '
. . \
(additional space fs needed, use blank paper and list information like the above format and file with this report) |
Page 2 i
|

y ITEMIZED EXPENDITURE REPORT (form ‘8”
Date of Person or Organization :
Expenditure To Whom Expenditure was made Purpose of Expenditure Amount
SSeS
. !
a a |
(f additional space Is needed, use blank paper and list information like the above format and tle’ with this report)
Page 3
’ J
1

we 17-16-6.5. Campaign financial disclosure in who are eliminated at a primary election shall file a
| county elections. signed campaign financial statement containing the
! (1) (a) By January 1, 1996, each county shall information required by this .
adopt an ordinance establishing campaign finance section not later than 30 days after the primary
disclosure requirements for candidates for county election. -
: office. (6) Any person who fails to comply with this
(b) The ordinance shall include: section is guilty of an infraction.
| (i) a requirement that each candidate for county (7) Counties may, by ordinance, enact
i office report his itemized and total campaign requirements that:
contributions and expenditures at least once within (a) require greater disclosure of campaign
the two weeks before the election and at least once contributions and expenditures, and
within two months after the election; (b) impose additional penalties.
Gi) a definition of "contribution" and expenditure" (8) (a) Ifa candidate fails to file an interim report
that requires reporting of nonmonetary contributions due before the election, the county clerk shall, after
such as in-kind contributions and contributions of making a reasonable attempt to discover if the report
tangible things; and was timely mailed, inform the appropriate election
(ii) a requirement that the fmancial reports officials who:
‘ identify: (i) shall, if practicable, remove the name of the
(A) for each contribution of more than $50, the candidate by blacking out the candidate's name
name of the donor of the contribution and the before the ballots are delivered to voters; or
amount of the contribution; and (ii) shall, if removing the candidate's name from
: (B) for each expenditure, the name of the the ballot is not practicable, inform the voters by any
recipient and the amount of the expenditure. practicable method that the candidate has been
(2) (a) Except as provided in Subsection (2)(), if disqualified and that votes cast for the candidate will
any county fails to adopt a campaign finance not be counted; and
disclosure ordinance by January 1, 1996, candidates (iii) may not count any votes for that candidate.
. for county office shall comply with the financial (b) Notwithstanding Subsection (8)(a), a
reporting requirements contained in Subsections (3) candidate is not disqualified if: :
through (6). (i) the candidate files the reports required by this
(b) If, after August 1, 1995, any county adopts a section;
campaign finance ordinance meeting the (ii) those reports are completed, detailing
requirements of Subsection (1), that county need not _ accurately and completely the information required
comply with the requirements of Subsections (3) by this section except for inadvertent omissions or
through (6). insignificant errors or inaccuracies; and
(3) (a) Except as provided in Subsection (3)(b), (iii) those omissions, errors, or inaccuracies are
and if there is no county ordinance meeting the corrected in. an amended report or in the next
requirements of this section, each candidate for scheduled report.
elective office in any county who is not required to (c) A report is considered filed if:
submit a campaign fimancial statement to the (i) it is received in the county clerk's office no
lieutenant governor shall file a signed campaign jater than 5 p.m. on the date that it is due;
financial statement with the county clerk: (ii) it is received in the county clerk's office with a
. (seven days before the date of the regular U.S. Postal Service postmark three days or more
general election, reporting each contribution of more - before the date that the report was due; or
than $50 and each expenditure as of 10 days before Gii) the candidate has proof that the report was
the date of the regular general election; and mailed, with appropriate postage and addressing,
Gi) no later than 30 days after the date of the three days before the report was due.
regular general election. (9) (a) Any private party in interest may bring a
(b) Candidates for community council offices are civil action in district court to enforce the provisions
exempt from the requirements of this section, of this section or any ordinance adopted under this
(4) (a) The statement filed seven days before the section.
regular general election shall include: (b) Ina civil action filed under Subsection (9}(a),
(i) a list of each contribution of'more than $50 the court shall award costs and attorney's fees to the
received by the candidate, and the name of the prevailing party.
donor; (10) Notwithstanding any provision of Title 63G,
. (ii) an aggregate total of all contributions of $50 Chapter 2, Government Records Access and ;
or less received by the candidate; and Management Act, the county clerk shall:
(iii) a list of each expenditure for political (a) make each campaign finance statement filed
purposes made during the campaign period, and the by a candidate available for public inspection and
recipient of each expenditure. copying no later than one business day after the
(b) The statement filed 30 days after the regular statement is filed; and .
general election shall include: (b) make the campaign finance statement filed by
(i) a list of each contribution of more than $50 a candidate available for public inspection by:
received after the cutoff date for the statement filed (i) (A) posting an electronic copy or the contents
: seven days before the election, and the name of the of the statement on the county's website no later than
donor; seven business days after the statement is filed; and .
(ii) an aggregate total of all contributions of $50 (B) verifying that the address of the county's .
or less received by the candidate after the cutoff date website has been provided to the lieutenant governor
for the statement filed seven days before the in order to meet the requirements of Subsection ,
! election; and 204-11-103(5); or |
i (iii) a list of all expenditures for political purposes Gi) submitting a copy of the statement to the
made by the candidate after the cutoff date for the lieutenant govemor for posting on the website . :
statement filed seven days before the election, and established by the lieutenant governor under Section
the recipient. of each expenditure. 20A-11-103 no later than two business days after the
(5) Candidates for elective office in any county statement is filed.
Page 4 :
