SCHOOL BOARD CANDIDATE _ %
= FINANCIAL CAMPAIGN REPORT =
The financial campaign law for school board candidates is in the Utah Code reference: ao
20A-11-1301 through 20A-11-1305, The law is also printed on page four of this reporte te
YO County Cer
Full Name of Candidate’ Baw hows Leidturar we
Street Address _ 8 i _S. 4p e. — a
City VA elcu lle —_ __, Utah 84339 a
Phone: Home 7 2) - werJe) a Business __ :
Office _ Echedl Boardd_ a
Representative District __ L —_ . — :
~ “in the ; ¢ wr oe School District
: an : 7 . vo : TOTALS FROM + TOTALS FROM = CUMULATIVE, :
LAST REPORT THIS REPORT ~~ REPORT
‘|. Total contributions of donors whe gave more / oo - :
.. Uhan $50.00 (from form “A’’ on page 2) _§$ . Zz $.. Pp _$ Z .
2. Aggregate total of contributions of $50.00 or less $ Db $s Z $ D
3. Total campaign expenses ~ / : : : :
(from form.“B"" on page 3) . -$ $ Zz . $ Zz .
4. Balance at the end of this reporting period S$ | Z S$ _£. $ @ _.
Ido hereby certify that, to the best of my knowledge. all receipts and expenditures have been reported for the
period beginning —~ iw ne ZO, 20\2 _and ending ___ Dec. Bl : Zols _
and that there are no bills or obligations outstanding and unpaid except as set forth in this report.
Date —ahisht Signed Cif a— oe |
. |
oo 5-4 PG Sehvot : . . oO re
Carr Printing Company, Bountiful, Cah
Complete Election Supply Service Since 1902 Page 1

ITEMIZED CONTRIBUTION REPORT (Form “A”)
Date Name of Contributor _ i Mailing Address & Zip Code Amount
8 _ |
|
(If additional space is needed, use blank paper and list information like the above format and file with this report) -
Page 2.- _ a

(TEMIZED EXPENDITURE REPORT (Form “8”
Date of Person or Organization .
Expenditure’ To Whom Expenditure was made Purpose of Expenditure Amount
(If additional space is needed, use blank paper and list information like the above format and file with this report) ~ - :
Page 3

toe
24-11-1301, School hoard office candidate ~ Soot, UAL POUL Sha Hirai stananin, eepegion Cho born required bes
Campain finance requirements -- Candidate as a C6b(d bot adi iidasdaie contrbeteas Gr public struce Section GATT D802 showy i cote Baluce is alligh ons
poblical action comumitice officce. . assintance ol SSO or was. a single averegate freure mis be thestilems bet dissection .
OG si) bach school bore tties Carlene shat repented watt separate Cebiived tstigs, OFA Stacmerted dissent aid a fal secnnary
topos cael Coniganton and public seretee assiobits © (ip Decor nore contrbations tran the same sence report nai. be Med ata. tne
POCCIVOE Ub Gh OF Tete Sepa tc tures Hd EUG (hat have ai agerceate tulal ohantore iat SSO aay et he (4) anti sechool beard abticg Cabdutiite hall copbinie to
istitution that are deuicatad only to ial purpose. : reported su.the agyregate, but shall he reported separate! y JElothe year-end suintuary report requirc BY Section 20A-
Go A scheoel board eile candidate meas Col Tn preparing the report all receipts ane ex petaditures UI-P0% ant the statement ob Esselte ate! Heal
PAD eee U CORTE OE OF PODNG Servige asi stars shail he reponed as et December 3 Pot the presieus year MUTILAtS Foport roubined by des sechur are tod
froma polineal action committee registered under Sector (a) A check cr negotadie wistrument recenved by a
2OA-T1-A01, anc schoud Boarel of lice candidate 6 OF hetore Decewiper VE at 2A-LL-1M8. School buard office candidate — Failure
HA be designated by ve political acter Comite is at: the previous year skal beanehuded in the summary feport to file statement -- Penalties.
officer whe thas primary dectsionanaking autdictity sty OO The schoo! board aftice candidate shal contify an the iPad Waschoot hoard oifice candicblate dais to file ar
desertbed ut Secor: 2G.4- 1 O07 SHINY report that tothe pest at the school baad oflice Inform repert due betore the regular prusiary chestian, or
Ob} A school hoard offiee cai dale tay NOC use THGnEY cavietichale’s KUO folge. ail receipts sad all capenitures August 31 oc before dhe cogular general cleetion, the chic!
depestled dian acconmmetdesenbPad us Subsector (1 Guo) hase been repented ws of December stot the previous your clostien officer shall alter mak ara feasdgable alten pt te
tor and that there are ne bills or eblvations eulstunkag and eascover i the report was timely fried,
{1a personal vse exponditure: oF otpard excepts set forth ta dkat report.” . ~ infor We county clotk and other appropriate °
eu expenditue profirbrterd by haw vlection Gificuls whe
» 2) A school howd office candidate uty net depos or 204-191-0303, School board office candidate — CAT) shall practicable vremtose the mare ut the.
mite any Comtmoubons of pcblig service assistance Financial reporting requirements — Interim report. candidate fromthe ballots before the ballots are delivered
received inta a persenaler business aeceutit Chi Pach schoo! board otfice candidate shal! fie an To ster. oF

Oy Aschoel board office culdidate may retniake ans inert report athe following Omigs wn any year in which (UD shall) romesing the candikie's name tren die

political expenditures prubiibited hy baw the candidate has filed adeclaratien of wandidaey fora haulers got pracheable, wilera: the veters by ans

(40124 person who is no longer a school-board : peblic aftice: : Practicable method that the candidate has bevn chsqiaal: tied

cadidaty chooses notte expend the pioney reniaining a ta May (8. dor state school board office candidates. aad that votes cast tor camidhite will net be counted: anid
Gwipaizn deco, the persan shall continue to file the (hy seven dass before the regular primary election date (Hy nay not counlay votes for that candidate, arat
year-end sunauary report required! by Section 2GA-H1- 1302 fo) August 3h aid . Girmpose a fing dyzainst the fling entity te accerduice
until the statement of dissolution and final summary report Tdi seven days before the remular general clecber ate with Section 204-1 1. $005

required by-Seetinn 204- (bf Ware filed with: (2) Lach interna report shall iichude the lollowing (hi Any sehool-board office candidate whe tails to file

(ay the Leuteant vovermer un the case ofa stute school information tumely a financed statement required hy Sufkcetou 204.

hoard candidate: and fa) the net balance of the last summnuy repent, il any: TLD 30R C1 gd. 16), oF fel ty diaquaitied and the vacuney on

Hy dhe cently clerk un tho-cans of a local schoo! board ~ fbpa single eure eqiial to the total amounCor receipts the ballot may he filed as presided in Sechon QUA-1-56t

cadidate reported on all prior unterim: reports, any, duriae the CO Notwuhstandiig Subsections (bia ard (1ebi a

(Sujal Lceptas provided sn Subsection 5)¢b) and caer year in whined the interim report is due. school hoandotice candidate is not disqualiticd aed the

Section 20 A-} 1-402, a person whe is no fonger a school fo} a stigle fimure equal to the total ameutit of chief clestion officer may nad uupese a fine

heard cardadde day not expend or transfer the minney ia expenditures reported ca all prier wmiterin reports, Hany, _ (ithe candidate nnely fies the reparts required by this
cahipaign agcourt uta manner that Weuld cause the forrest filed during the calendar your in which the intectirt report is sector in accordance with SGoten QUANT E103; ;
awhou! board candidate to recognize the money as danadic due, (i) Uloee reports are completed, detiliiis accurately and,
invome under federal-tax laws - » thy a detaied listing of each contribution and pubhe ~ compléteiy the information required by this part excepttar

(by A person a he is ne tonger a school hoard canditate netic’ assistance focused since the Last sumtnary report inadlverlent ontiaatolis OF INS ieanl crTOrs oF
jay truister (ic money Una canipaigne account ina OEUiCeT hat hay net heeu reported in detail ott a prior interim: iraccuravies, and
thal would cause dig fomier school board candidate to repart CU those ointissnitis. OTOP OF Wc CL RACios der TE

-orgcogmize the money as tavable ineemie under federal eas. fe} for each nonmonetary contribution: Subsection (UCD) ate corrected in
Taw if the-(ranisteris made toa campaign accoust fare > ~orp the far marbet value of the contribation with dat oo (Aan amended reper: or
federal office iiformation provided hy the contebuter, wit (9 the next scheduled tepart

(0) (a) As used in this Subsection (6) and Section 204+ . (uaa specific description of the coutibuten: . —, Gd ia) Within 30 days after a deading forthe Hing of a
H-1302 received” means tha dotatieal listing of cach cxpenditure made since the athamary report by a candidate far site school board, the |

Catena cash contetbuGen, that thy cast is given toa last sunumary report that fas not heer reported in detail on deenunt goventor shall review cack filed summary repert
school board office candidate ona mentber of the va prior interim report, ftoensure that . : -
cabdidate’s personal GU Epa COMMEITIOS. (gi for cach nommonetary expenditure, thie far nairket (ii cach state school board candidate that ty required te

(a) fora contabuton that is a negouable instrigent or _ Salue of the expenditure, . bee . fle a sunuuary report has fied ote: ard
chock. that the negotuihle instrument or check is (bi anet balince for the year consisting of the net (ut cach summary report contains the bilermation
nevotiated. ard balance Trem the last summary report if any, plus ati requurcd by thts part
> Gan tor any ether type ef contnibetion. thatany portion recerpts singe the last sumnusy report neius all (>) Paitappears thatigiy state school bound candidate |
of the comtibuton's berelitimures to the school beard expenudilures since Ue fant suman report, hie filed to tiie the summary report required by law uit |
lice candidate . . . . qua summary page in tie form ceytired by the appears that adited summary repert does out confuras ter j

fot Bach schoo! board office candidate shall report te hieutenuit gover that identifies the law, or af the disutenant governor has received a wntlen |

| the cluef election efficer cach canitribution and publi Oi) begurainy bakuicg: . complaint alleging 6 sioatien of the law or the falsity of
serace assistance within W days after the centibution or (total contrbudons danny the penod since the fast any summary report, dhe feutenant soveror shall wethi: |
public service assistance is received, Statement: five days of discovery ofa violation or receiplol a wntter \
. . ee — a GH) total agntibudens to date: . Comiplaint, nod dhe state schual board candidate of the
20A4-11-1302. School board office candidate — Avi total expenditures dung the period since ute last Miokution on winter conphurCaned direct tle state schoal
Financial reporting requirements — Year-¢nd summary statement and hoard candidate ta fy a summary repent correcting the
report. - ss sot ave total expeorditures fo dates avid . proolem -

Chita) Bach school board office candidate shall Ble a Hothe taane of a politica) action commiittey loc which HOV CDs uphinetil for any state sted buared cagieliebtte
sunmiary report by Jamiary: 1 of the your after the regular, the school heard office candidate is designated as ai . to failto Te er amignd a summary repert within 14 days
getietal civetion 5 car tficet whos lias piidiary docu se tithe aonidy aides wdlon PCebe UT: haligg Those Wie tedteriadit Lowerlicn wide

Gy dir aideldieas Ge the rogquuaiicniis Gf Subscobion CF ae Sechou T0466 Vis acchion,

a toner school board allice candidate thachas not fied the “Frat Por ail individual contentions of public service 7Un Back state setiodi board candidate who violates
statement at dissolutiod aad final sumiury report recuircd assiatinice OF SSO oF fess. a singe asmrewate Pegure nity he Subsection (20QC0 is guilty ota chiss B nusdemteanor
under Section 204-4 1-1 404 shall continue te tle a reported. without separate detailed fistings (no The heetenant gavenier shall report.all vighations
stiimary reperton Jangary [of cach year Oh) Owe er inere contributions trom the sane source of SubsecGon (20) te dhe attamey rene

(2h Gar back summary report shal uctide the following that have an agereyate tolal ef nuore that $50 nay net be (3) fay Wahine Sl days after a deadline forthe fling ela
WOMAN as Gf Decaber Fb ai the previgiis year” reper ihe aggregate balshall be reported beparaiely OC Cstdamae) ropert dhe County Clerk shall rovicay cach tiled

Hythe net balance of the bist Heaicied staement i ary: (4) 6.0 fo preparing gach iuleranrepert. ail receipts via SUITES report to enstce that

(iiss single figure equal te the total wounled receipts expenditures shad be reperted as ol five days betory the » Gr ewch logabschoel board candidate hat is required to.
reported ou all interns roperts, Wl iais daring the previous required Thng date ofthe report Nica stmmary repent has Gis ote. anal
years | fh) Ar. negotiade insurmentor cheek recemed by a G0 cavh suuntary tepert contanns (he aiterinalien

dd a single figure Gquad te the Gite! ameuibed 77 svhews heard cffice Candidate mrore thar: five days betore route by this part. . . i
expenditures reported ou ali interioa reports, if viy. led the required Cin abate of a ropert reared by his section Ob Dot appesus thats logat schoo! beard candidate
during Ghepres iets year, shall he deluded in the infesim report has tailed.to filuthe summary report required by aw. if it

Cd ardetaded distu at each receipt conte baton and appears thata filed sanuuary cepart dees et couforn: te
publiy service assistance sitce the Last summary report dial 24-11-1304. Schoal board office candidate -- the law. orif the counts clerk fas received aw rity:
has pot sect: Teprfted in detarl en an interins repert : Financial reporting requirements - Termination of complaint ategunes a crlatier of the Liaw or the fbi of

Oy tor cach nommonctary Contest Gor duty to report. any summary report, the courtly cierk shall within five

CA} the far nuket value of the comtnbation widk that OL) bach school board candidate posubpect fe intenat sly of discovery Gh a Vidialion af rece:plot a written,
adoration provided by the contrthotor, itd reporting requirernents und! the catd dite sib das on ss compliant necdy the focal selioo! board candidate of the

AB ha spocitio desenptier of the comtribntian ghrmated rea primus Wiolabor or sition complaint ame dered thet local schon

Ovadetuied hstide ef cack expendibare mate since the (2r Tach school Beard office cunditate is subject tu board candidate Coe a suiians reper correcting the
last sitidty report that has net bec nporteed ip deel en Year-end SUndTliny Coporling reauirenionts and! tie problem
ai eter report, vandidate has tled-a statement ot desselution with div rere Tors aiawhil lor aby local school bean!

Ao tor cach mommanctars eypenditure, the fur nearkel Heulsmait gowomur stating: thal Vdhcceite te Gail to file or aiend a surinsaey report witha
value of the expenditure: Ga the shoel beard oflice Canduiate as ste longer Ta dans atten peesovinag notice From dhe conndy clerk under
Woah anet balances for the vear consisting ef the net recebing contibutions and is ne lunges makag. this Seen: ~
balance from the list sincnary report diay. plas all expenditnres, Cid bach jocal schea! beware caiidiviate Whe: era dates
receepts minus ail ea pendittess, aid : (bythe ending balorce on dic bet sunariary eopont fied Subsection (UC is eit Of a clans Hon sGemeuicd
On ho mane ofa political actor gemuintigg for which is vere uid (he balaice in the sopanis bank acconnt Jay Phe conuits clock shall cepertall stalabons of
the schol board cities candsdate ts designated ian * secrared in Seehion IQA TE P30b is vero, art _ . Subsection Oy ote he distcict or couety altomes
offoce Whe das priinary decisorentaking anthocity Gneer .
Page 4
