cos FINANCIAL CAMPAIGN REPORT, "CHE coutTv cur
eS The financial campaign law is in te Cache County Code 2.21 ee
. ...... The law is also printed on page four of this report. ©. -- - ,
~~ pull Namie of Candidate ames Maer epee Sev“
co Street Address 7 AO. AB ON BG 430) BY. ee el a
City ABovingvee ah 8 EZ , .
| Phone: Home 425 2Z2-Gl Pm, Business LBS -~Z/B-S eee
oe “Natie oF Office Peng ao. S BrTo2 woes ne ees Some
|. Political Party. -LEALABLI CD PANL
. ; a 2 t -
: Fa CAéndidate ;
OSI SSS "TOTALS FROM TOTALSFOR = SSS CUMULATIVE
ee ceemie cents oe macnn need ee --.. -LASTREPORT .t . THISREPORT.. ==... REPORT.
more.than. $50.00 2.0 2... oo te ee fe oe re tg ep fe ce kg
(from form “A” on page 2 of this report) ........3 “Wilh $ VAL Bhs. 7 $ LA, 368.74
2. Aggregate total of contributions Oo ae oO - .
_ OF$S0.00 Or Hess TI TS ee 14 a ga As. ay See $ 2S
(from.form “BY on page 3 of this.report). oo... 2.8 NIA —— . § { 368.74 3 14,268 , 77
4, Balance at the end.of this reporting period .. 2... ———-—-__—  ... § § ‘.
Carr Printing Company, Bountiful, Utah : .
Complete Election Supply Service Since 1902 Page 4

‘ ‘ ITEMIZED CONTRIBUTION REPORT (form “4”
Date Name of Contributor Mailing Address & Zip Code Amount
“AT SYZ2/
ane a .
D232) Ace Faane2.2 San’ L682 Lt, B00 HW. LOB, fb 2,00 -
}
Oadha  TBPBDA a
VIL HA PonsyteS» Lip Fer . 2972. S. Se0 ¢ Keen, oT fs Ce —
y)
Vege Dewrsr CLO se- 2.2. BY POD ated >) |
ClLaelS7 ar), et7 EY QE $/20 — |
oo
Lill/ Le SEay MS thotee 22 b, 2O0 ~ , ACBALI, to F- eZ) —_ |
UWLNB//4 _ Cheung Go/e LO, BOX Y3 2h lapnw, UT 8432) feswe— —|--
10/02 [pap Mi: RI RENT EES MEDAL Zoo 2. Lean up $¢ 620 — !
AESOLLETO OCT E34) |
LeLAhide TA Ml se end SO%E. ZS wv, Mazi: f Bre fe PS 02 _ |
AT: &4Y32/3
L0LOLY LEACH E Lette Ely Bitte P tat S 42.0 £. 2E0 Vv, Lowey wT” ¢2 so |
. PSESOCIIF I?) Pr-O LYS S2/ i
lelellid feeeprt Cee Cee ine Bow, ser
LelAlil, Pe WO tet, tect pa "CVV PESEE, t1F G3BD Joao- |
2M oo, BVP. MAR Sui E Soe
LL2ZMY Tarte wise L.A LBO%¢ ZB? BYe0 ~ |
PROVPETCE, te 7 F433 2.
nae ne ek ee
l0L272L4 Kear & THUES Stewie Po Box FF, KMpvirgevee., hed 293.7
Al B72 32 :
a ee ee .
ee Se
Satire ee
a
ee ne
oe ee Te
a I
oe eee a
a eee eee
wo ee OO
ee eee
(if additional space is needed use blank Paper and list information like the above format and te with this report)
Page 2 a

' ITEMIZED EXPENDITURE REPORT (Form ‘B’) ; |
" Date of Person or Organization .
Expenditure To Whom Expenditure was made Purpose of Expenditure Amount
i
Phy lip  ChCWE Cem Tiga Chee le Ltr ree Go7 -
Lethe Stas Cerne Hite kere (ernment — |
Vaile ACE Baviee-b Ste COMOBL GAD £2G0NE Lio —
Ynys see Bavvee # Slew Ctl OB bv! CS VE 2 $00 —~
lelpd Ftte Bootie. Obveelisiwe se BO [
LOM ES fl t/ LAL E Lh Reto MEO pp LSA DZLMAE LO —
(eletly. Facemeoie 9 Aes BD
oO eee eee i
i
i
eee eee |
|
—_— eee nnn
nee ee
OT a
a ee ns
eee So
Sasa Sanne i
ee Sanna
eee eee
ee Sane
er OT
eee a
Sa SET nee | 7a uNSNE Eee
(i additional space is needed. use blank Paper and list information like the above format and tile with this report)
Page 3

2.21.040: County office candidate and officeholder—Financial reporting requirements-Post general election .
summary report: :
A. Each county office candidate or office holder shall file a summary report within 30 days after the general election.
B. 1. Each summary report shall include the following information:
a. The net balance of the last summary report, if any;
b. A single figure equal to the total amount of receipts reported on all interim reports, if any;
c. A single figure equal to the total amount of expenditures reported on all interim reports, if any, filed
during the election year;
d. A detailed listing of each contribution received since the last summary report that has not been reported
| in detail on an interim report;
e. For each nonmonetary contribution, the fair market value of the contribution;
_f. A detailed listing of each expenditure made since the last summary report that has not been reported in
detail on an interim report;
g. For each nonmonetary expenditure, the fair market value of the expenditure; and
h, A net balance for the year consisting of the net balance from the last summary report, if any, plus all
receipts minus all expenditures. , ;
; 2. For all single contributions of fifty dollars or less, a single aggregate figure may be reported without separate
detailed listings..
a. Two or more contributions from the same source that have an aggregate total of more than fifty dollars
may not be reported in the aggregate, but shall be reported separately.
3. In preparing the report, all receipts and expenditures shall be reported as of December 31% of the previous year.
c. 1, As used in this Subsection C, “account” means an account in a financial institution:
a. That is not described in the above Subsection B; and
b. Into which or from which a person who, as a candidate for an office, other than a county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, or as a holder of an office, other than a county office for
- which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, deposits a contribution or makes an expenditure.
2. Each county office candidate or officeholder with an account shal! include on the summary report a contribution
. deposited in or an expenditure made from an account
a. Since the last financial report filed; or : .
b. That has not been reported under a statute or ordinance that governs the account.
D. The summary report shall contain a paragraph signed by an authorized member of the county office candidate’s or
. officeholder’s personal campaign committee or by the county office candidate or officeholder certifying that, to the best of |
the signer’s knowledge, all receipts and all expenditures have been reported as of December 31" of previous year and that
there are no bills or obligations outstanding and unpaid except as set forth in that report. ; ,
2.21.050: County office candidate and officeholder—Financial reporting requirements—Interim report:
A. Each county office candidate or officeholder shall file an interim report before five p.m. for the period ending eight days
before the regular general election, the reportshall be due seven days before the regular general election date. .
B. The interim report shall include the following information: ;
1. a list of each contribution of more than $50 received by the candidate, and the name of the donor; :
2. an aggregate total of all contributions of $50 or less received by the candidate; and
: 3. a list of each expenditure for political purposes made during the campaign period, and the recipient of each
expenditure,
c. 1, For all individual contributions of fifty dollars or less, a single aggregate figure may be reported without
separate detailed listings.
2. Two or more contributions from the same source that have an aggregate total of more than fifty dollars may not
be reported in the aggregate, but shall be reported separately. o
D. 1. As used in this Subsection D, “account” means an account in a financial institution:
a. That is not described in the above Subsection B; and :
b. Into which or from which a person who, as a candidate for an office, other than a county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, or as a holder of an office, other than a county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, deposits a contribution or makes an expenditure.
2. Each county office candidate or officeholder with an account shall include on the interim report a contribution
deposited in or an expenditure made from an account that has not been reported under a statute or ordinance that, governs
the account. :
