| SCHOOL: BOARD CANDIDATE : as ue
FINANCIAL CAMPAIGN REPORT oe
The financial campaign law for school board candidates is in the Utah Code reference She a
foxes pa
| 204-117-1301 through 20A-11-1305. ‘Phe law is also printed on page four of this report. as Fel
aa tt
i-. | ; . . hs my
| ‘ull Name of Candi L toe ZS °
| Full Name of Candidate _ Lisa awe a — a
_ .
| Street Address | Y 2% c 1400 N
q . 3
| city__ | 26 ov _ _ _,Utah 84 BY | .
: Phone: Home UAS 7 $ 7 - HOI _ Business .
| Office _
| ; Representative District a)
| in the Loq OWN ; School District
TOTALS FROM + TOTALS FROM = CUMULATIVE
LAST REPORT THIS REPORT ~~ REPORT
1. Total contributions of donors who gave more p
than $50.00 (from form “A” on page 2) $ { ) $ O $ ce ) . .
2. Aggregate total of contributions of $50.00 or less § 0 $ O ; $ O
3. Total campaign expenses : ;
(from form “B”’ on page 3) $ 50.00 $ O $ So0.00
4. Balance at the end of this reporting period g¢__ ~ 500d $ oO $7 30 -00
, I do hereby certify that, to the best of my knowledge, all receipts and expenditures have been reported for the
period beginning As 3\ | Zoi and ending ( yet 2% i 2014 _
and that there are no bills or obligations outstanding and unpaid except as set forth in this report.
8-4 PG School
Carr Printing Company, Bountiful, Utah
Compleic Election Supply Seryice Since 1902 Page I

ITEMIZED CONTRIBUTION REPORT (Form “A”)
iy
Date Name of Contributor Mailing Address & Zip Code Amount

| ee a
. oe
ee
1 a i
a
|

|

| ee eee

(lf additional space is needed, use blank paper and list information like the above format and file with this report)
. Page 2

. ITEMIZED EXPENDITURE REPORT (For: ‘B”)
Ly . .
Date of Person or Organization
Expenditure To Whom Expenditure was made Purpose of Expenditure Amount
| a Se Sonne
i
San
eee
eee TO — .
a eee .
eee .
eee
ee eee
ee eee
eee
oo
_ ee -
a eee .
(if additional space is needed, use blank paper and jist information like the above format and file with this report}
Page 3

L
; MARMEVSOL, School hoard office candidate — Seclou 28-1 )-00), ieha fica suas repeat in die Caine resaulred toy
Wampaign finance requurcinents -- Candidate as a (b>) For all individual caiuibuticas or pahite service Sectun 208-11 -1 302 shaseuie a vere: nalarter fs attached (
* political acdion comuritec officer. assistance af $50 or less, a single aggregale fuure may ie the stalemient oF dissesution
1 OF £0) fay 05 Pick schoo! gourd of hou camlicate shit feportid without separate detacier isting, (3) A statanent of Gisstlutian and v fina’ susumary
t arposit cack conitbition armed pubile service assistance (2) Ewe or more contribntions dromt the aunce source ropurtiay be filed at ary tne
tecuived Ut one on rors separate accounts i a fainc tay Uint have an agescsale total of more then $oih aay net te OP Bach scheot board office candidate shall coutinee te
destitution thatart dedicated Grby to Chat purpose reported in the davrugate, bul shall be reported separately, flo Ge yoar-ond siumuary report reauired by Section 204-
Cay A schoo! board office candidate wine EQ) in preparing the report ail recelpts ane expendinurss V4-7302 qiatil Gio statement Of Cissedtiticnt and Stal
(A) receive acontrbocar Gr pubilc sorvdes aysisins'e shed? be reported as of December 21 of le: previews year, Stiunatry report required by this secUan are Sed.
Tron: a politica: action committee registered wider Section fa) A check or negotiable instrument received by a
2GA-11-6G1, and school board office candicule on or before December 31 ef QWA-LT-1305. School board office candidate — Failure
- (B) be designated by a political actor cauunittee as an the previeus year shal! be included it: the summary report to file statement -- Penaities. :
olfiver who has primary decision-making authority as Gi Che schoo! board office candidate shali certify in the (lidar lf a school board otiice candidate Guts ve file an
descrined in Section 2JUA-11-607 summary report that, ta die best O! the schoo! board oftice interui: reper dug betore the reguiar primary electian, on
fis) A schoo! board office candidate may nat use mousey candidate's knowiedge, all recvipts and all expenditures August 3, or before the regular general lecuan, the bie?
deposited ip anacceunt described ui Subsector Oat have beer reporied as of Decensber 31 of the prewious year ection officer shall, after making a reasonable aaempt to
: for. and that thers are ne bilis or Gbligatons oulstanding ane discover the report was Gmely filed.
(1) a personal ise expenditure: or unpaid except as set forth in dhat report, Ciiinfor the county clerk and other appropriate |
Qi} ay expeviliture prohibited by law. eliction officials who
(2) A school board office candndite may not deposit or 2GA-11-1303, School board office candidate — CA) (D shall, 1 practicable, remove the name of the |
nungle any contributions ar public service assistance Financial reporting requirements — Enterim reports vandidate from the baliot. before the ballow are delivered |
received into a persona! or business acount C1) back schoo! bourd office candiaaie shat! fie ar te voters, or |
G?A school boand office candidate miay not wake any infer: report atthe dotlowing Unies fe any year in which (1) shall if remeving dhe candidate's nara frean the
political espenditures profabited by law the candidate hits filed u dectaration of candidacy for a halletis not practicable, inform the voters by any
(4) Ha person who is ic tonger a schoo! board public office practicable method thai the candidate has been disqualified |
candidate chooses nol tu expend the money remaining iia {a} May IS, tor state schoo! bourd office caididates: aid that votes cast for candidate will not he counted: and,
campaign account, the perso shal! continue lo file the (io) sever days before the regular primary election. date, (Bi) may not count any votes for that candidate, and |
year-end summary report required by Section 20.8- 11-1302 fc) August SI: and : Qi} impose a fine against the filing entity in accordance
unui the statement ef dissolution and fluc! summary report fd) seven days before the regular general election date with Section 24-11-1005 ;
reyguired by Section 2648-11-14 are fied with: (23 Fach mtemm report shall include (he fotiowing (3) Any setiool board office caniiduis whe farts te file
(aj the heutenant governor in the case efa state schol information: timely a finaticial staderment required by Subsection 20A-
bourd candidate, and fai the net butane of the List sununary report, if any, VL-L30321 0D), (od. oF (d) is disqualified and the Vacaucy au
éhy the counry clerk, in the case of a loca! schow! boaril (by a single figure equal to the total amount of receipts the ballot may be filled as provided in Section 20A-1-SU1
candidate reported on al! prier interim: reports, 1 ay, during the ic) Notwithstanding Subsections (ila) and. (1}(b}, a
(Si (a) Lacept as provided m Subsection (Sy by and calendar year in which the interim report is due. school board office candidate is not disqualified and the
Section 2GA-11-402, a person whe is no longer a scheol . (c) a single figure equal to the total amount of chief election officer may nat impose a fue if:
duard candidate may not expend or transfer the money ina expenditures reported onal poor interim: reports. i? any, (1) the candidate umedy files the reports required by this
campaign account in a manner that would cuuse the former filed during the calendar year which the iilerin: report ts sectine in accordance with Sector 264-1 1-103; :
school board candidate to recognize the money as taxable duc: Ea (n) those reports are completed, detailing accurately and
income under federal tix law (d3 a detailed liste of each contribution and public completely the uiformation required by this part except ior
fb) A person who is mo longer a schoo! bourd candidate service assistance received since the last summary report uadvertent annissiens or insignificant errors er
tay trangier the mioney in a CaNIpEgn account ma mianer that has not been reported in detail! on a pmor interin: Inaccuractes: and
that would cause the former schoel-board candidate te report, (hai those omissiGns, errars, Gr imaccuraues described int
recognize the money as taxable income under federal tax (¢} for cach normonetary contribution Subsection (Pyéciits are corrected in
law i? the transter is made to a campaign account for 4) the fair market value of the contribution with that {Aj an amignced report: or
federal office. information provided by the contributor, and £B) the next scheduled report
: (6}(a) As used un this Subsection (6) and Seetion 20A- (ii) a specific description of the contribution: (2) (aj Within 30 days after a deadline for the filng of a
: J} -0303) Syeegeived® meuns (fa detiled Hsting of each expenditure made sine the summary report by a candidate for state schoul board. thy
: G)} for a cash contribution, that ue Cash is given toa Jast surninary report hat has not been reported in detail or iicutenant governor shall review each filed summary report
; school board office candidate or a meniber of the a prior interim report; to ensure that:
7 candidate's personal canipargn committee: égy for each nommonetary expenditure, the Jair market (each state school board candidate that is required te
: (ii for a contnbution that is a negotiable instrument or value of the expenditure; fil a sumauary report has filed one: and
check, that the nevotiable instrument or check ts . {hy a net balance for the year cousistiug of the net i) each supumary report contains the itdormation
: negotuted, and balance from the last summary report, if any, plus all required by this part
: (ii) for any other type of contribution, that any portion receipts since the last sumunary report aumus all (b} If it appears that any state schan! boafd candidate
: of the centribution‘’s benefit inures to the school board expenditures since the last sunuuary report, Las failed to file the stummary report required by law, if it
office candidate. (i) a summary page in the fortn reguired by the appears thata filed sumuuary report dees not conform te
: (bi Each school board affige candidate shall report ty Hentenunt governor that identifies the law, or ifthe lewtenant govemor has received a eritien
the chief election officer each contribution and public (i) beginning balance; complaint alleging a violation of the law or the falsity of
| service assistance within 30 days atter the contribution or (ti) total contributions dung the period since the iast any summary report, the lieutenant governor shall, within
‘ public service assistance is received . statement: five days of discovery of a violation or receipt of a written
(ii total contributtans to date; compiauit, notify the state schoo! bourd candidate of the
204-411-1302. School board office candidate — (iv) total expenditures during the period since the last violation or written, compiaint and direet the state schoo!
Financial reporting requirements — Year-end summary statument: and board candidate to file a sumunary report correcting the
| report. (¥) total expenditures to date: and problem.
(1) (a) ach schoo! hoard office candidate skiall file a G) the name ofa potitical action comuiitice for whist fo} @) diis unlawful for any state school board cundicate
suntmuy report by January [0 of the your afler the regular the school board uffice candidate is designated as an to Jail te file or amend a summary report within 14 days
general election year. officer who bas onmary decision-making authority wider afier receiving notice from the tieulenaié governor under
(bd) fn addition to die requirements of Subsection (11a), Seeuon 2UA-11-60i this scetion., 7
a former schoo} board office candidaté that has not fileé the (3) (a) For ali individual contribunons or public service dil} Rach state sehoot board candidate whe vioiates
staigrment of dissviution ang final suminary report required assistance of SSO or iess, a singie agvregate figure may be Subsection (2M e}i) is guilty ofa class Bomisdemieanor
under Section 2GA-11-1304 shall continue ta file a reported without separate detailed listings. Gif The heutcnant governor shall repurt ali violations
sliimary repert on January £0 of cach year, fb) Two or more contributions from the same source “of Subsection (2 Wei) te tie atiomey general
(2) (a Rach sumanary report shall include the Tullow ng that have an agaregate total of miore than $50 may not be (3) (a) Within 30 days after e deadline for the fine of a
information as of December 3b ct tie previous year: reported in the aggregate, but shail be reported separaicty sutulnary report, the county clerk shall review each filed
Gf} the net baiwice of the last Snancta! statement fans: i43 (a) Ik preparing each interim report, all receipts and summary report to ensure that:
(i) a singly Agure equal te the total amount af reseipis expenditures shall he reported as of five days before the (i cach tocal schoo! board cuudidate that is required to
reported on all internet repurts, Paty, during the previous required fifing date of the report, fle a suman: report tas fled one. and
year (bh) Any negotiable pistrument or cheek received by is Gi} cach summary repori contains the in lormiation
Gi a single figure equal to tie total amount oF schoo! board office candidate mors than five days kefore reguired by this part
expenditures reported on ali intenm reports, if any, Aled the regiaree filing date of a report required by this section (bt LD iappears that any local schoo! board candidate
during the previous year: shall be iicluGed fn the Interin: repert has faled te file the summary report required by law. {fit
(vd a detailed fisting of cach receipt, contribution, and appears that a Tied sumuniary report dees nut conform ts
public servies assisiice since Gig last Summary report Ural 204-111-1304. School board office candidate — the law. ori? the county cierk has receved a writen
has not been reported i Getai! Gn an iterim report, Financial reporting requirements -- Termination of compuuntiadleging a viciation of the law or the falsity of
QO jor each netioanetary conuiudon: duty ta report. any Suminary report, the couity clerk shall, within five
fA} the dais market value ofthe contribution with that (1) Buck sekoei board ciudidute is subject te interin Gays of chscovery ofa vigkuder Gr receipt of a written
lnionmation provided ov the contmbutory ang reporting requirenienis uot the candidate withdraws er is vomplalnt notify the local schoo! board candidate of the
PRY a speotie deseripuon of the contribution: Climunated ius poimary. violation or written complaint and ditvet the local school
(vty a detatjed listing of each expenditure tile singe the 02) Eneb schow! board office candidate is sublect te board Gaelalite fo fle @ Sumuiiry reper Correcting: the
Yaot summary report that fais not been reported: in deta cn year-ond stuminary reporting requirements unui the propiens
au intenuereper, candichute has ed a siatementa? dissatuuor with the iop€@} bts triawhs ter apy iceal schoo! board
oviri for cach meoumoriciary evpenditure, the alr midrket Hevlenant goverior slaling diat watictdats te fad to We on anor a suumary report withis .
value of the expenditure fa the seiioo! board office candidate is ne longer [4 days afler reveiving notice fram the county clerk uncer
cyl a uet balance for dic year consisting of the net receiving cuntnbutions and is ne jenger making tyis section, ,
nalance from die last summary reper, if any, pius al! capenditures; fil Pach loca. sehias board candidate whe vighstes
receipls finus all expenditures, and (Ch) the ending balance on the ast sumabary report fled Nepseclon (SCH is eutlty ofa class Banisiemeatior.
List the name ofa politcal action committee for whick is vereand the baumce in the separate bank account | (25) The county clerk shall report ad! vielatons of
the schoo: board office candiGate is desiguated as an reguired in Section, 204-171-1301 is vera: and Subseenon (Sel te the distret or connby allemey
officer who hus prinuary decision-making authonty under
| Page 4
