“AT pARADN SC nas CACHE GIUNTY CLEES
SCHOOL BOARD CANDIDATE “ .
oes. 3. FINANCIAL CAMPAIGN REPORT. | oo
The financial campaign law tor school board candidates is in the Utah Code refereiged 22 OCT 208 BRED. ©
Se 20A-11-1301 through 20A- 11-1305. The law is also printed on page four of this report.
TOn County Clerk
GF '
"Full Name‘of Candidate __ >) ONA TH AN : BE. SENKING a —
Street Address /0 i N-. M Al NM __-— a ee
City COGAN _ , Utah 84.22 / oe
cs ~ - } ~ ~
. Phone: Home 135 f FO ‘ 62 fe Business 48S > FS3 1600 7 oo
| . Representative District... a . cs _ .
. no . ; . - TOTALS FROM TOTALS FROM: > CUMULATIVE
| a . LAST REPORT + THIS REPORT REPORT
» botal contributions of donors who pave more ‘s > c
| 7 than.$50.00 (from form “A” on page.2) $ O $.. C _ $_. O ae
| 2, Aggregate total of contributions of $50.00 or less $ © $. © s O
| ; 3. Total campaign expenses > - ry - TO. ye 7 uy
| . (from form.sB"! on page 3) 0. .$ _ C $ I; & co. (/ $. ; & é ° 7 _
: ; 4. Balance at the end of this reporting period $ C _$ /& fo. (f $ i g £9. /
| Ido hereby certify that, to the best of my knowledge, all receipts and expenditures have been reported for the. :
i . period beginning | Ade 3h 20 / { _undending CCT @g tO (Y _.
: ~ and ‘that there are no bills or obligations outstanding and unpaid except as set forth in this report.
| Date. OCT . 2 f ‘/ _ Signed _ Ee peo. —
, 8-4 PG School
Care Printing Company, Bountiful, Utah ;
Complete Election Supply Service Since 1902 Pape 1

|

b |

ITEMIZED CONTRIBUTION REPORT (Form “A”) ,
Date Name of Contributor =. - ss Mailing Address & Zip Code Amount
a
| i
(if additional space is needed, use blank paper and list information like the above format and file with this report) -
Page 2. Se a

, . . ITEMIZED EXPENDITURE REPORT (Form “B") Sone .
Date of ’ Person or Organization “
Expenditure’ : To Whom Expenditure was made Purpose of Expenditure Amount
lofelel. Spb Conese Pine / postoge 789.35
bfefy Votes Phot lle OR Ie
"(ifadditénal space is needed, use blank paper anid list information liké the above formal and hile with this report)
, Page 3

¥
ZMA-LL-1301. School hoard office candidate — Seotiong 204.1 E601 Hod tinal sinimacs report thy funn eequrreat bey
Camnpaion finance requirements -- Candidate as a (hoe For adi tidisicuat conmuibotons ge public serace | Seetien (GATT L303 shower a core balance is attached be
poliGeal action commitice officer. . 7 "assistance of SSO uF leas. single aggregate Heiiremias he thestatomictit of disseittion .
(1G) Go bach school boarrt erties cancticiate shail fopertod without separate detaited lstins. (334 stakaient of dissolution ane a final staenary
deposit cach comtrbation and publi service aasistare C17 bwo ormote contobitions fons the same seurce © ccpertinuis be filed at cae ime nets
Fecenwed HL One of ure Sepaundle WGC UNES Ud PUI that have an agerceate total of more than SSG may net be . (4) Back school budard attics candidate shall conte te
vaistitution that ase dedieated only to Uiat purposes. reported ihe agyregate, but shall he reported separately. JHtethe yeag-cnd-sunimary report required bY Section 204-
i A schoo! beanl fies cand fdlate may. (ol tb preparioy the repert. all receipts and expenditures HI-1AG? until the stateriont ot disseiution and final
PAbreceve a cestibuton ar public service assistance shail be reported as oF December Ub atthe previaus var obmry report required by this sector are tiled
from a political action committee registered under Secoon (d) A check ar negotiabic mstrument secerved hy a : :
DOA L-GU), and achou! board office candidate on of before December 31 ob 204-111-1305. School buard office candidate — Failure
MBy be designated by a political actor Commitee ibs itt the previous year shall be eluded in Wie sarnmiary report, to file statement -- Penalties.
officer who has primary decteremaking auierty as (3) Phe school board eftice candidate shall certify a the 1) Gt Wa school Board office caratictate fails to file an
described ia Section 204-1 b-G0] suimiiary report that to Ue best of the school board office inleain repertitug betore the regular primary election, oft
(h) A school board office candidate may neluse dunes ciedidate’s Knowledge, all receipts and all capendatures August 3 foc before the cegular voneral election, ie chic!
depostted wear aceotit deseribed in Subsection (I yGued have been reported as of December tbat the previous yeu civction officer shall, after making a reasonably attenipt te
for and that there are ne bitls or ohlivations vutstandiuig and discover U the report was timely filed
1a personal tise expenditures oF ubpatd excepts set furth in that repent,” . . ° 4) infor the county eleatk and other appropriate .
(an expenditure probibited by law diection afficuis who.
- 2) Aschoel hoard office candidate may net depositor 204-11-1303. School beard office candidate — (Ad Ut shall practicable remiowe the name ol the.
nungle any cominbubons or public survice assistance Financial reporting requirements — Interim reparts. candidate front the hatots before dhe baltots are delivered
received into a perscnal of btsttiess account, (1) Bach school board office candubite shal! file an to soturs, oF
OF A school board office candidate may not make ars interiin report atthe following tunes an any’ year in which” C19) shall, uf removing the candickite's name tram die
pobtical expenditures protitbited by law the candidate has filed a declaratien of candidacy fora . hallot is not practicable. antorn: the voters by any
- (40-17 a person who is uc longer a schoolboard : - public oftice: : oa - - prackeabte method that the candidate has boendisqualifigd
caulidate chooses notla exper Whe money rendinig wl ta) May 1S. for state school board office candidates and that votes cast for candidate wall not be counted; aud
Saipan acceuit, the person shall cantume to file the dh) seven days betore the regular prinsary clectiun cate. 1B) uty not count any votes ter that candidate: and
year-end summary report required by Section 2UA-EP-1302 (c) Abgust 31, and 77 _ © 7 Gipimpese’a fine against the fling entity ihaccordince
tunel the statement of dissuludon and final summary report idyseven days hetore the regular general election date. with Section 204-1 1-100
required by-Seetion 204-1 1-1 304Lare filed with: 42) Fach interim report shall include the lollawing : ve (hb) Any schoolboard-office candidate whe fails ta file
(a) the licutenint gowemor in the case e Fa stite schoul information. tuncly a iiancal statement required by Subsection 204-
board candidate, and Ca} the net balance of Ue Last supumary repent, any: TE-ISG301 ¢6). (c), of dd bs disquatificd and the vacancy on
Hh} the county clerk, athe case of a local schoolbeand (hy a single furs equal to the (otal armounCol receipts the ballot may he fed as provided tn Secton 204- E501
cuididaty. reported on all prior interim reports, if any, during the (oy Nobstthstanding Subsections (Ga and (11cb} a
(5) (a) Except as provided in Subsection 45 bd and - cweniie year tn which the intern report is due, eachaal board-oties candidate is nat disqualified and the
Sestian 204-1 1-402. person whe ts ne longer a schue! (eo) astagle ture equal to the totd amount of chief clection officer may nolumpese a fine af.
hoard candidate may not expend of transfer the mmney ina expenditures reported cin all prior mterin: reports, any, _ UD the candatate timely files the reports reqiyred by this
cumpaign account ina manner that would Gause the formes fled during the calendar year in which the intertat report is sector in accordance with Section 204-b 11032"
svhooi board canuhdate to recognize the money as taxdie due, 1) those reports are completed, detning accurately and
income under -federabtax laws. - - : td) a detailed: hhsting ef each contribution aid public completely the information required by this part except for
tb) A person who ts ne tonger a school board candidate sen ice issistince received sive the last summary report inadvertent onttsstotys or insignificant errersor
may transfer the money in a campaign account ina manner that has not been reported in detail on a por interim inaccuracies, and .
thal would catse the fonner schoo! bourd candidate to repurt: . (in) those urnisstuns, errors, OF untectafacics described tt
+ recognize the money as taxable income under federal tay (e} for cach nonmonetary contribution: Subsectren CUCOUH) are corrected in
law if the-transfer isamady to a campaign account for: ~(iy) the Fair market value ef the contribution with that ~~ -- (Abas amended report. or > :
federal office. , Infoenttion provided by the contributor: and (5) tie next scheduled Feport
(0) (a) As used it this Subsection (6) and Section 20.4. , _ 4) wopecitic description of the contribution: _ 2. (2) a) Within 30 days after a deadline for the fing of a
11-1303, "received means: (Pf) adctatled fisting of cach expenditure made since the SUIITLADY report by a candidate for stite scheal board, the
() fora cash contribution, that the cash ts given toa Jat suriumary report that has not heen reperted in detail on jeutenamt govemor shall review cuch Med simumary report
school board office candidate ora meniber af the . a prior interim report, tu ensture that: ~ os . te
catdidate’s personal campaign conumittes, (a) fer cach nonmenctiry expenditure, the har market (1) each state school board candidate that iy required te
(0 fora contibution that isa negotiable amstaunentoer | value of the expenditure, _ cae le a stitmuary report has fled one, anal
cheek, that the negotuthle instrument or check ts (hia net balance for the year consisting oF the net (iu gach summary ceport contains the ivedmatiosn
negotiated, and balance trom the Jast sammnary report, if any, plus all required by thts part.
> (nt) for any other type of contribulion, thatany portion - receipts since the last summiary report mimus all ” (by fitappears that any state school board candidate
ofthe contibution’s benetit inures to thy school boarit expenuitures since the last sumuimany report: has fated to tite the summary report required by law. af ut
alice candidate. . . woe.) (aLsumimary page ut the form required by the | appears hata ted sunmian report does nut conform te
(ht bach school hoard office candidate shall report ta hentenant govenior that ident fies: the law, or the leutenant gavenior has received a written
| the chief election offiger each contribution and public (beginning balance; . complaint alleging a wiolition of the law or the falsity of
aemice assistance within 30 days after the contribution ar (ri) total contribubons dunng the penod since the last ' atiy sumntan, teport, the Geutenant governor shall, within
public service assistance is received. Matenent five days of discovery of a violation or receiplof a wntten
. ce an . eee . G11) total contributions te date: . - Seas complaint, uotiy the state school board candidate of the
20-11-1302. School board office candidate — Civ} total expenditures during he period. since the last sivlation or written coniphaint and direct the state school
Financial reporting requirements — Year-cad summary statement, and board candidate ta file a summary report correcting the
repart. cs coe uo - . sh ov rtotal expenditures to date. ands coe problem . - .
C1) tat bach school beard office candidate shall file a Gordie nang ofa pelacal action conunittee for which COLOd tis untawtul for any state schoo! board cauididate
summary report by January 10 of the year after the regular the school board office candidate is desiymated as an _4o Taito He oraiiend a summary. report widun 14 days.
general election year. UT Cet Whe has pritiiacy docusiitisiikiad aikhionty aides atten Peel ving hotice fiona thie Heutetadil xovertion itcer
Cb) diaddaion Go the requunictis Gf Subsections CPG. Seetiot TUA]TP-6G4, tls scetigi, .
wtormer school board office caricitlate thathas rot filed the 7 3} Ga) For all individual contributions ef pubiie service “din Fach state schoo board candidate who’ violates
stulement of dissolution aud final stanmary repert required assistance of $50 of less, a single aggregate Hause may he Subscotion (241) is guilty Gf a class Boanisdemeatior
under Section 20A.1 1-1 304 shall continue to filea _feported without separate detailed listings. . a _ . (an) The lieutenant governor shall reportall violations
shiiniary report on Janiary 10 of cack year. (hy Two ormore vortobutons from the satie source of Sibsection (2000) ta the altomiey genera,
(2) Ga) Bach summary report shall include the following that have an agerevate total of more than $50 may aot be C3) (ar Within 30 days alter a deadhine for the tihng ofa
: informaditn ‘as GF Deceniber Ub of the pfeviois year 7” reputed faethe aggregate. bul shall he reported separately “Cstiimaaly report, de Ghurity clirk shall resisw cach fled
4) the net hulance of the hist Ruanecal statement, Pay: (4) 00 tn preparing each iitenin report, all receipts and SUMMARY repart to cnsure diat
(ida single figure equal to the total amountol receipts expenditures shall be reported as.uf (ive days betore the 2. OY each docalschuol beard candidate Uhat is required to.
reported on all interini reports, iuny, during the pravicus required Filtng date of the report Nily a stimamary report has filed one, aiid
year,” Ob) Any negotiable instritient ar check received by a Co tach SuMMtary fepert contans the itformation
tan asmgle fury Gqrad to the totalanouriter “ schedl hoard office candidate more than five days before required by this part 7
expenditures reported ob all anton reports. any, tiled the required fling date of as report required by this section (hy WaCappeses that any local school board candidate
dunng the previous your, Lo ~ shall he uichided in the interim report... - . : has tated.to fe-the summary coport required by Law. if it
Cgadytailed lta of each receipt, contribution, and appears thata filed summary cepart does pot contora te
pubhy service assistance since the Last summary report Chat 2A-11-1304. School hoard office candidate ~ the flaw er ef the counts clerk has recereed a written,
his not beet: reported indétail on an anterim ropett: . Financial reporting requirements = Termination of ‘comiphint alleging a violation of the kaw or the falsity ef
(vitor cach nepimonetury coutabibed, duty ta report, aly suOMary report, the coumty clork shill, within five
CAbthe fair market yalue of the conterbution with that Ci} bach schootboand candidate is.subjeette interaay days of discovery ofa violation ur recerptaf a weiter
informuadion provided by the cortribetar. and reporting requiremerits und the candidate verdhdeawes er is complaint, netty the fecal school board candidute of the
(Braspeaficaescnphen of the centerbutar, chimunitind na primary viphition of enitton comipbaint ant direct the focal achea!
(suavdetated fisting of cach expenditure made singe the (iy back schoo! Board office sarabidate is sahyect to hoard candidate te Te a senimary repent cornet the
Lat Maniian report that has rot been reported us detiad en Year-chd suman feperting teguirenients weel the prebion
an interim repent : . cauidate Has -tledea statement of dissolution with dic for) This maw lil for aig local school heard
(vet for cach eommanetary expenditure, the lair niarket Heulanant posemur stating duit candidate to fail to fie or aniend a sumenary report within
yale of the expendituce: Gri the school board office cumbdate ts ne longer {4 awe ater ceverving notice trom the contty clerk ander
(Hd aed balances for the oar consisting ofthe act recetving contributions and is te longer makity this section 7 :
balance from: the last summiary report. Hany. ples afl expenditures, (0) Bach focal scheol board candidate whe violates
receipts tinus all expenditures; and (by the cmiing balance on the Let sunimmary ceport fled Subsection (Wey is maity of a class Boamisdenieaner
Os) the mame ef a politcal aetion: commnttve for which is aot and the balaice i the separate bank deconnt 24H) Phe counts clerk shall repert all elotations of
the sche board eftice- candidate is desiumated as an > ** peqtaréd in Section TOAST EAROR ys zene: and? : SO Sibsectian PWS Tier the district or comity attores
olfieer whe hay primary dlecitereimaking authority under .
Page 4
