ob ;
7 CACHE COUNTY CLERK
” SCHOOL BOARD CANDIDATE :
oe FINANCIAL CAMPAIGN REPORT
The financial campaign law for school board candidates is in the Utah Code reference SO GET 2014 palin
: 20A-11-1301 through 204-11-1305. The law is also printed on page four of this report.
| TO J | [| Zo Hin jer . : County Clerk
| Full Name of Candidate __ Q Aa nd a | Todd Ba. | aa __ ee
| City _ roV id ENCE Utah gs 332 :
~ ~ 2
| . , ‘Representative District uy
in the Cac he Co unt Y _Schoot District
:
TOTALS FROM + TOTALS FROM CUMULATIVE
! LAST REPORT _ THISREPORT ~ REPORT
: 1. Total contributions of donors who gave more 0) O
| than $50.00 (from form “A” on page 2) $ $ O % ;
!
| 2. Aggregate total of contributions of $50.00 or less $ O $ : © $ O
| ; .
)
_ 3. Total campaign expenses ; agp a U4
(from form “B” on page 3) $ oO $ HET AT 44 $ HAT t Ul
0 wyp4t gg? 4
4. Balance at the end of this reporting period $ $ _ § CF
I do hereby certify that, to the best of my knowledge, all receipts and expenditures have been reported for the
period beginning _ / ; “4 3 ( { 20 f | andending _| O- Zz. $—- ] ] _
and that there are no bills or obligations outstanding and unpaid except as set forth in this report.
pe Ipo- 21- ! 4 _____ Signed Kindieht Buf .
|
|
8-4 PG School
Carr Printing Company, Bountiful, Utah :
Complete Election Supply Service Since 1902 Page 1 |
Joos : |

»
os ITEMIZED CONTRIBUTION REPORT (Form “A”)
Date Name of Contributor Mailing Address & Zip Code Amount

ce
|
__
: ESE .
: . mm
| a
|
NR A AR A
ee
po , Sn
(if adaitional space is needed, use blank paper and list information like the above forma: and file with this report)
| : Page 2

a
: ITEMIZED EXPENDITURE REPORT (Form “B’)
Date of Person or Organization
Expenditure To Whom Expenditure was made Purpose of Expenditure Amount
— fo-2-14 Signs onthe Cheap __ Syne and. Stands 204
(079-14 Graphic Swans TE ac Stgas
orate Staples "tin and paper for Fliers) [0°57
|
| Se .
_ ee
; |
a a
Page 3

y
| 2GA-T1-1301. School board office candidate — Sect FGA-bL-GHL. (ela ibar stmagany report in tte Totnes required gy
Vhatipargn finance requircuieats -- Candidate as a (2) 07) For alt individea! cuitabutiona or pubic sercice Seetion JO4- TET 80% showy a zero bataner is attached la
1 political action counmitiee officer. assistance of £50 oF less, a site aggregate fianere ting be ie statcrient OF diasGiutien

1} fat CF Rack schol board office Candidate shal reported withows sepanite deuiiecd (isting, COPA slatemont or Gisscluticn and @ fina! sutaary
depusit cack vonlriivdion and pubuis servicg anaishines Gi} lowe or secre contributions drome Che sae seurce report may be Aled at ary time, .
received i one oF ore sepals accounts ata Tasanciar frat have an aggrevaty tolad of siete Uiae $80 usay net be OP) ach school board office canctdlate shai! contiare te
instiader that are dedivatud Gaby to that purpose reported in the aguregate, but sill be reported separately, Ale tiie vear-und Sunutiary report required Dy Suction 2G4-

GA schoe! bowd office candidate wiay: (Oh Fn prepare dhe report. ait receipts ani oxpenciercs Pi-G302 wil the statement of dissclotion and final

{Al recetve a cuntnibetian or public service assistance: shall be reported as of Deconiber 21 ef the previous year. SUiktiary report requitayt hy his section are fife.
froni a polticul action camuuttee registered under Section: a A check or negotabie mistrument received by a
204-114-601, and schoo! board uffice candidate on or before Decaiber 3b of 2UA-11-1305. School beard office candidate — Eaiture

(By be desiunited by a political actlon comuuittes as ar the previous year shal! ne ticiuded in the sunimary report to file statement -- Penatiies. :
offiver who bas primary decision-making actherity is C4) The schoot board office candidate shal! certify tn the (Vi Ga a school board office candidate fads to fle ar
described in Section 2GA-14-601, suunmary report that, to die best oF the schoe! board oflice interini repert dug belore the regular primary election, on

thy A schoo! board efhice candidite mary not use money candidate's knowiedge, all reecipts and al! experiditures August 3]or belore the regular genera! ivotion, the chie!
deposited in an account described ib Subsection €] iajit have been reported as of December 31 of the previous year clection officer shall after muiking a reasonahic atlorpt ta
for, and Gat there are ne bills oF obligations outstanding and discover ifthe report was Gimely fled: ~

(2) a persona! use expenditures or unpaid except as sot forth ie diat report. (tanto: the county clerk and other appropriate

QU) a expenditure prohibited by law ehection aflicials who:

(2p A schoo! board office candidate nuiy nat deposit or 2UA-11-1303. School board office candidate — CA) (shall if pricticaite, remove the name of the
ningle any contributions or public service assistance Pinaneial reporting requirements - Eaterim reports, candidate front the oaliots before the ballot are delivered
received untG a persona! or business account, (2) Bach school board office candicate shail file a te vole vor

(3) A school board office candidate may not make any interim: report at the following tinies in any year in whieh Cj shall, if removing the candidate's nanig front the
political expenditures probibited by law the caniidate has fled a declaration of candidacy fora ballot is not practicable, inform the voters by any

| . (4) 1% person who is ng donger a school board public office: Practicabic method that dis candidate hiss beer disqualilies:
candidate chooses nol tg expend the money renainiag ina fa} May TS, for state school board office candidates: anc tat voles cast for candidate will nat be counted: and
campaign account, the person stall contuiue tu file the (b} sevens days before the regular primary election date, CB] may not count any votes for that candidate: and
yeur-cnd suntiary report required by Section 20A- 11-1302 ic) August 34, and : (i) impose a fine against the filing entity in accerdance
anu! the statement of dissciudon and fina! stanmary report id) seven days before the regular general election date with Section 204-11- 1005

required by Section 2GA-11-1304 are fileo with, (7) [ach uitenm: report shal! include the foliowing Co} Any school board office candidate whe fails te file

{a} the Gentenant gavernor in the case ofa state schac! udormation: timely a financial statement required hy Subsection 20 A+

| boar! candickite: anid - fa} the net balance of dhe last summary report, if aay, LL-PS0SCP)bS, fo) oF fy is disqualified and the VACUCY O1F

¢b) the county clerk, ir the ease of a focal schoul board iby a single figure equal te the total amount of revelpts the ballet may be filled as provided mi Section 20A4:1-501

| candidate reported On ail prior interim reports, if any, during the (c) Notwithstanding Subsections (Lia) and (hitb), a

(3) (a) bacepi as provided in Subsection (3)(b) and calendar year i: which the interim report is due; school bourd office candidate is not disqualified ane the

Section 264-121-402, a person who is no longer a school - (c} a single figure equal to the total amount of chief elechan officer may not inipese a fing if:

| dourd candidate may not expend or transfer the money in a expenditures reported on al! prior interin: reports, 1 any, CU the candidate timely flies die reports required by this

campaign account in a manner that would cause the former fied during the calendar year in which the interim repart ts section in accordance with Section 204-1 1-103:

: school board candidate to recognize the money as Laxabie due; ye 0) those reports are completed, detaning uccunely anc

Income under federal tax law (d) a detaiied listing of each contribution and public completely the information required by this part except ior

! (6) A person. whe is no longer a schoo! board candidate service assistance received since the last summary repert inadvertent omissions or insign leant errors or

may transier the mouey lia campaign account ma manner that has not been reported us dete! on a prior interim inucecuracies: anid

that would cause the former schec! board candidate te repart, {thy these oraissions, errors, of inaccuracies described in

| recogntve the inoney as taxable income under federal tax (e) for cach nommenetary contribution: Subsection (1 yew) are corrected in: .

{ law al the uansfer is made to a campaign account for (1) the tuir market value of the contribution with thal (A}an amentied report; or

federal oflice infonnation provided by the contributor: and (B) the next scheduled report

(6) (a) As used in this Subsection (6) and Section 264+ (i) a specific description of the contribution: (2) (ay Within 30 days afler a deadiine jor the filing of a

I T1-1303, “received? means Cf) a detailed [sting of each expenditure mais since the sluinmary report by a. candidate fir state sehiou! hoard. the

) (9 for a cash contridution, diat the cash is giver toa last suinmary report that has not been reported tn detail on Heutenant govertor shall review each flied stnumary report

school board office candidate ora member of the a@ prior interim report; te ensure that:

| candidate's persorial campaign committee: (wz) for each nonmonetury expenditure. the fair market © (i) cach state school board candidate that is required to

(1) for a contnoution thal is a negotiable unstrument or value of the expenditure; file 4 summary report has fled one: arid :

| check, dat the negotiabie instrument or check is (iti a net balance for the vear consisting of the net (a) each summary réport contains the information

7 negotiated, and balance fron: the lust summary report, if any, plus al required by this part.

| (iu) for any other type of contribution, that any portion receipts since the last sunumary report uunus all (Co) Ef it appears that any state schoul buard candidate
of the conuibution’s benefit inures to the schuo! board expenditures singe the last sunumary report, has failed to file the stunmary report required by lw, if at

| oftice candidate (1) a summary page i the form required by the appears that a filed sumuuary report dues not conform te

Th) back schoo! hoard office candidate shall report to Liewenan! governor that identifies: the law, or the leulenant vovemor has received a written

| the chief election officer eack contmbution and public {ij beginning baiance; compiaint ulleging a violation of the law or the falsity of

service assistance within 30 days after the contribution or (u) total contributions during the penod since the last any summary report, the heutenant governor shall, withie

! public service assistance is received statement: five days of discovery of a viedation or receiptefa written

| (i) total coutributions to date; cumplaint, notify the state school board candidate of the

20A4-11-1302. Schoot board office candidate — fiv} total expenditures during the period since the Last wioiation or written complaint and direct the siate schoo!

| Financial reporting requirements — Year-end suminary statement; and board candidate to file a summary report correcung the
report. (vi total expenditures to date: and preblem, . : :

(Ey ca! Bach schoo! board office candidate shall file a Q) the nane of a political action conunittee for which fo} GF Ut is unlawful for any state school board candidate
summury report by January 1G of the year after the regular the schuol board office candidate is designated as.an to fail to file or amend a sunumary report within 14 days
general election year, officer who fias pnmary decision-making authority under after receiving notice irons the lieutenant governor under

(b} In addition wo the requirements of Subsection (i ya). Section 204-1 1-661 Uns section. ° i"

a dormer schoo! board office candidate that has not fled the (31 (a) Fer ali meividuai contndutions or public service 4) Bach state school board candidate who violates
statement OF dissolution anc final summary report required assistance of $50 or ivss, a siugie aggregate figure may be Subsection (2WEWU Is guilty of a class % inisdeméanor
under Section 204-121-1304 shall continue to file a reported without separais detailed listings. (iii) The beuleaant governor shalt report all violations
slinoary report on Junnary 1G of each wear (oi Two or more contributions from the same source “of Subsection (2.4) te the attorney genera!

(2) (a) Bact summary report shall include the following that have an aggregate (otal of uiore thar $50 may not be (3a (ay Within 30 days atter a deadline for du fliingofa
information as GT Decamber 31 Gf the previous your reported ib the aggregate, but shall be reported separaicly subuuary report, the county clerk shall raview each fled

(1) the net balance of the Just financial statement, 1f any: (4) (a) ln preparing each interim report, ali receipts and sunuuaty report to ensure thal

Oi} a smaie figerc equal te the total amount of receipts expenditures shall be reported as of five days before the Gj cach local school bourd caudidute thal is required i
reported on ah intertan reports, Pany, during the previous required fihoyg dais of the report, file a sunumary report fas Aled emer and :

years (oy Any negotiable instrument or check received by a (ii cach suinamary report contams the infonuatian

(i) a single figure equal to the total anicunt of schoo! board office candidate more thar five days betere required by this part,
expenditures reported on al! interim reports, if any. ed the required tiling date of a report required by this section (DULL tappears that any fecal schou! board candidate
dunng the previeus year: shall be inctuded un: the interim: report. has faded tu file the sutumary repart reauired by law, if il

Ov] a detailed hsting af each receipt, contribution, atid appeurs that a filed Summary report dees nat conform: te:
public Service assistance since the last summary report thait 204-T1-134, School board office candidate — the taw, or if the county cierk has received a writler;
has net been reperted in detad on an interim report, Vinancial reporting requirements - Termination af complaintaleging a vigialion of the law or the falsity of

(vi for cash ionmenetury contribution: duty to report. any suhumary report, the county clerk shall within five

(A) the fair market vate of the contethution wil that (1) Beech school board cuidate is subject to interiin Gays of discovery oF a vidiatior or receipt of a written
liformation provided by the contributor, anc reporting reguireienis tint! ine candidate witharayes Gr is eumpaint molly the toca: schoo! bowrd candidate of the

(Ba spouts description of the cantrinution @iinunated iy a pmmary. viclaten or written complaint gud direct the local show!

Gap a Getaicd fisting of each expenditure miide suce the (2) Bach sche! bord office candidate ie subject te board candidate te Te a Samumary repert correcting the

- isi Summary report that his nat been repurted ac detalii on year-end summary reporting requirenvenis untif die problems, :
an interim! report: candidate has Bled s statement-of dissouition with the (eh p iis maid for any ocai schue! board

tyul lor cach neanmnnctary expenditure, the fiz market Heutenmil guverior stating that vandidats We faci in file er amend a stumman: report within .
value of the expenditures fa} the schoot board office canghdate is ne innger i6 days aller receiving notice from the county clerk wader

ivntba net balance jon dic year consistigg of the ret recenvings comimbutions and is ue bonger inaking this section. 7
balance iron die last stammiary report, 17 any, pins all expenditures; fos Rach loci achoe, heard candidate whe sioiatas
FeCceipts muipus alt expendiures, att (2) the cuding balance on the iast surmary repert fie! Subsection (3 0j(00) is eurkty cla class Boamisdencanor

Ci the vane af a poltesi action commmltes for which is vere anid the balance in the separate bask accatist Ci} She ctiunty clerk shat report all yielntians off
fhe sehool board office candidute is des:gnatvd us an required inf Section 204-117-1307 is verce and Subseotion GUL) to the disirist or county attorney
otficer who has priman decisianatking authority under

Page 4 ,

[ ' fea
|

|
