DEC/04/2014/THU 04:42 PM PAY No. P. 002
: SCHOOL BOARD CANDIDATE . GRCHE COUNTY CLERK
FINANCIAL CAMPAIGN REPORT
the financial-campaign-taw for school board caniidates.is.in.the Cache County Code 2,21...
EE The lav is also printed on page four of this report. ~~ RRGUTRTUEC STS oO
TO si & Lb Wwe County Clerk
Full Naame of Candidute — — NoaaPan Cdn Sete Las pee ae
Street Address 198 W. . Ma —_—
City btn Utah 84_ 324
Phone: Home _ 35 770 92 lo “Business _ Z if 3 - {6 do
Office Sdrsot (Deared
tyres ef
Representative District
in Che Con. Gecleny $ haat aS School District
SOTALS FROM TOTALS FROM CUMULATIVE .
LAST REPORT. + THIS REPORT REPORT

1. Total contributions of donors who yave more O .

than $50.00 (from form “A™ on puge 2) $ 6 $ £ ¢ "

5 oO “

2. Agyrepate total of contributions of $30 or less §$ Cx } $
3. Total campaign expenses

(fram form “B" on page 3) $ | $20 Ups 46 é, th $ Le 83 : it

. 4, Balance at the end of this reporting period S | B 20. Vtg Yb 2 te: s 228 3. (Et :
Ido hereby certify that, to the best ef my knowledye, all receipts and expenditures huve heen reported for the
period beginning /o [ 29 f cy — nd ending } ce [4 f CY _
and that there are oo bills or obligations outstanding and unpaid except as set forth in this report,
Date [Vf § / Siened
S-4 2G School
Cure Printing Company. Boratild Chih
Complete Election Sepphy Servies Since 1902 Puee |

DEC/04/2014/THU 04:42 PM FAX No. P. 003
; ITEMIZED CONTRIBUTION REPORT (Form ‘A")
Date Name of Contributor Mailing Address & Zip Code Amount
. (I additional space is needed, use blank paper and Iist information like the above formai and file with this report)
Page 2

DEC/04/2014/THU 04:42 PM PAX No. P. 004
; ITEMIZED EXPENDITURE REPORT (Form “B’) -
Date of Person or Organization
Expenditure To Whom Expenditure was made Purpose of Expenditure Amount
to feapy __Sperele pent ween ———Ebyecsy —____ Hor)
(If additional space is needed, use blank paper and list information like the above format and file with this report)
, Page 3

DEC/O4/2014/THU 04:42 PM FAX No, P. 005
2.21.040: County office candidate and officeholder—Financial reporting requirements-Post general election
summary report:
A. Each county office candidate or office holder shall file a summary report within 30 days after the general election.
B. 1. Each summary report shall include the following information: ,
__-&. The net balance of the last summary.report,ifany; =
TO BA Single Figure €qdal to the total ammount of receipts reported on all interim reports, ifany: ~  —SOS .
c. A single figure equal to the total amount of expenditures reported on all interim reports, if any, filed
during the election year;
d. A detailed listing of each contribution received since the last summary report that has not been reported
in detail on an interim report; :
e. For each nonmonetary contribution, the fair market value of the contribution;
f. A detailed listing of each expenditure made since the last summary report that has not been reported in
detail on an interim report;
g. For cach nonmonetary expenditure, the fair market value of the expenditure; and.
h. A net balance for the year consisting of the net balance from the last summary report, if any, plus all
receipts minus all expenditures.
2. For all single contributions of fifty dollars or less, a single aggregate figure may be reported without separate
detailed listings.
a. Two or more contributions from the same source that have an ageregate total of more than fifty dollars
may not be reported in the aggregate, but shall be reported separately.
3. In preparing the report, all receipts and expenditures shall be reported as of December 31* of the previous year,
Cc. 1. As used in this Subsection C, “account” means an account in a financial institution:
a. That is not described in the above Subsection B; and :
b. Into which or from which a person who, as a candidate for an office, other than a county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, or as a holder of an office, other than a county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, deposits a contribution or makes an expenditure.
2. Each county office candidate or officcholder with an account shall include on the summary report a contribution
deposited in or an expenditure made from an account
a. Since the last financial report filed; or
b. That has not been reported under a statute or ordinance that governs the account. ;
D. The summary report shall contain a paragraph signed by an authorized member of the county office candidate’s or
officeholder’s personal campaign committee or by the county office candidate or officeholder certifying that, to the best of
the signer’s knowledge, all receipts and all expenditures have been reported as of December 31* of previous year and that
there are no bills or obligations outstanding and unpaid except as set forth in that report. ;
2.21.050: County office candidate and officeholder—Financial reporting requirements~-Interim report:
A. Each county office candidate or officeholder shall file an interim report before five p.m. for the period ending cight days
before the regular general election, the report shal] be due seven days before the regular general election date.
B. The interim report shall include the following information:
pS 1. a list of each contribution of more than $50 received by the candidate, and the name of the donor:
2. an aggregate total of all contributions of $50 or less received by the candidate; and
3. a list of each expenditure for political purposes made during the campaign periad, and the recipient of each
expenditure.
C. - 1. For all individual contributions of fifty dollars or less, a single aggregate figure may be reported without
separate detailed listings.
2. Two or more contributions from the same source that have an aggregate total of more than fifty dollars may not
be reported in the aggregate, but shall be reported separately, .
D. 1. As used in this Subsection D, “account” means an account in a financial institution:
a. That is not described in the above Subsection B; and
b. Into which or from which a person who, as a candidate for an office, other than a county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, or a3 a holder ofan office, other than a county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, deposits a contribution or makes an expenditure.
2. Each county office candidate or officeholder with an account shall include on the interim report a contribution
deposited in or an expenditure made from an account that has not been reported under a stanite or ordinance that, governs :
the account. :
