ie
FINANCIAL CAMPAIGN REPORT S fe
The financial campaign law ts in the Cache County Code 2.21 a) pe
The law 1s also printed on page four of this report. Wy, a,
ty spond
TO 2 County C 4 =
ei
‘ Lj
Full Name of Candidate ‘Gordon Andrens Zillee oe =
bebe
caved
Street Address | % 35 avon 3000 S es
City bogen Utah 84 Ql a
Phone: Home ABS - 1S a-]513 . Business 425-381-929: Lk : a
Name of Office ( ounky Councilman ee __
Office District i ee
Political paty Republean
pare Warjaoie Signed hese
Candidate
TOTALS FROM TOTALS FOR CUMULATIVE
- LAST REPORT + THIS REPORT = REPORT
i. Total contributions of donors who pave
more than $59.00 ;
(from form “A on page 2 of this report) 2.2.2... ——-—---__-___ S FLAG s FLAC __-.
2. Avgrevate total of contributions
of SSO.00 or less oo. Se § §
3. Total campaign expenses ;
(from form "B™ on page 3 of this report) 2.2.2... $8 — S$ — S 943.06
4. Balance at the end of this reporting period .......8 -------. a S —C40,4Q
5-5-PG
Carr Printing Company, Bountiful, Utah
Complete Flection Supply Service Stace [902 Page 1

. ITEMIZED CONTRIBUTION REPORT (Form ‘A’) . ie
Date Name of Contributor __ =. -~Mailing Address & Zip Code Amount
Yajac®_ Gésener Foods os» ID6LN.-1000 Ww. Logan, B43 A366 |
a |
a |
|
eg eB ee }
(/f additional space is needed, use blank paper and list information like the above format and file with this report)
Page 2 . oo,

oe a ‘ITEMIZED EXPENDITURE REPORT (Form ‘B') oe

. Date of -» Person or Organization : mo,

, Expenditure To Whom Expenditure was made Purpose of Expenditure —_Amount
2) 12 Jang oo aes ¢ Goternmuck Eide Fee tt
41f@/a008 Cache Cour publ can Pach ~Chroenbnntabole 100.02.
3/l71dok Wakkine farks Store 9 paper gg
4hrjarig _.ostrvasler To taps a 50,00.
4[tB]a01% . Stayleg paper, shickers tcards 2G.
“iajanie. Waking __nepkins ¢halloms 25.53
4)y/9018 Flower Shoppe Flowers foc table 62.9%
Ht Jio|aor8 Worthing Paces Suipaly pape? 9 a
“4 Jao bowe's oad for signe 5 oR
"L[2018__Steadacd Pheintana  _PUC pipe Soc shew

Page 3

®
1 2.21.040; County office candidate and officeholder—Financial reporting requirements-Post general election ‘ ’
summary report: : ;
A. Each county office candidate or office holder shall file a summary report within 30 days after the general election. ‘
B. 1. Each summary report shal! include the following information: .
a. The net balance of the last summary report, if any; . 5
b. A single figure equal to the total amount of receipts reported on all interim reports, if any;
c. A single figure equal to the total amount of expenditures reported on all interim reports, if any, filed |
during the election year; ‘ }
d. A detailed listing of each contribution received since the last summary report that has not been reported |
in detail on an interim report; ; ,
e. For each nonmonetary contribution, the fair market value of the contribution; |
’ f, A detailed listing of each expenditure made since the last summary report that has not been reportedin -
detail on an interim report;
g. For each nonmonetary expenditure, the fair market value of the expenditure; and
ss A eet balance for the year consisting of the net balance from the last summary report, if any, plus all
reteipts minus all expenditures. BO a
, 2. For all single contributions of fifty dollars or less, a single aggregate figure may be reported without separate ,
detailed listings. .
a. Two or more contributions from the same source that have an aggregate total of more than fifty dollars . _,
may not be reported in the aggregate, but shall be reported separately. : :
3. In preparing the report, all receipts and expenditures shall be reported as of December 31" of the previous year.
Cc. 1, As used in this Subsection C, “account” means an account in a financial institution: ,
a. That is not described in the above Subsection B; and .
b. Into which or from which a person who, as a candidate for an office, other than.a county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, or as a holder of an office, other than a county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, deposits a contribution or makes an expenditure.
2. Each county office candidate or officeholder with an account shall include on the summary report a contribution
deposited in or an expenditure made from an account
a. Since the last financial report filed; or ;
b. That has not been reported under a statute or ordinance that governs the account.
D. The summary report shall contain a paragraph signed by an authorized member of the county office candidate’s or
: officeholder’s personal campaign committee or by the county office candidate or officeholder certifying that, to the best of
the signer’s knowledge, all receipts and all expenditures have been reported as of December 31% of previous year and that
there are no bills or obligations outstanding and unpaid except as set forth in that report.
2.21.050: County office candidate and officeholder—Financial reporting requirements—Interim report:
A. Each county office candidate or officeholder shall file an interim report before five p.m. for the period ending eight days
before the regular general election, the report shall be due seven days before the regular general election date.
B. The interim report shall include the following information:
1. a list of each contribution of more than $50 received by the candidate, and the name of the donor;
2, an aggregate total of all contributions of $50 or less received by the candidate; and
3. a list of each expenditure for political purposes made during the campaign period, and the recipient of each
expenditure.
C. 1. For all individual contributions of fifty dollars or less, a single aggregate figure may be reported without
separate detailed listings.
: 2. Two or more contributions from the same source that have an aggregate total of more than fifty dollars may not
___ be reported in the aggregate, but shall be reported separately, 0
Dd. 1. As used in this Subsection D, “account” means an account in a financial institution:
. a. That is not described in the above Subsection B; and
b, Into which or from which a person who, as a candidate for an office, other than a county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, or as a holder of an office, other than a county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, deposits a contribution or makes an expenditure.
2. Each county office candidate or officcholder with an account shall include on the interim report a contribution
deposited in or an expenditure made from an account that has not been reported under a statute or ordinance that, governs
the account.
