oa SCHOOL BOARD CANDIDATE
vl _ FINANCIAL CAMPAIGN REPORT
eal The financial campaign law for school board candidates is in the Cache County Code 2.21,
q, ~ The lawis also printed on page four of this report.
eed :
tere ; 7, é
POEs ( Ld A Yb) f.__._ County Clerk
FulBName of Candidate 7. tM KY /| a lg _£ lute!
— Street Address 4] (2 — IT? PLA Anne
City i _ Utah 84
Office _ ee tne
. Representative District
inthe f School District ,
TOTALS FROM + TOTALS FROM 0 CUMULATIVE
. LAST REPORT THIS REPORT =~ REPORT
1. Total contributions of donors who gave more — es 2)
; than $50.00 (from form “A”? on page 2) $ $ $ .
on. “a
2. Aggregate total of contributions of $54.00 or less $ § $
; o
3. Potal campaign expenses — — Ew)
(from form “B" on page 3) $ $ $ ‘
| - 5 SO
4, Balance af the end of this reporting period $ $ “oh
1 do hereby certify that, fo the best of my knowledge, all receipts and expenditures have heen reported Cor the
period beginning __.. and ending — ae :
and. that there are no bills or obligations ontstanding and unpaid o plas yet fagth in this i
Date fo L7 Staned iA AMGA “ y YY Lf
fed PO Sehiool
Carr Printing Company. Bountiful, Cah .
Co psnalete Dlcattan Grout Giseclon Sines 1004 Paap f

fy 1857 «SJL. Zollinger
if VAC eC Cache County Clerl/Auditor |
eal oS " Logan, UT 84321
a7 Phone: 435.755.1460 | FAX: 435.755.1980
www.cachecounty.org/clerk
<umnntnueasnaniinuiicnneiiattiatiiniitittiiitniusainnininiainiiieniinne 5 obey ep .
Frank Stewart
1146 North 680 East
Logan, UT 84341
Dear Frank:
This is to remind you that candidates in the 2018 election cycle must file a Financial Campaign
Interim Report at the office of the County Clerk by 5:00 p.m. October 30, 2018 (Cache County
Code 2.21).
Please call (755-1460) if you have any questions or concerns. |
Sincerely,
(je
JILL N. ZOLLINGER
Cache County Clerk : ,
Enclosure
|

ITEMIZED CONTRIBUTION REPORT (Form “A”) .
__Dale Name of Contributor — Mailing Address & Zip Code Amount
(If aclditional space is needed, use blank paper and list information like the above format and file with this report)
Page 2

ITEMIZED EXPENDITURE REPORT (Form ‘B”) |
Date of Person or Organization
Expenditure To Whom Expenditure was made Purpose of Expenditure Amount
: | Ld a. 7 4 a - _ f / ee {-—"
, A 7] i , 7

3 [hh ML MM — YA LMM a
(lf additional space is needed, use blank paper and list information like the above format and file with this report} ~ .
Page 3

2.21.040: County office candidate and officeholder—Financial reporting requirements-Post general election
summary report: -
A, Each county office candidate or office holder shall file a summary report within 30 days after the general election.
B. 1, Each summary report shall include the following information:
a. The net balance of the last summary report, if any;
b. A single figure equal to the total amount of receipts reported on all interim reports, if any,
c. A single figure equal to the total amount of expenditures reported on all interim reports, if any, filed
during the election year; ;
d. A detailed listing of each contribution received since the last summary report that has not been reported
in detail on an interim report;
e. For each nonmonetary contribution, the fair market value of the contribution;
{A detailed listing of each expenditure made since the last summary report that has not been reported in
detail on an interim report; :
g. For cach nonmonetary expenditure, the fair market value of the expenditure; and
h, A net balance for the year consisting of the net balance from the last summary report, if any, plus all
receipts minus all expenditures,
2, For all single contributions of fifty dollars or less, a single aggregate figure may be reported without separate
detailed listings,
a, Two or more contributions from the same source that have an aggregate total of more than fifty dollars
may not be reported in the aggregate, but shall be reported separately,
3, In preparing the report, all receipts and expenditures shall be reported as of December 31" of the previous year,
; Cc. 1. As used in this Subsection C, “account” means an account in a financial institution:
. a, That is not described in the above Subsection B; and
b. Into which or from which a person who, as a candidate for an office, other than a county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, or as a holder of an office, other than a county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, deposits a contribution or makes an expenditure.
2, Each county office candidate or officeholder with an account shall include on the summary report a contribution
deposited in or an expenditure made from an account
' a, Since the last financial report filed; or
b, That has not been reported under a statute or ordinance that governs the account. i
D, The summary report shall contain a paragraph signed by an authorized member of the county office candidate's or
officeholder’s personal campaign committee or by the county office candidate or officeholder certifying that, to the best of |
the signer’s knowledge, all receipts and all expenditures have been reported as of December 31" of previous year and that
there are no bills or obligations outstanding and unpaid except as set forth in that report. : !
2,21.050: County office candidate and officeholder-—Financial reporting requirements—Interim report; |
A, Each county office candidate or officeholder shall file an interim report before five p.m. for the period ending eight days
before the regular general election, the report shall be due seven days before the regular general election date,
B, The interim report shall include the following information:
1, a list of each contribution of more than $50 received by the candidate, and the name of the donor;
2. an aggregate total of all contributions of $50 or less received by the candidate; and
3. a list of each expenditure for political purposes made during the campaign period, and the recipient of each
expenditure.
C, 1, For all individual contributions of fifty dollars or less, a single aggregate figure may be reported without
separate detailed listings.
2. Two or more contributions from the same source that have an aggregate total of more than fifty dollars may not
be reported in the aggregate, but shall be reported separately. ;
D, 1, As used in this Subsection D, “account” means an account in a financial institution:
a, That is not described in the above Subsection B; and
b. Into which or from which a person who, as a candidate for an office, other than a county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, or as a holder of an office, other than a county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, deposits a contribution or makes an expenditure.
2, Each county office candidate or officeholder with an account shall include on the interim report a contribution
deposited in or an expenditure made from an account that has not been reported under a statute or ordinance that, governs
the account.

i

|

|

i

: !

i
1
;
!
i
t

|

|

|

|

|

|
