oor
a FINANCIAL CAMPAIGN REPORT | 8
7)" "The financial campaign law isin the Cache County Code 2.21 oe ip
_... The law.is.also printed on page four of thisreport. . = By
- Ce, re Se ip
ae ee nn et weer eee ree COLUM Clerk iid
ee OT 7 a ous os
Full Name of Candidate _" AS @ I | pou! 7: (1 th
' . eal
City Aspe Uuh 4520
Phone: Home _ BS-(G ETS 73. > Business Lig Capuee  ' Shue J)
- Name.of Office ——Qcle Gasty Cownoil a |
, Candidate
re | oe lope te gp ae rotdis cRoM Tats KOR eumutarive
ce a i ae went cha es _.. «LASTREPORT ..+. |. THIS REPORT. on REPORT...
1. Total cdélittibutions of donors who gave 7" * oe oN we :
(from form “A" on page 2 of this report) ........8 TSO SS — S Je
2. Aggregate total of contributions a - | a . : oe
of $50.00 Gr fess oD § Sg Se
(fromform “B" on. page 3 of this.report) 0.002. .08 53.06 S. Oo oS S43. b
4, Balance at the.end.of this reporting period ....... Ss weeny ec ne eee neem te Ss 6460.92_
Carr Printing Company, Bountiful, Utah
Complete Glection Supply Service Since [902 Pagel

‘ ITEMIZED CONTRIBUTION REPORT (for 4”)
Date Name of Contributor “7° 7 * “Mailing Address & Zip Code Amount
(if additional space is needed, use blank paper and tist information like the above format and te with this report)
Page 2 _ BS wa oy ‘

‘ .
yO ; vo ‘ITEMIZED EXPENDITURE REPORT (form ‘B’) Co
Date of _. «> Personor Organization... ; woe,
Expenditure To Whom Expenditure was made - Purpose of Expenditure Amount
i Se ae tis ite ia eS —_—— — a
(1 additional space is needed, use blank paper and list information like the above format and file with this report)
Page 38 .

. |
’ 2.21.040: County office candidate and officeholder—Financial reporting requirements-Post general election ,
summary report: ,
A. Each county office candidate or office holder shall file a summary report within 30 days after the general election. }
B. |. Each summary report shall include the following information: ; . . |
a. The net balance of the last summary report, if any; ,
b. Assingle figure equal to the total amount of receipts reported on all interim reports, if any; |
c. A single figure equal to the total amount of expenditures reported on all interim reports, if any, filed
during the election year;
oe d. A detailed listing of each contribution received since the last summary report that has not been reported
in detail on an interim report;
; ‘e, For each nonmonetary contribution, the fair market value of the contribution;
f, A detailed listing of each expenditure made since the last summary report that has not been reported in
detail on an interim report; :
g. For each nonmonetary expenditure, the fair market value of the expenditure; and
h. A net balance for the year consisting of the net balance from the last summary report, if any, plus all
receipts minus all expenditures. :
2. For all single contributions of fifty dollars or less, a single aggregate figure may be reported without separate
detailed listings, - ; .
a. Two or more contributions from the same source that have an aggregate total of more.than fifty dollars
may not be reported in the aggregate, but shall be reported separately.
3. In preparing the report, all receipts and expenditures-shall be reported.as of December 31° of the previous year.
C. 1. ‘As used in this Subsection 'C, “account” means ‘an accoiint.in.a financial institution:
: a. That is not described in thé above Subsection B; arid ,
b, Into which or from which.a person who, as 4 candidate for an office, other than.a county office for
which the person files a:declaration of candidacy or federal office, of as a holder of an office, other than a county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, deposits:a contribution or makes an expenditure.
2, Each county office candidate or officeholder with an account shall include on the summary report a contribution
deposited in or an expenditure made from an account ;
a Since the last financial report filed; or: : ; ; ;
b.-That has not-been reported undef a statute or ordinance that governs the account.
D. The summary report shall contain a'paragraph signéd by an authorized. member of the county office candidate’s or
officeholder’s personal campaign committee or by the county office candidate or officeholder certifying that, to the best of
the signer’s knowledge, all-receipts and all expénditures have been teported as of December 31" of previous year and that
there are no bills or obligations outstanding and unpaid except as set forth in that report. .
2.21.050: County office candidate and.officeholder—Financial reporting requirements—Interim report:
A. Each county office candidate or officeholder shall file an interim report before five p.m. for the period ending eight days
before the regular general election, the report-shall be due seven days before the regular general election date.
B. The interim report shall include the following information:
1. a list’of each contribution of more than $50 received by the candidate, and the name of the donor;
2. an aggregate total of all contributions of $50 or Jess received by the candidate; and
3. a list of each expenditure for political purposes made during the campaign period, and the recipient of each
expenditure,
Cc. . 1. For all individual contributions of fifty dollars or less, a single aggregate figure may be reported without
separate detailed listings. ; .
2. Two or more contributions from the same source that have an aggregate total of more than fifty dollars may not
be reported in the aggregate, but shall be reported separately,
D. 1. As used in this Subsection D, “account” means an account in a financial institution:
a. That is not described in the above Subsection, B; afd
b. Into which or from which a person who, as a candidate for an office, other than a county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, or as a holder of an office, other than a county office for
; which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, deposits a contribution or makes an expenditure,
2. Each county office candidate or officeholder with an account shall include on the interim report a contribution
deposited in or an expenditure made from an account that has not been reported under a statute or ordinance that, governs
the account. .
