Wi :
ey _— na /
7 FINANCIAL CAMPAIGN REPORT | 5 |
"The fidaridial campaign law is in'the Cache County Code 2.21 i, i
; The law.is also printed on page four of thisreport... re
10 enone a ON Zo NOE cme ener COUT CI Ge i
we

Full Name of Candidate ~ Pe Ro Roeve cue an
Street Address WAS Engr /S00 Nore sn nenent teenie abncean i
City 06 AN ta i |
Phone: Home BS -999- VISY _ Business i Le 2 i
nies vistriot = COCA Sept Fe
CNaltdiate ;
Oo ss TOTALSFROM == TOTALSFOR = CUMULATIVE
cen ab erie van . . LASTREPORT = ..+ THIS REPORT . = : REPORT.
1. Total ediftributions of donors who gave ~~ i : “ vee coe :
(from form "A" ont page 2 ef this report)... 8 1 O49-G7 § $ Lb 4967. i
of $50.00 dr lags oD eS 2800 s ee D: 5 2 25100.
(rom. form"B? on page 3 of this report) oo... 8 , £ 1 SS etteeeetmnamtananssine gS atten einai
4. Bahince at the end.of this reporting period o.oo. .S _o 8 at 5 Oo . Sen oO )
{

Carr Printing Company, Bountifid, Grail .
Complete Election Supply Service Since 1902 Page 1 |

‘ ITEMIZED CONTRIBUTION REPORT (form ‘49 i
Spe. Pave BomvP. oe lone tne, Lose Or 8 13H M2. 50 7
payee ID... 7

ie . i

#a ie TE 7
Oe |I8. Mie epee pr eer 520 abort, Lond UC BH 2srep
. a

ce a
|

cate im I AIH I ATT RA NSA, i |
ee en 7
|

eigenen ee ienes ceinpeine, nett inntuinimustasna(netenneie intimin i tena eine ein Stee seneanhnnen nent tnettnn nmin nuetcaninittn nese tergtreninent onan eee tetera
eee ae cena ne enn mentee nal tt ate nanan eee int ani antennae nT he ent sna eee )

Page 2 . ; ,

. |

oo a ITEMIZED EXPENDITURE REPORT (orm ‘8 . oo |
Date of Person or Organization —. - a
Expenditure To Whorn Expenditure was made Purpose of Expenditure Amount ;
BVA. crete Couey ui oe [12.5 |
: ~ ° ¥ a ar a nas semen Perm eat emainesin wine la A

Bhal® SIGN Tis, we Be 8G
Zale Stew? Pei oN enor eg
Sle. Stew Ths de, eb Sibu TTR 00 |
we nes oe woot tf Fea : a ., a : . oe ene |

She wrens Pel yes OW
eer arsenate nce ———e———— Ee — es SeyTrrenimete serie Sm tte an —ereemmee, |
a Rc we i
preteen siptineiie S aa atin se rae ~ et ELA At tm ene cee ree a ;
cecrrminems creates ae cette guitare peter ttt near intrest ie oti on a oN nein then tees Gentine, dene i
(Hf additional space is needed, use blank paper and list information tke the above format and tle wiih this report) ‘ |

Page 3 . |

i
i 2.21040: County office candidate and officeholder-—Financial reporting requirements-Post general election
siumimary report '
A. Each county‘office candidate or office holder shall file'a summary report within 30 days after the general election, a i
B, t. Each sunimary report shall include the following information: :
a, The net balance of the last summary report, if any; :
b. A.single figure equal to the total amount of receipts: reported-on all interim reports, if any; :
¢, A-single figure equal to the total amount of expenditures reported on all interim reports, if any, filed
during the election year; :
dA. detailed listing of each contribution received since-the last summary report that has not been reported
in detail onan interim report:
e, For each ronmonetary contribution, the fair market value of the contribution;
F. A detailed listing ofeach expenditure made since the last sammuary report that has not been reported in
detail on an interim report;
a. For éach nonmonetary expenditure, the fair market value of the expenditure; and
; h. A net balance for the year consisting of the tet balance from the last summary report, iFany, plas all
receipts minus all expenditures.
2. For all single contributiong-of fifty dollars or less, a single agprepate figure may be reported without separate
detailed listings, ; :
a. Two ormore: contributions from the same sotirse that have an aggregate total of more than fifty. dollars
. may not be-reported in the aggregate, but shall be-reported separately.
3, In preparing the report, all réceipts-and expenditures-shall be reported as of December 31" of the previous year,
CG, 1. As-used in-this Subsection C, “account” means an accountin.a financial institution:
a. That is not described in the above Subsection B; and °
b. lmto which or from which a person who, as a candidate for‘an.office, other than.a county-office-for
awhich the person files a declaration.of candidacy or federal office, or-as-a-holder of an office, other than-a-county office for
which the person files a declaration-of candidacy or federal office, deposits a.contribution or makes-an expenditure.
2. Each county-office candidate or officebolder with an accountshall include on.the summary report a contribution
deposited in or an expenditure made'fram.an account
a. Since the last financial report filed; or
b. Fhat has-not been reported under astatuite or ordinance that governs the accdunt.
D. The summary-report-shall contain.a paragrapl: signed by an authorized member of the county office candidate's or
: officcholder’s: personal canipdign committee. or by the county office candidate-or officeholder certifying that, tothe -best of
the signer’s knowledge, all receipis and all expenditures have been reported'as of December 31°'of'previous year and that
there are:no bills or obligations outstanding and-unpaid-except.as set forttin that report. ;
2.214.050: County office candidateand offiecholder—PFinancial reporting requirenrents—Interim report:
A. Each county office candidate or-officeholdershall file-an interim report-before five-p.m, for the period ending eight days :
before the regular general election, the report shall be due seven days before the regular general clection date.
B. The interiny report shall include the following information:
I, alistofeach contribution of more than $50 received by:the candidate, and the name of the donor;
Zan aggregate total of all contributions of $50-or less received by the candidate; and
; 3.-8 list of each. expenditure for political purposes made during the campaign. period, and the-recipient-of each
expenditure.
en 1, For-all individual contributions of fifty dollars or less, a single aggregate figure may be reported without
separate detailed listings.
2. Two or more contributions from the same source-that have an aggregate total of more thait filly dollars may not
be reported in the aggrepate, but shall be reported separately,
dD, 1, As used in this Subsection D, “account means an account inn finanetal institution:
- a. Thatisnot described it the above Subsection B; and
b. Inte which oF from-which a person who, as a candidate for atroftice, other than a-county office for
which the person files. 4 declaration. of candidacy or federal office, or-as-a-holder ofan office, other than.a county office for ,
which the-person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, deposits a contribution or makes an expenditure.
2. Each county office candidate or officeholder with an account shall include on the:interim report a contribution
deposited in or an expenditure made from an-account that has. not-been reported under a.statute or ordinance. that, governs
the secourit, :
