=
FINANCIAL CAMPAIGN REPORT s
/ The financial campaign law is in the Cache County Code 2.21 : =
_ The law is also printed on page four of this report. — i,
a)
‘ \ . - ies
TO. ill Zollinger oe County Clerk i
: a . saat}
1
Full Name of Candidate SUN: Zollinger ee hi
wind
Street Address Wats WeSo60 &. .- - -. -- Oe
City oe . Utah $4 AAl oe
Cell
Phone: Home 495-157-3250 _ . Business 0
~— Naneoronice Cache. County Clerk {Auditor
Office District
a _ .
Political Party Ke publi COLYL. = : po ss
Date Lo- ~) -{ 8 ws Signed Lit s
Candidate
oS TOTALS FROM TOTALS FOR CUMULATIVE
. Lo . Le LAST REPORT + THIS REPORT . = REPORT
1. Total cotitributions of donors who gave : : : a
more than $50.00 . ; .
(from form “A” on page 2 of this report) ........8 oO S OF S _ oO
2. Aygreyate total of contributions oe .
of SS0.00 Or less oe ee eee S an © eee S -_.o . . S _ Oo a
3. Total campaign expenses yt 9. :
(from form "B” on page 3 of this report) 2.2 .....8 ou Qu S oe S H5 DY.
4. Balance at the end of this reporting period 2.0... 08 bY. S Oo . S BY. wale
Care Printing Company, Bountiful, Utah
Complete Election Supply Service Since 1902 Page 1

, ITEMIZED CONTRIBUTION REPORT (Fors ‘A”) |
Date Name of Contributor “8% *>sMailing ‘Addiess & Zip Code Amount |
(additional space is needed, use blank paper and lyst information like the above format and fle with this report)
Page 2 , _ oo,

eo. .
o a “ITEMIZED EXPENDITURE REPORT (form ‘8”) vee
Date of +: Personor Organization. . . . Sa Oo
Expenditure To Whom Expenditure was made - Purpose of Expenditure Amount
A rt,
ee Coe eR Rn _ es
(Uf actiitional space is needed, use blank paper and list information like the above format and file with this report)
. Page 8

) 2,.21.040: County office candidate and officeholder—Financial reporting requirements-Post general election
summary report: |
; A. Each county office candidate or office holder shall file a summary report within 30 days after the general election. ,
B. 1. Each summary report shall include the following information: . ,
a. The net balance of the last summary report, if any; ,
b. A single figure equal to the total amount of receipts reported on all interim reports, if any; ,
_ c, A single figure equal to the-total amount of expenditures reported on all interim reports, if any, filed ,
during the election year; : |
: d. A detailed listing of each contribution received since the last summary report that has not been reported ,
in detail on an interim report; . |
‘e, For each nonmonetary contribution, the fair market value of the contribution; ,
f. A detailed listing of each expenditure made since the last summary report that has not been reported in
detail on an interim report;
g. For each nonmonetary expenditure, the fair market value of the expenditure; and
h. A net balance forthe year consisting of the net balance trom the last summary report, if any, plus all
receipts minus all expenditures.
2. For all single contributions of fifty dollars or less,.a single aggregate figure may be reported without separate
detailed listings. . ; :
a. Two of more contributions from the same source that have an aggregate total of more than fifty dollars
may not be reported in the aggregate, but shall be reported separately.
3, In preparing the report, all receipts and expenditures shall be reported as of December 31* of the previous year.
C. 1. As used in. this Subsection 'C, “account” means an account in a financial institution;
a. That is not described in the above Subsection B; and :
b, Into which or from which a person who, as-a candidate for an office, other than.a county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office; or.as a holder of an office, other than a county office for
which the person files a declaration of carididacy or federal office, deposits a contribution or makes an expenditure.
, 2, Each county office candidate or officeholder with an account shall include on the summary report.a contribution
deposited in or an expenditure made from an account ; .
a. Since the last financial report filed; or
b. That has not been reported under a statute or ordinance that governs the account.
D. The summary.feport shall contain a paragraph signed by an authorized memiber of the county office candidate’s or
‘ officeholder’s personal campaign committee or by the county office candidate or officeholder certifying that, to the best of
ihe signer’s knowledge, all receipts and all expenditures have been reported as of December 31° of previous year afd that
there are no bills or obligations outstanding and unpaid except as set-forth in that report.
2.21.050: County office candidate and. officeholder—Financial reporting requirements—lInterim report:
A. Each county office candidate or officeholder shall file an interim report before five p.m. for the period ending eight days
before the regular general election, the réport.shall be dué seven days before the regular genera! election date. ,
B. The interim report shall include the following information:
L. a list of each contribution of more than.$50 received by the candidate, and the name of the donor;
2. an aggregate total ofall contributions of $50 or less received by the candidate; and :
3. a list of each expenditure for political purposes made during the campaign period, and the recipient of each
expenditure. .
C. . 1, For all individual contributions of fifty dollars or less, a single aggregate figure may be reported without
separate detailed listings. .
2. Two or more contributions from the same source that have an aggregate total of more than fifty dollars may not
be reported in the aggregate, but shall be reported separately.
D. 1, As used in this Subsection D, “account” means an account in a financial institution: :
a. That is not described in the above Subsection B; and
b. Into which or from which a person who, as a candidate for an office, othér than a county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, or as a holder of an office, other than a county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, deposits a contribution or makes an expenditure,
2. Each county office candidate or officeholder-with an account shall include on the interim report a contribution ,
deposited in or an experiditure made from an account that has not been reported under a statute or ordinance that, governs
the account. ;
