. FINANCIAL CAMPAIGN REPORT. z
“"' ° -"" The financial caitpaign law is id the Cache County Code 2.21 0° | Be
_ The law is.also printed on page four of thisreport. ... .. .
TO Withee County Clerk rt .
'” Full Name of Candidate Pana Hewoethen 4
a . ; Saad
~ Street Address i ©. VAN ae
City Moen leq , Utah 84 PAL
Name of Office Liche Downy Conan — a
. / Candidate : :
ene pointe tue te bg cami we eee rovkie ROM lee Forks oR OT eumuiarive”
Octet ce wich lg ar _.. .LASTREPORT ..t . THISREPORT. ae . . REPORT...
1. Total édififibutions of donors whio gave 7" ca oT we es .
(from form “A” on page 2 of this report) ........8 931.50 S a iN 1475.19
of $50.00 Or eS SS — 60.17. any _ 900. $ — 1.
(from form “B” on page 3 of this report) so... 0.8 JAG S. _ BG eS 1005.00
4, Balance at the end of.this reporting period .........5 BAA we Qe OS Ww A]
Carr Printing Company, Bountiful, Utah
Complete lection Supply Service Stnce 1902 Pagé

a {TEMIZED CONTRIBUTION REPORT (form 4”) . ,
Date _Name af Conitibuitor 2 ais i *: : + Mailing Address & Zip Code Amount |
Wie Orne Wot Mela os 2 VOID APO Nt Loyth GT eH 637
whl Ia Diutyp.Acwantite __Cloela 11 cat Fey ple, IEDM nd)

(f additional space is needed, use blank paper and list information like the above format and file with this report)
Page 2 oo a - eo tek

yo a ‘ITEMIZED EXPENDITURE REPORT (form ‘BY ee .
Date of ~~: Person or Organization. a
Expenditure To Whom Expenditure was made - - ; Purpose of Expenditure ; Amount
Michi. Cage Cant Republican Toa lech. Ace Oe $100.00 _
Mit We (ed Ceca VY PUA bE
716 [19 Cadne Curry Pepialiain Rum KVehang —”  $7.50.00
: Page 3 .

’ 2.21.040: County office candidate and officeholder—Financial reporting requirements-Post general election ,
summary report: : ,
A, Each county office candidate or office holder shall file a summary report within 30 days after the general election. —

B. 1. Each summary report shall include the following information: . .
- a. The net balance of the last-summary report, if any;
b. A single figure equal to the total amount of receipts reported on all interim reports, if any;
c. A single figure equal to the total amount of expenditures reported on all interim reports, ifany, filed
during the election year; : .
; d. A detailed listing of each contribution received since the last summary report that has not been reported
in detail on an interim report; :
‘e. For each nonmonetary contribution, the fair market value of the contribution;
f. A detailed listing of each expenditure made since the last summary report that has not been reported in
detail on an interim report; ;
g. For each nonmonetary expeiditure, the fair market value of the expenditure; and
h. A net balance for the year consisting of the net balance from the last summary report, if any, plus all
receipts minus all expenditures. :
2. For all single contributions of fifty dollars or less, a single aggregate figure may be reported without separate
detailed listings. : a ; ;
; a. Two or more contributions from the same source that have an aggregate total of more than fifty dollars
may not be reported in the-aggregate, but shall be reported separately. ,
3. In preparing the report, all receipts and expenditures:shall be reported as of December 31" of the previous year.
Cc. 1. As used in this Subsection’C, “account” means an account.in a financial institution: ,

a. That is not:described in the above Subsection B; and :

. b. Into which or from which-a person who, as a candidate for an office, other than.a county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, or as a holder of an office, other than a county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, deposits a contribution or makes an expenditure.

2. Each county office candidate or officeholder with an account shall.include on the summary report.a contribution
deposited in oran expenditure made from an account :
a, Since the last financial report filed; or :
b. That has not been reported under a statute or ordinance that governs the account. ;
D. The summary report shall contain.a paragraph signéd by an authorized member of the county office candidate’s or
officeholder’s personal canipaign committee or by the county office candidate or officeholder certifying that, to the best of
the signer’s knowledge, all receipts and all expenditures have been reported as of December 31" of previous year and that
. there are no bills or obligations outstanding and unpaid except as set forth in that report. ; :
2.21.050: County office candidate and-officeholdet—Financial reporting requirements—Interim report: ;
A. Each county office.candidate or officeholder shall file an interim report before five p.m. for the period énding eight days
before the regular general election, the report-shall be due seven days before the regular general election date. :
B, The interim report shall include the following information:
1. alist of each contribution of more than $50 received by the candidate, and the name of the donor;
2. an aggregate total of'all contributions of $50 or less received by the candidate; and
3, a list of each expenditure for political purposes made during the campaign petiod, and the recipient of each
expenditure. ,
Cc. . 1. For all individual contributions of fifty dollars or less, a single aggregate figure may be reported without
separate detailed listings. ; : .
2. Two or more contributions from the same source that have an aggregate total of more than fifly dollars may not
be reported in the aggregate, but shall be reported separately. . :
D. L. As used in this Subsection D, “account” means an account ina financial institution:

a. That is not described in the above Subsection B; and :

b. Into which or from which a person who, as a candidate for an office, other than a county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, or as a holder of an office, other than a county office for :
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, deposits a contribution or makes an expenditure.

2, Each county office candidate or officeholder with an account: shall include on the interim report a contribution
deposited in or an expenditure made from an account that has not been reported under a statute or ordinance that, governs
the account. .
