‘onl
a i
- FINANCIAL CAMPAIGN REPORT a
The financial campaign law is in the Cache County Code 2.21 a Ea
The law is alse printed on page four of this report, a
ba
wa
~ . . . - lee
TO Sikh. ZeCHI VCE en RCH . County Clerk &
Full Name of Candidate _ JANES Marre. LED OSA bl
vom
—_— Cuy £2 Ze Soe oe Utah $437 = 2 mouse ee EL TT
Phone: Home “V2S7-2. 32-86 7E@__ | Business _ BS OS S46
' ee m me
Name of Ottice A Froenee © OFFICE (CACHE Coucre )
Oied District |
Political Party LE, Cbd Lo Low PEVP A. __ een eee
ele oo OE :
Date_72 L296 & Sunes er es ore i
a Conduite j
—— a _* " -YOTALSFROM == —ssSTOTALSFOR = ———SCSGMULATIVEE |
. . a Le - LAST REPORT + THIS REPORT = - REPORT
1. Tétal cdiitribattons of donors whe pave , . SS oo
more than $50.00 : . é . . .
(from form “A” on page 2 of this report) ..2.....5 CP. § $ FF
2. Agererate total of contributions ; .
af $50.00 orless ST SS OO. S Fo. 8 PF
an ¥3 5 SC
sot wane ops 7 G pd 81
3. Total campaign experises Far Pee TS
strom form “Ee om page 3 of Ubis reportp 2... OS 223. 7S § ee a eS GE
4. Balance atthe eniLof this reporting period .......5 —-0---— eee S  e S 22-35-75
; @14Y . 8
: : B28 2G
. eer ene neninaeriaa et
—————e
Carr Printing Company. Bountifil, Unb
Complote Ebeetion Supply Sercice Since 1902 Page 1

‘ , ITEMIZED CONTRIBUTION REPORT (Farm ‘A') ,
Date Name of Coritributer "4 ts Maillnig Address'& Zip Code _ Amount -
. so. . Plot 3 BL gaa FE fo 2 ae hgh es egies Stevie sb "ales Yt -
a VO Lali Bl Bt FLOM on ets ae
(UC EPTAMMRiG SO ””*C ERP  e oO To
. te 8B a cB ; Sahat ode ah ERS, wet : arenes en pe
. ; : , : a Pine at. ‘ Fo ge ~
Ap emerateeeeantrett  e A mn ne ,
- . |
wore meres RE RS RG RS St RTT I INR ec i a |
|
ce eee renee cee ie tnt in ent Tre nnn we aR creer maaan |
: . (Ht additional space is needed, use blank paper and list infotmation like the above format and tie with this raportt
: Page 2 ‘ rn

vO a ITEMIZED EXPENDITURE REPORT (form ‘B)
. Date of _.» Person or Organization. . © . . a, :
Expenditure To Whom Expenditure was made - ___ Purpose of Expenditure Amount
MARA. Che Catania. Labi Fee EY, 8/
Med 14 SPT Pet! OBE aT BAZB DS
(H additonal space is needed, use blank paper and list information like the abo ve format and file with this report)
Page 3 .

} 2.21.040: County office candidate and officeholder—Financial reporting requirements-Post general election
summary report: .
_ A. Each county office candidate or office holder shall file a summary report within 30 days after the general election.
B. lL. Each summary report shall include the following information: , .
, a. The net balance of the last summary repoft, if any;
: b, A single figure equal to the total amount of.receipts reported on all interim reports, if any;
_ . c, Asingle figure equal to the total amount of expenditures reported on all interim reports, if any, filed
during the election year;
; d..A detailed listing of each contribution received since the last summary report that has not been reported
in detail on-an interim report; .
; : ‘e. For each nonmonetary contribution, the fair market value of the contribution;
f. A detailed listing of each expenditure made since the last summary report that has not been reported in
detail on an interim report; :
g. For each nonmonetary expenditure, the fair market value of the expenditure; and
h.-A net balance for the year consisting of the net balance-from the last summary report, if any, plus all
receipts minus all expenditures. :
2. For all single contributions of fifty dollars or less, a single aggregate figure may be reported without separate ;
detailed listings, i : ;
a. Two or more contributions from the same source that have an aggregate total of more than fifty dollars
may not be reported in the aggregate, but shall be reported separately. :
3..In preparirig the report, all receipts and expenditures shall be reported as of December 31° of the previous year,
Cc. 1. As used in this’ Subsection C, “account” means ‘an account.in a financial institution: ,
a. That is not described in the above Subsection B; and
b. Into which or from which-a person who, a8 a candidate for an office, other than.a county office for
which the-person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, or as a holder-of an office, other than a county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, deposits a contribution or makes an expenditure.
. 2, Each county office candidate.or officeholder with an account'shall include on thé summary report a contribution
, depositéd-in or an expenditure made from an account -
: a. Since the last financial report filed; or : ; -
b, That has not been reported under.a statute or ordinance that governs the account. ;
D. The summary report shall contain a paragraph signed by an authorized member of the county officé-candidate’s or
officeholder’s personal campaign committee or by the county office candidate or officeholder certifying that, to the best of
the-signer’s knowledge, all receipts and all expenditures haye been reported as of December 31" of previous year and that
there are no bills or obligations outstanding and unpaid except as set forth in that report.
2.21.050: County office candidate and-officcholder—Financial-reporting requirements—Interim report: a
A, Each county office candidate or officcholder shall file an interim/report before five p.m. for-the period ending eight days -
before the regular general election, the report-shall be due seven days before the regular general election date.
B, The interim ‘report shallinclude the following information:
1. a list ofeach contribution of more.than $50 received by the candidate, and the name of the donor;
2, an aggregate total of all contributions of $50 ortess received by the candidate; and
3, alist of each expenditure for political purposes made during the campaign period, and the recipient of each
expenditure. ;
Cc. . 1, For all individual contributions of fifty dollars or less, a single aggregate figure may be reported without
separate detailed listings. . : .
2. Two or more contributions from the same source that have an aggregate total of more than fifty dollars may not
be reported in the aggregate, but shall be reported separately. :
D. 1. As used in this Subsection’D, “account” means an account ina financial institution:
- a, That is not described in the above Subsection B; and
b. Into which or from which a person who, as a candidate for an office, othér than a county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, or as a holder of an office, other than a county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, deposits a contribution or makes an expenditure.
2. Each county office candidate or officeholder with an account shall include on the interim report a contribution
deposited in or an expenditure made from an account that has not been reported under a statute or ordinance that, governs :
the account. : ;
