DEC/05/2018/WED 09:58 AM roreply@imail. org PAX No, P 002
| i FINANCIAL CAMPAIGN REPORT .
The fiianéial catipaign law is i the Cache County Code 2.2] o
_ The law.is also printed ou page four of this report. |,
TO ML bollingo ee Count y Clerk
"Full Name of Candidate — Sinanton Rinndes
Street Address Bosiw Uda.
City Hho Pate, “Ub se SlQ ,
Phone: Iome YE SEATS , Business ee
" "Name of Office ( Ack 0) Covurehiy COU ‘A Lol | a .
Office niswio NOPRRSA a
ee / Candiahity :
megs" TOTALS FROM ” ” TOTALS FOR CUMULATIVE |
mn . .. . «LAST REPORT + THIS REPORT. 5 .. AEPORT
1, Total coil cibuGeas of donors whe wave (| ps " ee ee o..
nore than $40.00... Lo . . ven ; eyo...
(from form “A” on page 2 of this repo) ........$ ——-.__ S 1, Q44,.04 — S 1614.04.
2. Aggregate total of contributions _ ) ' : Ine ) , )
3. Total Gainpiaign expeltses ” ne ts - ef pe . ;
(from form “B" on page 3 of this report) ........58 . 5s LAG OL Ss | { [4 \ ( iT
4. Balance at the end.of this reporting period 2.0.0.0. .5 ace eee LS Oo 5 OD ne .
Care Pristine Company, Bound ul, Uealy

DEC/05/2018/WED 09:58 AM noreply@imail, org PAX No, P, 003
/ ITEMIZED CONTRIBUTION REPORT (form ‘4”) .
; Date Name otContribuior “2 1 1 te «Malling Add‘éss & Zip Code Amount
ue “alanvan thedoe B08 WUAOS Muda PA Bled 45] 00
Clanfie 1a Neko Waa 75239 NECA ast lan Lot
BIB Karting Brows) 83S lpopy laws Lao, NX bas 5Q
foe me Tg fh ome oe an \ 4
Leelee. Shanon Rhode Se UGds: Jha? DERBY KA I,S4
a SS a Sc
$$ Kr ee ee ———————— lee rman
it additonal space is needed, use blank pager andl ist information like the above format and lie with tii repon!

DEC/05/2018/WED 09:58 AM noreply@imail. org PAX No, P, 004
vo 7 ‘JTEMIZED EXPENDITURE REPORT (form ‘By
Date of - Person or Organization ; to, ;
Expenditure To Whom Expenditure was made Purpose of Expenditure Amounl
Ral Soar, Ge Pritt’ Pestoands ARR
Wal AAO Paid Candie 2. RIAA SG
(Og Molisala Swe = ee mossenting C6 OD
q Roviinaols itd uw FoodSat\ Talukheo tah 4
a ls Rodntangz. "Campa tan dod’. "260
oe (additional space 8 Needed, use blank paper and list infomation lhe the above format and ile with this ragon) oo
Dann

DEC/05/2018/WED 09:58 AM noreplyflimail. org FAX No, P, 005
2.21.040; County office candidate and officeholder—Financial reporting requirements-Post general election
summary report: sO
A, Each county office candidate or office holder shall file a summary report within 30 days-aftér the general election,
B, 1, Each summary report shall include the following information: . . ,
‘ a, The net balance of the last summary report, ifany; 7
b. A single figure equal to the total amount of receipts reported on all interim reports, if any;
c. A single figure equal to the total amount of expenditures reported on all interim reports, if any, filed
during the election year; _ SO oo, oo. ;
' "dA detailed listing of each contribution received since the last summary report that has not been reported
in detail on an interim report; aren mS
..' e, For each nonmonetary contribution, the fair market value of the contribution;
fA detailed listing of each expenditure made since the last summary report that has not been reported in
detail on an:interim report; » a : , a .
LF g, For each nonmonetary expenditure, the fair market va)ue of the expenditure; and
":, hb, A net balance for the year consisting of the net balance from the last summary report, if any, plus all
receipts inirius ajl expenditures. oe os _
_*. 2, For all single contributions of fifty dollars or less, a single aggregate figure may be reported without separate :
detailed listings. Le eos ge , tae an
BT a. Two of more contributions from the same source that have an aggregate total of more than fifty dollars
may not be reported in the aggregate, but shall be reported, separately. Bw an
| 3, In preparing the report, all receipts and expenditures shall be reparted as,of December 31" of the previous year.
C. . — 1. As used in this Subsection C, “account” means an account ina financial institution; 4
.. Fa, That is not described ’in the above Subsection B; and es ee a
7" =" b, Into which or from’ Which's person who, as a candidate for, an office, other than a county office for .
which the person fiJes a declaration of candidady or federal ffice, or as a holder of an office, other than a county office for :
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, deposits. contribution or makes an expenditure, oO
'". 2, Each county office candidate or officeholder‘with an account shall include on the summary report a contribution
deposited in or an expenditure made from an account. Lo, . . |
a. Since the last financial report filed; or . |
oo b. That has not been reported under a statute or ordinance that governs the account. ,
D, The summary report shall contain a paragraph signed by an authorized member of the county office candidate's or
‘ officeholder’s personal campaign committee or by the county office candidate or officeliolder certifying that, to the best of
the signer’s knowledge, all receipts and all expenditures have been reported as of December 31" of previous year and that |
’ there are no bills or obligations outstanding and unpaid except as set forth in that report.
2.21.050: County office candidate and officcholder—Financial reporting requirements—Interim report:
A. Each county office candidate or officeholder shall file an interim report before five p.m. for the period ending eight days
‘before the regular general election, the report shall be due seven days before the regular general election date.
B. The interim report shall include the following information; . .
1. a list of each contribution of more than $50 received by the candidate, and the name of the donor;
2, an aggregate total of all contributions of $50 or less received by the candidate; and
3.0 list of each expenditure for political purposes made during the campaign period, and the recipient of each
expenditure.
C, 1, For all individual contributions of fifty dollars or less, a single aggregate figure may be reported without
separate detailed listings.
2. Two or more contributions from the same source that have an aggregate total of more than fifty dollars may not
ne. 08 teported in the agerepate, but shall be reported separately, | eceue sco evs mmmewsanteaummunn nu vanes
D. 1. As used in this Subsection D, “account” means an account in a finanoial institution: “om
a. That is not described in the above Subsection B; and
b. Into which or from which a person who, as a candidate for an office, other than a county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federa) office, or as a bolder of an office, other than a county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, deposits a contribution or makes an expenditure,
2. Each county office candidate or officeholder with an account shall include on the interim report a contribution
deposited in or an expenditure made from an account that has not been reported under a statute or ordinance that, poverns
the account, .
