0C1/30/2018/TUE 07:19 AM noreplyimail. org FAX No. P, 002/005
mi
- FINANCIAL CAMPAIGN REPORT. 3
‘The financial campaign law is ‘id the Cache County Code 2.21 mo 4
_ The law is also printed on page four of this report... eel
TO —_Sitollingoy ee ee County Clerk rat
re ns =
Full Name of Candidate ~ Shanon Rdap Oe ke
Street Address OS Ms AWW UOOQ. se —
Phone: Home URE-BER AVN . Business —
ONiice District 2 iN qpleask en
Political Party_.- LACAV\Q) MAC, , os i. Co, oo,
. pe AGAQ[4 Signed mum Khe .
Candihate .
See TOTALS FROM =” TOTALS FOR "CUMULATIVE |
bes So, . . LAST REPORT + THIS REPORT. = . REPORT. .
L. Teal coitribuliaas of donors who wave” : ums . ss St ;
more than $50.00 |. we . . ne . re
(from form "A* on page 2 of this report)... 0.6... § 2 S (,CW.04_ Ss 1G74,04_
2, Aggregate total of contributions — — : 105.00 ,
3. Tora) campaignexpetises’ ] 1G q ‘0 l a gq q
(from.form “B™ on page 3 of this report) 6.00... 5 5.44 3S LIT, OF
+. Balance atthe ead.ot this reporting period... 02. .S Hepes 8S oO § _O ,
Carr Crinting Company. Bountiful, Utah
Comolorn flecriyn Noob Serpe Nae EQ Page 1

0CT/30/2018/TUE 07:19 AM  noreply@imail, org FAX No, P 003/005
o [TEMIZED CONTRIBUTION REPORT (Form “A”)
Date Name at Contbuor i a : im Mailing AGdiess & Zip Code Amount
Bile Maho Risedog oe AB aN tline( AOR rc Loo.
ue  Dwinwnelredde _—s- BoBwy UAAS Huda PAK CURE E5100)
G 1a Webbe tha ANG BSR NANDA PA Rad aad Sean i331_ ab LOO
, 7 () A\ Vy er y f —
TW essa Liter) IBS AIROE, Laaon Busa4" § ong Ba
A fp all q CMS
ANS Cacho, Domeorars __ 550 Ni Main se80- SAAN SELL. RESO
20%. Shane Rhodes _ SRW UGA S Huda PUR RUBIg HEA 1,54
. a * ‘ , ents tae “ ~ | . i
addiional space Is needed, use blank paper and list Information like the above forma and lie with this repon)
Page 2 , .

001/30/2018/TUE 07:20 AM noreplyf@imail. org PAX No, P, 004/005
co . ITEMIZED EXPENDITURE REPORT (Form ‘By. -
Date of - Person or Organization —. : ae
Expenditure To Whom Expenditure was made Purpose of Expenditure Amount
‘ps SWyidte Oo Pslicting _ Brotwose Cada 4g,aU
lal Soman Ge Pectin’ Pastoands pen Of”
Bist ATOM Bem Nailer Baath: ft
lal — “abv Oil “Fond or ll S10
q _Dpwtingels Digza "- FoodSan Unlidaisteaitny dk 09
WG _Soivars One Pedig — Poshoata of P50
| itadalonal space is needad, us3 blank paper and ist Information Ihe the above format and ile wih this repon)
) Page 3

0CT/30/2018/TVE 07:20 AM  noreply@imail, org PAX No, P, 005/005
2.21.040: County office candidate and officeholder—Financial reporting requirements-Post general election
summary report:
A. Each county office candidate or office holder shall file a summary report within 30 days aftér the general election,
B. J. Each summary report shall include the following information: ° ; . ; \
a. The net balance of the last summary report, if any; ; .
b. A single figure equal to the total amount of receipts reported on all iriterim reports, if any;
c. A single figure equal to the total amount of expenditures reported on all interim reports, if any, filed
during the election year; 4 ut a. Po oe ‘
. "+ d. A detailed listing of each contribution received since the last summary report that has not been reported
in detail on an interim report; ey, 7 :
oe e. For each nonmonetary contribution, the fair market value of the contribution;
., _£ A detailed listing of each expenditure made since the last surmmary report that has not been reported in
detail on an interim report; . ots | ,
ae g. For each nonmonetary expenditure, the fair market value of the expenditure; and ; ,
“0 th. Anet balance for the year consisting of the net balance from the last summary report, if any, plus all
receipts minus all expenditures. © - ae mo ; :
- 2, For all single contributions of fifty dollars or less, a single aggregate figure may be reported without separate . _
Sot a. Two or more contributions from the same source that have an ageregate total of more than fifty dollars
may no} be reporfed inthe aggregate, but shiall bereponed separately, =
. 3, In preparing the report, all receipts and expenditures shall be reported as,of December 31" of the previous year.
C. + 1. Asused in this Subsection C, “account” means an account in a financial institutions | 4
Nb. Into which of from which a person who, as a candidate for. an office, other than @ county office for -
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, or as a holder of an‘office, other than a county office for ”
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, deposits a contribution or makes an expenditure,
"2. Bach county office candidate of officellder'with an account shall include on the summary report a contribution
deposited in or an expenditure made from an account. an . .
. a. Since the last financial report filed; o¢ : .
: b. That has not been reported under a statute or ordinance that governs the account,
D, The summary report shall contain a paragraph signed by an authorized member of the county office candidate's or |
, officeholder’s personal campaign committee or by the county office candidate or officeholder certifying that, to the best of i
the signer’s knowledge, all receipts and all expenditures have been reported as of December 31" of previous year and that
' there are no bills-or obligations outstanding and unpaid except as set forth in that report.
2.21050; County office candidate and officcholder—Financia} reporting requirements—tInterim report:
A. Each county office candidate or officeholder shal] file an interim report before five p.tn, for the period ending eight days
' before the regular general election, the report shall be due seven days before the regular general election date,
B. The interim report shall include the following information:
1. 4 list of each contribution of more than $50 received by the candidate, and the name of the donor:
2, an aggregate total of all contributions of $50 or less received by the candidate; and
3. a list of each expenditure for political purposes made during the campaign period, and the recipient of each
expenditure.
on 1. For all individual contributions of tifty dollars or less, a single aggregate figure may be reported without
separate detajled listings,
2. Two or more contributions from the same source that have an aggregate (otal of more than fifty dollars may nol
. . 08 fepotted jn the aggregate, but shall be reported separately. ov nunmansteure wmmmen es ene ve ou.
D. 1, As used in this Subsection D, “account” means an account in a financial institution:
a. That is not described in the above Subsection B; and
b. Into which or from which a person who, as a candidate for an office, other than a county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, or as. a holder of an office, other than a county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, deposits a contribution or makes an expenditure.
2. Each county office candidate or officehoider with an account shall include on the interim report a contribution
deposited in of an expenditure made fron) an account that has not been reported under a statute or ordinance that, governs
the account. ; .
