The financial campaign law is in the Cache County Code 2.21
The law is also printed on page four of this report.
\ ge Pa -
TO ess Wy. Porad 2 veld wee ne County Clerk
i
Full Name of Candidate Hayy Mt bee ve
ME 3, —_
Street Address ATS //00 EF. A
Fame | ' g 4) A "4 y pres
C yt Heh . Utah $4 $5 >
Phone: Home “f3 a= 563-19 LZ. . Business 2
Name of Office Cathe Lous ! Coendel
; oe
Office District Nott TD jst 6c) ee ree
Political Party D 2 nh COL” ae
pate L2/ AK [222 Signed Wacky. Vigeehar
i ( j Candidate
TOTALS FROM TOTALS FOR CUMULATIVE
. . . LAST REPORT + THIS REPORT = REPORT
i. Total contributions of donors who gave 9”
more than $50.00 , 7 zo
(TreitGrin “Aon Hawes OPUS EPO): wey ea.g See Sy peers reer Ree = S a ae
2. Aygreyate total of contributions
OU SSUL00 GEVESS anne w cna oem baer o cae e eonee agen 2p ee IE a S$ DQ. ce
3. Total campaign expenses ; . ‘ sr
(from form “B™ on page 3 of this report) ........$ — § — S a a
4. Balance at the end of this reporting period ......0S ---------- ee 3 _f mega
5-5-PG °: :
Carr Printing Company, Bountiful, Utah
Complete Election Supply Service Since 1902 Page 1

r . . iL .
; ITEMIZED CONTRIBUTION REPORT (form ‘A’) |
Date Name of-Coritributor “+ | | «= *Mailing‘Address'& Zip Code Amount
(Hf addhitional space ts needed, use blank paper and list information like the above format and file with this report)
Page 2 BF tes ‘

a ITEMIZED EXPENDITURE REPORT (form 'B’)
Date of Person or Organization . :
Expenditure To Whom Expenditure was made Purpose of Expenditure Amount
——S——— = = SS
(Hf additional space Is needed, use blank paper and list information like the above format and file with this report)
Page 3

‘
} 2.21,040: County office candidate and officeholder—Financial reporting requirements-Post general election
summary report: .
A. Each county office candidate or office holder shall file a summary report within 30 days after the general election.
B. 1..Each'summary report shall include the following information: : , . :
. "a, The'net balance of the last summary report, if any; . Be
b. A single figure equal to the total amount of receipts reported on all interim reports, if any;
c. A single figure equal to.the total amount of expenditures reported on all interim reports, if any, filed
during the election year; . ; ; ;
oo d. A detailed listing of each contribution received since the last summary report that has not been reported
in detail‘on an interim teport;— - : a . ;
: ‘¢. For each nonmonetary contribution, the fair market value of the contribution; :
f: A-detailed listing of each expenditure made since the last summary report that has not been reported in
detail on an interim report;
g. For each nonmonetary expenditure, the fair market value of the expenditure; and
h. A net balance for the year consisting of.the net balance from the last summary report, if any, plus all
receipts minus all expenditures. :
2. For all single contributions of.fifty dollars or less, a single aggregate figure may be reported without separate
detailed listings, ~ : : : oo.
a. Two or more contributions from the same.source that have-an aggregate total of more than fifty dollars
may not be reported in-the aggregate, but shall.be reported separately, . :
3, In preparing the-report, all receipts and expenditures shall be reported as of December 31° of the previous year.
C. ‘1, As used in this Subsection’ C, “account” means an account.in a financial. institution: ;
a. That-is not described in the above Subséction’B; and ;
b. Into-which or from which a person who, as a candidate for an office, other than.a county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, or as a holder of.an office, other'than a county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, deposits a contribution or. makes an expenditure.
: 2. Each courity.office candidate. or officeholder with an account shall include on the summary report .a contribution
deposited in or ar‘expenditure made from an account... . : .
— . ‘-a Since the last’finangial report filed; or ; :
b.That.has not been reported under a statute or ordinance that governs the account. :
D. The summary report shall ‘contain a paragraph signed by an authorized member of the county office candidate’ s or
, officeholder’s personal canipaign committee or by the county office candidate-or officeholder certifying that, to the best of
the signér’s knowledge, all receipts and all expenditures have been reported as of December 31" of prévious year and that
there are no bills or obligations outstanding and unpaid except as set forth in that report.

- 2,21.050:. Couity office candidate and officcholder—Financial reporting requirements—Interim report: : .
A-Each county office. candidate or officeholder shall file an interim report before five p.m: for the period ending eight days
before the regular genera! election, the report:shall be due seven days before the regular general election date.

B, The-interim report shall include the following information: :

1. a list of each contribution of more than $50 received by the candidate, and the name of the donor;

2. an aggregate total of all contributions of $50 or less received by the candidate; and

3. a list of each expenditure for political purposes made during the campaign period, and the recipient of each
expenditure, ; . ;
Cc. . 1. For all individual contributions of fifty dollars or less, a single aggregate figure may be reported without
separate detailed listings. ; _ , ‘

2. Two of more contributions from the same source that have an aggregate total of more than fifty dollars may not
be reported in the aggregate, but shall be reported separately. .
D. 1. As used ‘in this Subsection D, “account” means an account in a financial institution:

a, That is not described in the above Subsection B; and .

b. Into which or from. which a person who, as a candidate for an.office, other than a county office for
which the person files ‘a declaration of candidacy or federal office, or as a holder of an office, other than a county office for
which the person files a declaration of catididacy or federal office, deposits a contribution or makes an expenditure.

2. Each county office candidate or officeholder with an account shall include on the interim report a contribution
deposited in or an expenditure made from an account that has not been reported under a statute or ordinance that, governs
the account. : ae
