! ; SCHOOE BOARD CANDIDATES CLERK-OCT2a 202.2554
| Po . he financial campaign law for school board candidates is in the Cache County Code 2.21
| ce The law is also printad on page foul of this report. —_
| > Phone: Horie KBE CGO AATO—  wussiveie ~ ASS -— SPOT UG
- Office CACHE COWUTT SHI TEOKICD a
- 2, Aggregate total of contributions of $50.00 or less § : $ 2 ee § u
ce weet at tee ant we ~Z CO Lo,
4, Balance at the end of this reporting perlad a $ $ ~~ mae §
a tarmne n e sans ne Fonte tte me - CLERC -TG TOSS Pe
: __. Ldo hereby certify that, to thebestof my knowledge, all reevipts and expenditures have. been reported for the
- - period heginning __- PS j Lf G... wes aad ending _- 0. C i, eee
. , ant that thete dre Ao WINS 6 Gbligations ‘outstanding aiid unpaid_except as set forth indhis report, ~
Bad PG Sehrool .
» Gere Printing Company, Bountifal, Garb ao
Cumplaw Eleetion Supply Service Slaee 1902 Papel.

' a*e 7 4
i! : wteis boty a TEMLZED EXPENDITURE REPORT (For BY) Bee pays
: * . “upehot 2 Wee
Date of - -. gergen ar Organization i. as. getty feeds ca aietatn calla ate pu
' { . ne yt eC TE ONE TE GEE” Bde Cha wal 20 FES ta pet Th Gyan fo ET + shh HPD ated F
Expenditure’ '<" -To'WhomExpenditire Wag fnade. "Purpose of expenditiire |. =: Amount -
‘ . . + . wet
: i . WidiivGiaare oad pom 2 ROEM TE ee AE as a at ite BOY —
IE niet pewliee bbe ite oi od eae dog dee ieee polly ah fe?
i 2 - + 2. o : a x
: — Yrks Guiness ae RY TATE PSE TD ie ee TPE PARTS PTT ae eo BA Sea eaaEEEEEEE
a ee Toa a opprypae EAT DES 6 Ey RIES Lae or mc ee cenit EE thes “tech pte eg been, os te tineesy ar etennnnnennrnnntten nee
satel cb cncliwute to td create am oie deli yes take STE Qe opine tH AR
adiale aaug.e sal aedto oortie ch web daldteres, 4 <b Bd ita ates Virb wg dat ane .
“antiiragee = Ameya eineinis il no etralgoi Uiety eee acer diy snebereitioe ie Sh biess aac deo das
ete amnmnee eRe SREY Ren RR A eee ECL ELE TR EATeSOMRaY eaes Ss LISTE Y Res uLLLALt SOS CaAEEY SPP Renee a hy REE EE + ren oo >
- : + ser DeH welt daloueet! Jaelat alae us
sp sset checked Dave ste aebeay etree ES. tiirhiver de Prete yesh hy po ede Wee bp Wier Seen gttttid seated Get! edt spy ceri aay 2?
eames Siete 2oL< tS ESR ee ce are EPR ne eT : ane ee Sac ek ae Aa a OO - raid aia Aenean”
Hed ae v8 jedi duivlinens ailodssd eit: Guetta Gate Angipragheet CUTIE (EA Sela Poor ag Rares raid
. ateb aan bls fevatay aitiroye ode edge aah thread tel Tada soe SEE OUDE > bisa nA TEP
: ; ywihdiigns Lamevtied goof atin tah as cea “Won Ab kebiriot bP igen cA i m
bee A noiegadeer dee chy cada ge oreperrn ts Ona 8 :
regis ven of endian jails i. wecesndod a osc culfig dor Get is yonkishaee bee cand oh g Tan ers > al tadeh: :
wires eg fethccatemGn cls hel Gea obvi atiegay oul dear ca au bare ie tiedb okies cai Lereye aaa at bok e
rt tL LT LE LE I A A NE RAN IP RANE tne peterpan
ee te nnn A Ren nn ee :
ce
ee pee enn tn et nt tate et ann
(If adaltional space is needed, use blank paper and list information iike the above format and file with this report)
Page 3
. . a

‘s .
. ; aa ©. 4TEMIZED EXPENDITURE REPORT (Form ‘B”) So
By Date of . __ _Persen or Organization ae . So
7 Expenditure To Whom Expenditure was made Purpose of Expenditure Amount
' i . =
i} - . + a . .
i i
t i oscnenaeataneeoehaeeiennnieeeaernmemendtiicaanhescenmanaemenee eeemmemememnasamenenmameneeaaeeentamen teen tee ES rt I A NE hr terete, sa
j nt rece
age hos . + oe Fj pte aaa
oe De dt dled Peper owe Pel oe: | legates ocelerb  peh fe ated
rie BAS guess yar eis The SOTUAITRo a DA PAD Ee a RPI PED PE GATE Ses ape TORT np
on - ; ines Rabi nearest wet oo dqniegs itgdeay hen. gatduatiatiae auedaiiei wt bel ang gach
cece tetcrmr nmin utenti tte gett ete .
. I RR att Caer
na a enna SS a enn aR
pn rihanna hierrt etn —eretetitteninineeirttnneee nt ne
panne nT RR et ee ernest ntiintnnnnnr tne tneaennrnentet tenner ter an
rere one ertnten  teP A SRR eeeeteennnenern egy ranean einai ee .
, - (If additional space is needed, use blank paper and list information like the above format and file with this report}
Page 3
, ae

po 221,040: County offiee candidate and officehelder—EFinancial reporting requirements-Post general election : \
smuunary report: . .
' A. Bach county office candidate or office holder shall file a summary report within 30 days after the general election,
Dg RB 1. Hach summary report shall include the following information:
fo . a. Tho net balance of the last summary report, if any;
i b, A single figure equal to the total amount of recoipts reported of all interim reports, if any;
S| c, A single figure equal to the total amount of expenditures reported on all interim reports, if any, filed
i during the election year; ,
; 4 d A detailed listing of each contribution received since the last summary report that has not been reported
bo in dotail on an interim report;
ae ¢, For each nonmonetary contrlbution, ihe fair market value of the contribution;
Dl f. A detailed listing of each expenditure made since the last summary report that has not been reported in ;
4 , detail on an interim report; ; . .
fo G ; g, For each nonmonetary exponditure, the fair market value of the expenditure; and
7 | h, A net balance for the year consisting of the net balance from the last summary report, if any, plus all
1 | receipts minus all expenditures. . : ; .
; 4 2, For all single conitibutions of fifty dollars or less, a single aggregate figure may be reported without separate
; | detailed listings. :
| ; : a, Two or more contributions from the same souice that have ah aggregate total of more than fifty dollars
i may not be reported in the aggregate, but shall be reported sepatately.
ft 3. In preparing the report, ’all receipts and expenditures shall be reported as of Decomber 31” of the provious year.
| ; C 1. As used. in this Subsection C, “account” means an account in a financial institution:
| . a, That is not described iti the above Subsection B; and, - ,
b, Into which or from which a person who, as a candidate for an office, other than a county office for
which the porson files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, or as a holder of an office, other than a county office for
which the person files 4 declaration of candidacy or federal office, deposits a contribution or midkes an expenditure,
2. Hach county office candidate or officeholder with an account shall include on the summary-report a contribution —__
deposited in or an expenditure made from an account ° : .
| | . a, Singe the last financial report filed; or _
: - , That has not been reported under a statute or ordinance that governs the account. oo
| D, The summary report shall contain a patagtaph.signed by an authorized meriber of the county office candidate's or
i officeholder’s personal campaign committee or by the county office candidate or officcholder certifying that, to the best of
the signet’s Imowledge, all:xecelpts and all oxponditures have been reported as-of Decomber 31" of provious year and that
there are no bitls or obligations outstanding and-tnpaid except as set forth in that report.
- 2.21050; County office candidate and officecholder-——Financial reporting requirentonts—Interin report: .
- » A. Hach county office candidate or officebolder shall file an interim report before five pan. for the-period ending eight days ~
before the regular general election, the report shall be due seven days before the regular genoral election date,
- B. The interlin xeport shall include the following information: , , :
La list of each contribution of more than $50 received by the candidate, and the name of the donor;
2, an aggregate total of all contributions of $50 or less received by the candidate; and :
3. a list of each expenditure for political purposes made during the campaign period, and the recipient of cach
expenditure, : _
Cc, 1, For all individual contributions of fifty dollars or less, a single aggregate figure may be reported without
separate detailed listings, . : : .
- 2, Two or more contributions from the same source that have an aggregate total of more than fifty dollars may not
- be reported In the agaregate, but shall be reported separately. ; an
D, 1. As used in this Subsection D, “account” means an account in a financial institution:
~ a, That is not desoribed in the above Subsection B; and ; ;
. b, Into which or from which a person who, as a candidate for an office, other than a county office for
which the porson files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, or as a holder of an office, other than a county office for
which tho person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, deposits a contribution or makes an expenditure,
2. Hach county office candidate or officeholder with an account shall include on the interim report a contribution
. deposited in or an expenditure made from an account that has not been reported under a statute or ordinance that, governs
the account. : .
