a | BEINANCIAL CAMPAIGN'REPORT
The laws aldo printed on page four of this.report. ooo Fa
Po TO, via EES Os NO ce ee Coy Clete, BO
(pu Nanje ob caindilate™ SS Chapa Week Sine
Street Address AS Bib BOY ve@niy  Cigete
: he : aeeae : ea ils oe : i. 2 nae : ¢ oie OM Sage : - “, ; 4 - > oe 7 Le!
eo BatgueatOM E202 3 Siuied eee oe ee la le
(SER ea SE ameter 8 ALAST REPORT (0 Shs THISREPORT. 0 FO SGRERORT
4 Balanee.ar the-end.ofshis-roporting period ponte dd veel” oe : pt SESS Ss AEE SS 4
a ee
Carr Printing Company, Bountiful, Urah . ee, 7 a Oo ae
5. Complete Clectivn Supply Service Since 1902 — . , Paget = ee sO

is * . - .
‘ ' LS
i oa . . . oo - .
, ITEMIZED CONTRIBUTION REPORT (Farm A”)
| Date oe eNarne OF Contributor’ TA es Malling Address '&-Zip Codes Amount.
| aa a ORE SO LE a a ae ,
oo i additional space is needed, use blank paper and list information like the above format and tle with (his rapor)

: . 2 ae shee, 4 wl ; ° 7 '' Pfr piggy UPD Soe ty ene .
Sy les ITEMIZED EXPENDITURE-REPORT (form ‘BY 0 0 eo oo
Expenditure..." To Whom Expenditure was made oy Purposé.ofExpenditure «Amount.
| Oe ob BEA LAU age Ua Ln kan ER te gt we ee penn | Meh b baie? SP |e ES as See Lee nn .
r pT ee SO Ere De Gaye Ee ar CE pe ES SeD Fay Ry
* ve egetnmiee Fre rt hfe tet a ti rae tt fi Acar mere aided enero eer i me eedenren emer irciices meer .
Ope tency a Ta a te eS ee Meta ennnemonea La
ee aannene siege a ek Seneteeneninge ence enan ncn nnnannanetcepemnntet ge tt ate inreen ene
. - (W/ additonal space 1s Needea, sé blaak paper and ist Information like the above format and file with this report) -
an Coot me, Bo - Page 8 - - oe Se .

. _ 4
. } 2.241.040: County office candidate and officeholder—Financial reporting-requlrements-Post general election ..
‘stmmaryrepart; 9° oO : : re -
' A, Each couinty.office candidate or office’holder shall file a summary report within 30 days after.the general election,
Be |, al) Each summary réport-shall include the following information: «0 52 es
. ° .) a"The'net balanée'of the last:summary report ifaiyy ee
: CO, b.‘A:single figure eqtial to the total amouriof receipts reported on all interim reports, ifany; ©
a "ey A.stiigle'Figuiré equal to. the-total amouritof expenditures reported on all interim reports, if any, filed .
diting the election years. 02 a
-  dA detailéd listing of each contribution received since-the last summary: report that has nat been reported .
“in detail onvatijlnterim'feporth se Fe a te Be
° of ASdetailed listing of each expenditure madé'since the last suinmary report that has‘not been réported in |
detail dn an intérimteporty © 2 . re
oO ~ g. For cach nonmonetary expenditure, the fair market value of the expenditure; and ; oO
. _o. . * th, A-net-balance’for-the year consisting of the.né} balancé-trom the last-sutimary réport, Ifany,plusall
receipts nilnus all:éxpenditures, "0
+s 2eFér'all single:contributions of fifty dollars'or less, a single. aggregate figure may be-reported without separate -
oo. detailed’istings, Pate ES Stay Dy :
| _, ray not bo réportedl in, the: aggregate, bilt-shall, be teported separately, 00 v0 sig
"2G. TAAs ised lif this"Subsection C, “account” medins'an agcountin afindticial institution: | -
» 42 ae'Thatisinot described tithe above Subsection Beard: nn
oo 2 2.Bach county office candidate‘or officcholdey-with'an-account shall-inelgde’on the summary reporta contribution 6
| “ " deposited in or'an'expendititre made from ‘angooounit . "7 ee
se 2.954.050: ‘Coriniy office candidiite ahd officeholdet Financial reporting requirements—Interim reports. es
. A, Bach county office candidate or-officeholder shall] file.ai intetiin report before five pim..forthe period-ending eight days
__ befoie the regular: genéral eleciion, the reporbshall be duig seven days before. the regular, general election date, So
. BB, -‘The in(erini report shallinclude;the following informatigny on te
. . * Kaligtof.cach conttibution of moré.than $50 received by the candidate;‘and the ndme of thé donor; -
“75. "3, cst ofeach éxpetiditiire for political purposes nidde during the campalgn period, and the recipient of each .
; expenditure, Fe ne ae
C.-. 1Forall individual cotitributions of fifty:dollars or less, a single aggregate figure may be reported without .
separate detailed listings: 0s Tee PO
2,.Two or more contribtitions from the same source that have an aggregate total of more than fifty dollars may not
be reported in the-aggrégate, but shall be reported separately, © me : oo
D. LAs uséd “ii‘this Subsection D, “account” means an acount ina financial institution: | / :
_ a, Thal is not described inthe above Subsection.By and -
ao |. b Into Which’or from which a persofi who, as a carididate for an office, othér than a county office for Se
; which the person files a‘declarsition of candidacy or federal Office, or asa holder of an office, other than @ county office for ~ ;
; which the person files’s declaration of gadidacy or’ federal office, déposits & contribution or:makes an expenditure, ae
, -2,Ench county office candidate of officéholdér with an account shall includé Gn ‘the. interim féport a-contribution ee
deposited in or an expenditute itiade from an account that has not beén reported tinder a statute or ordinance thal, governs
the account, who mo, cot se ros oo
