: : SCHOOL BOARD CANDIDATE
oo . The financial campaign law for school board candidates is in the Cache County Code 2.21. ,
- “The law is also printed on page four of thisreport = co
| . ao . . Ae eae as ~ . . on - * . i ry . . wee : .
| , JeSE. Bremokieer a
| . TOL. ~ carat a CAN o> a . County Clerk
: -
Office CACHE COUMIT SCftt IMALD !
- 2 Aggregate total of contributions of $50.00 or less $$ le Se a
4, Balance at the end of this reporting period 8 Ss ‘a $ vem . > o
___... 1 do hereby certify that, to.the hest.o may. Knowledge, al] receipts.and expenditures haye.been reported. for the
‘ and ‘that theFe aé fo Bills oF Ghligations tiutstanding iinid unpaid except as set forth inthis report. | oe
: {~ vo a .
ne ne ( ~GUERK -DECRR0PNLa 19168
Soh PG Selioal ; . '
» Gare Printing Company. Bountifil, Uteh col .
Cunsplete Eleetjon Supply Serviee Since L902 Papel.

a , . :
Sofa tse hon oof TEMIZED EXPENDITURE REPORT YFornBy (Te et
Dateof =. Person or Organization oo. os yeti quttorh wily wo vinfadn o -oRee ee ye
Expenditure’ _"“* -To'Whom’ Expenditure Was inade. °° "Purpose of Expenditire 8 Atnount
| Olio LMM CesT oe aye YE gp wp
a
CE eee earned rt et Or Pe fern ey A petra am
ee eee .
nn __
(If additional space is needed, use blank paper and list information like the above format and file with this report)
Page 3

‘4 oo “pee "| fps 7 oy . ete. . te
ey, Sy - oo...” FPEMIZED EXPENDITURE REPORT (Form "B”)
Date of Person or Organization Soo, . SO
Expenditure To Whom Expenditure was made Purpose of Expenditure _.- Amount
* - . — ee
' Byer tas oe Lote
ce ee ne Te ee a cates . ; fits __ _
ee
: - eer on"
perenne nt et en tte green a : Pang ue . ee et . _
eS
ne
nr ee — .
: TT A A I EA Rt A
; (if additional space Is needed, use blank paper and list information like the above format and file with this report)
Page 3 |

“,° 924,040; County office candidate and officeholder—Financlal reporting requirements-Post general election
: summary report:
A. Each county office candidate or office holder shall file a summary report within 30 days after the general election.
B. ° 1, Rach summary report shall include the following information:
a, The net balance of the last summary report, if any;
b, A singlo figure equal to the total amount of receipts reported of all interim reports, if any;
c. A single figure equal to the total amount of expenditures reported on all interim reports, if any, filed
, during the election year; '
d. A detailed listing of each contribution received since the last summary report that has not been reported
i in detail on an interim report; oe .
| ¢, For each nonmonetary contribution, the fair market value of the contribution;
' f. A detailed listing of each expenditure made since the last summary report that has not been reported in
detail on an interim report;
: : g. For each nonmonetary expenditure, the fair market value of the expenditure; and ;
h, A net balance for the year consisting of the net balance from the last summary report, if any, plus all
| receipts minus all expenditures, . ; ; .
: 2, For all single contributions of fifty dollars or less, a single aggregate figure may be reported without separate
detailed listings.
| , a. Two or more contributiotis from the same source that have ah aggregate total of more than fifty dollars
may not be reported in the aggregate, but shall be reported. separately. :
| 3, In preparing the report, ‘all receipts and expenditures shall be reported as of December 31" of the previous year.
C. 1, As used ia this Subsection C, “account” means an account in a finanoial institution:
: a, That is not described in the above Subsection B; and. -
| b, Into which or from which a person who, as a candidate for an office, other than a county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, or as a holder of an office, other than a county office for
| which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, deposits a contribution or makes an expenditure,
7 - 2, Hach county office candidate or officeholder with an account shall include on the summary-report a contribution
deposited in or an expenditure made from an account . :
\ a, Since the last financial report filed; or _
‘ - .”_b, That has not been reported undet a statute or ordinance that governs the account. 7
| D. The summary report shall contain a.patagraph signed by an authorized member of tho county office candidate’s or
officeholder’s personal campaign committee or by the county office candidate or officcholder certifying that, to the best of
the signet’s knowledge, allxeceipts and all expenditures have been reported as of December 31” of previous year and that
there are-no bills or obligations outstanding and unpaid except as set forth in that report.
2.21.050: County office candidate and officeholder-—Financial reporting requiiements—Interim report:
A, Bach county office candidate or officcholder shall file an interim report before five p.m. for the period ending eight days
before the regular general election, the report shall be due seven days before the regular general election dato,
- B, The interim report shall include the following information: ,
1. alist of each contribution of more than $50 received by the candidate, and the name of the donor;
2. an aggregate total of all contributions of $50 or less received by the candidate; and
; 3. alist of cach expenditure for political purposes made during, the campaign period, and the recipient of each ;
expenditure. ; .
C. 1, For all individual contributions of fifty dollars or less, a single aggregate figure may be reported without ;
separate detailed listings, 4 ; :
- 2, Two or mote contributions from the same source that have an aggrogate total of more than fifty dollars may hot
: be reported in the aggregate, but shall be reported separately. . .
D, 1, As used in this Subsection D, “account” means an account in a financial institution:
- a, That is not described in the above Subsection B; and ‘ :
b, Into which or from which a person who, as a candidate for an office, other than a-county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, or as a holder of an office, other than a county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, deposits a contribution or makes an expenditure.
2, Hach county office candidate or officeholder with an account shall include on the interim report a contribution
deposited in or an expenditure made from an account that has not been reported under a statute or ordinance that, governs
the account, : .
