| a ee een a fb ERK-DCT2E20PN 1:28:39
a -FINANCIAL CAMPAIGN REPORT. |
i “The financial canipaign law is it the Cache County Code 2.210 |
, _. . The law.is also printed on page four of this report. ..
TO _ ~tess  “BeadSie\d la! AvreNd. a County Clerk
: *” Full Name of Candidate _Nelaw evs Por Wer Gonne Wo .
Street Address Ht tr), & 82) -S ; Eh Sh eon —_
City e-} \ Us, Utah 84. 33Q
mm GBee Cy wee wee Co . 8 \ eos en vane a im
ae - te nine eae mee awe soe eS , - WA, . ty . ; . i woe . 4 . i” A . =
on Date P23 BIZ PHL... Signed =... - LAMM. CX AMA AEN Za -
pe ; Candidate
. ee ST TTT eon
ce ce tem etn ey ee _ .. «LAST REPORT .b | THIS REPORT. = - REPORT. .
I, Total cdifttibutions of ddiiorS wild pave © > re _ re _ : st
more than $50.00 0000 woo eee ee a ee YON ce .. a
(from form “A” on page 2 of this report) ........5 Den $ _ oO $ OF
2. Averegate total of contributions Oo OS i . a ) -
Of $50.00 or less 022. TI Se © = - rn aoe © —— $ © :
3, Total edmpaigivexpefiges RGR pet ,
(from. form “BY on page 3 of this.report)..... 2... 6 3 lea -O3 . $.. 3 (205, ed . 5 2, 25 OF
4, Balance at the end of this reporting period... .....8 2, lele® , O° a La . $ : Pt, nn) 405, OF 4
Carr Printing Company, Bountiful, Utah ; .
Complete Election Supply Service Since 1902 Page 1 — .

ITEMIZED CONTRIBUTION REPORT (Form A”) mo
Date Name of Coritributor Ti 2 Mailing Address & Zip Code Amount
Mg tha Ha ay yt at “be Tate ee ed : __ _
(lf additional space Is needed, use blank paper and list information like the above format and file with this repory
Page 2 So | i as oo :

_ *° “#5 \<” “FTEMIZED EXPENDITURE REPORT (fo 8)
Date of wav» Person or.Organization. ; .. - m aE, a

Expenditure To Whom Expenditure was made : Purpose of Expenditure _. Amount

GH Sige, Pog Signs 2 39 5
Stato Ga Png gn DY Ab

WH oy tee Bite ot tee ie a ord Brap. ered a oad lee ake thi mo ‘he
(additional space is needed, use blank paper and list information like the above format and file with this report)
Page 3 .

2.21.040: County office candidate and officcholder—Financial reporting requirements-Post general election *
summary report: ~~
A. Each county office candidate or office holder shall file a summary report within 30 days after the general election.
B. 1, Each summary report shall include the following information:
: a. The net balance of the last summary report, if any; .
b. A single figure equal to the total amount of receipts reported on all interim reports, if any;
c. A single figure equal to the total amount of expenditures reported on all interim reports, if any, filed ,
during the election year; .
d. A detailed listing of each contribution received since the last summary report that has not been reported
in detail on an interim report;
e. For each nonmonetary contribution, the fair market value of the contribution; |
_f. A detailed listing of each expenditure made since the last summary report that has not been reported in
detail on an interim report;
g. For each nonmonetary expenditure, the fair market value of the expenditure; and
h, A net balance for the year consisting of the net balance from the last summary report, if any, plus all
receipts minus all expenditures.
' 9. For all single contributions of fifty dollars or less, a single aggregate figure may be reported without separate
detailed listings.
a. Two or more contributions from the same source that have an aggregate total of more than fifty dollars
may not be reported in the aggregate, but shall be reported separately.
3, In preparing the report, all receipts and expenditures shall be reported as of December 3 1" of the previous year.
C. 1. As used in this Subsection C, “account” means an account in a financial institution:
a. That is not described in the above Subsection B; and
b. Into which or from which a person who, as a candidate for an office, other than a county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, or as a holder of an office, other than a county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, deposits a contribution or makes an expenditure.
2. Each county office candidate or officeholder with an account shall include on the summary report a contribution
deposited in or an expenditure made from an account
a. Since the last financial report filed; or
b. That has not been reported under a statute or ordinance that governs the account.
D. The summary report shall contain a paragraph signed by an authorized member of the county office candidate’s or
officeholder’s personal campaign committee or by the county office candidate or officeholder certifying that, to the best of
the signer’s knowledge, all receipts and all expenditures have been reported as of December 31" of previous year and that
there are no bills or obligations outstanding and unpaid except as set forth in that report.
2.21.050: County office candidate and officeholder—Financial reporting requirements—Interim report:
A. Each county office candidate or officeholder shall file an interim report before five p.m. for the period ending eight days
before the regular general election, the report:shall be due seven days before the regular general election date.
B. The interim report shall include the following information:
1. a list of each contribution of more than $50 received by the candidate, and the name of the donor;
2. an aggregate total of all contributions of $50 or less received by the candidate; and .
3. a list of each expenditure for political purposes made during the campaign period, and the recipient of each
expenditure.
Cc. 1. For all individual contributions of fifty dollars or less, a single aggregate figure may be reported. without
separate detailed listings.
2. Two or mote contributions from the same source that have an aggregate total of more than fifty dollars may not
be reported in the aggregate, but shall be reported separately.
D, 1, As used in this Subsection D, “account” means ati account in a financial institution:
a. That is not described in the above Subsection B; and
b. Into which or from which a person who, as a candidate for an office, other than a county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, or as a holder of an office, other than a county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, deposits a contribution or makes an expenditure.
2. Each county office candidate or officeholder with an account shall include on the interim report a contribution
deposited in or an expenditure made from an account that has not been reported under a statute or ordinance that, governs
the account.
