. -SCHOGE BOARD CAnpipATH |. 72
poe . The financial campaign law for school board candidates is in the Cache County Code 2.21, ,
The law is also printed on page four of this report. sues , 7
: a vem Re re CLERK DEG OQPN aig ory
CM DBE 7 10 08 =
| Sear mes a ees neato! + OAKS FROM “TOTALS'FROM © 2“ CUMULATIVE = ~~
LAST REPORT THIS REPORT ~ REPORT
/ 2, Aggregate total of contributions of $50.0) orJess $ _. __ __. § ee §. . 7
3. Total campaign expenses . oo 4 9)
a Cg mete nee ene te tee gsavane ee we tp eit vee nee a lage Ee oT .
4. Balance at the end of this reporting period 8. a 4 So §. . ;
, bdo hereby certify. that, a the } aot nay Knowledge, all recelpts:and expendsfiures hayy been reported for the.
-. + perlod beginning sank ELA, Noel end ending cS a) ae 28 ZO
‘ and-that there dire no BINS ov ating Gutstanding ‘iid unpaid exgept as ket forth in-this reypu, TT
Bed PCE School : ; : ‘
- Garr Printing Company. Bountiful, Goth as :
Complete @leathlon Supply Service Siace L902 Pajie bo.

i oye » : .
Po tap how of TEMIZED EXPENDITURE REPORT tron Biy) 0 ene
Expenditure’ '° -To'WhontExpenelitte a  Purbose of xpenditite 8 Amount
Appl CUTOUT CGT
| ieecSCeReT | aera te le Eabititee bobo oe ae wutidigeet eo tho by alte! bothabs fi} _
| daa tocginete eg apeiedio wiihe magellan. oc binges do ry aenitig delitwitadh a
‘ arab jines sy Lanes Rees ALUN: ee geal are pope dtiges Les old Lad diet ao seat inegs te oe girpac an: dat A,
ussite cegeuiand sees ola Serv feeinisier ope sbyerzs tess sult eat ss Pieces eines by lgcibhy. nv ict “davis tutpaa asi pain ae,
Oita Unive iit lies an tata Upobe AL aediioerhes 4 gan eA a
betastigtigas ais tate desi i ti hac abs eee at a He bdo fps podibaes syflia dbtes ia? oe
aunt eoyp pei cco eT eG alta erty) t wees we wl Biber ne grad aie ope Liberte aa het ot
1
a .
ne reece rent re fp ep __
, Sa nc on ee ee ener ooh nr pr pte NH enue Ne ny A Sh te tl
ee ee
(if adaltional space Is needed, use blank paper and list Information like the above format and file with this report)
; Page 3 ! |

H
|
yw ‘. WTEMIZED EXPENDITURE REPORT (Form °B”) ~ poe co
Date of Person or Organization —_ . . |
Expenditure To Whom Expenditure was made Purpose of Expenditure _.- Amount
: saresecteemeagss Sa ane neeeessh e s o
| : i a A —
| en re rr aot
Lo ak eae Ee
7 ——__
eee et i et ee .
j . tbe ED ae ageytege +
i . . 1 .
vos + toy : t A oe ep pee rset nt
ce . ay . i as . .
en GE ae Ta URC SE OL n ARAG Fo Pterer nlaes CREED nn nae
oe . boas tg : 4 r 4G 1 eto d ay “oe .
fot Saar EL IS DORE EE 2 CSO OE CS RS os are EES LS ALE Pele gt ety iyi
i OO
: |
|
cnr ea RT LE A ILE TT NR LAR fe wept ener ER perermn _- :
.
i 7 i
TH eg TE hey Hee ans fevers : .
(If additional space Is needed, use blank paper and list Information Ike the above format and fle wlth this report)
ian an {
Page 3 |
. i
. i
H

“924.040: County office candidate and officeholdér—Tinancial reporting requiremen(s-Post general election
summary report: - a
A, Hach.county office candidate or office holder shall file a summary report within 30 days after the general election.
, B, 1, Each summary report shall include the following information:
/ a, The net balance of the last summary report, if any; |
b, A single figure equal to the total amount of receipts reported of all interim reports, if any;
¢, A single figure equal to the total amount of expenditures reported on all interim reports, if any, filed
| during the election year; ‘ ' i
d. A detailed listing of each contribution received since the last summary report that has not been reported =
/ in detail on an interim report; -
6, For each nonmonetary contribution, the fair market value of the contribution; |
f A detailed listing of each expenditure mado since the last summary report that has not been reported in
. detail on an interim report; ;
| . : g. For each nonmonetary expenditure, the fair market value of the expenditure; and
h, A not balance for the year consisting of the net balance from the last summary‘report, if any, plus all
| receipts minus all expenditures, . ‘
| 2, For all single contributions of fifty dollars or less, a single aggregate figure may be reported without separate
detailed listings, i
| : a, Two or more contributions from the same source that have ai aggregate total of more than fifty dollars
may not be reported in the aggregate, but shall be reported separately, po
: 3, In preparing the report, all receipts and expenditures shall be reported as of Decomber 31" of the previous year,
| ; (on 1. As used in this Subsection C, “account” means an account in a financial institution: |
, a, That is not described iti the above Subsection B; and, -
b, into which or from which a person who, as a candidate for an office, other than a county office for
| which the porson files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, or as a holder of an office, other, than a county office for
which the person files a, declaration of candidacy or federal office, deposiis a contribution or makes an expenditure,
- 2, Hach county office candidate or officeholder with an account shall include on the summiary-report a contribution —_.
deposited in or an expenditure made from an ascount ' .
i a. Since the last finanolal report filed; or ot
- b, That has not been teported urider a statute or ordinance that goverus the account. 7
: D, The summary report shall contain a paragraph signed by an authorized metnber of the county office candidate’s or :
| officeholder’s personal campaign comtnittee or by the county office oaiididate or officeholder certifying that, to tho best of
the signet*s knowledge, ‘all:receipts and all expenditures have been reported as-of December 31 of previous year and that
there areno bills or obligations outstanding and unpaid except as set forth in that feport,
2.21,050: County office candidate and officeholder—l'imancial reporting requirements —Interim report:
. A, Each county office candidate or officeholder shall file an interim report before five p.m, for the period ending cight days
before the regular general election, the report shall be due seven days before the regular general election date,
- B, The interim report shall include the following information: an
, "La list of each:contribation of more than $50 received by,the candidate, and the name of the donor; 7
: ss: 2, an aggregate total of all contributions of $50 or less received by the candidate; and [-
3, a list of each expenditure for political purposes made during the campaign period, and the recipient of each ;
expenditure, I, | co
Cc, 1, For all individual contributions of fifty dollars or less, a single aggregate figure may be hepotted without
separate detailed listings, . .
: 2, Two or more contributions from the same source that have an aggtegate total of more than fifty dollars may not
: be reported in the aggregaté, but shall be reported separately, : | .
D. L. As used in this Subsection D, “account” means an account ina financial institution; |
- 4, That is not desoribed in the aboye Subsection B; and .
‘ __ b, Into: which or from which a person who, as a candidate for an office, other than, a county office for
which the porson files a declatation of candidacy or federal office, or as a holder of an office, other than a county office for
which the person files a declaration of candidacy or federal office, deposits a contribution or makes|an expenditire,
2, Hach county office candidate or officeholder with an account shall include on the interim report a contribution
; deposited in or an expenditure made from an account that has not been reported under a statute or ofdinance that, governs
the account, : | mo
. |
i i
1 i . |
: 1
: ' |
