                          WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
                                        MEETING AGENDA

                                    Thursday, December 9, 2021
                                             6:00 PM
                                        **AMENDED**

                                  White City Water Improvement District
                                  999 E Galena Drive, White City 84094
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, this meeting will be held at the anchor location and electronically
for members of the staff and/or public that cannot attend due to social distancing or other health
reasons. Seating is limited and may be restricted to the Township Council, staff, and participants.
Also, pursuant to Health Orders, masks may be required, and social distancing maintained. The
general public may attend electronically by following the information noted at the end of this
agenda.
Portions of the meetings may be closed for reasons allowed by statute. Motions relating to any of the items
listed below, including final action, may be taken.

  6:00PM – WORKSHOP
  1. Discussion / Clarification of Agenda Items

  2.   Discussion of Proposed 2022 Consolidated Fee Schedule [Travis Hair, Planner]

  3.   Engineering Update [Shane Ellis, MSD Engineer]

  4.   **Discussion of Preparations for 2022 UT Gen Legislative Session & Lobbyist Retention
       [Paulina Flint, Mayor; Paul Ashton, Attorney]

  5.   Other Staff & Business/Discussion Issues for Future Meetings


                 AFTER A SHORT BREAK (NOT TO EXCEED 10 MINUTES) –
                          ELECTRONIC BUSINESS MEETING

 1.    Welcome and Determine Quorum

 2.    **White City Financial Report [Dave Sanderson, Financial Manager]

 3.    Unified Fire Authority Report [CPT Ken Aldridge]

 4.    Unified Police Department Report [Chief Randy Thomas and/or Officer Jeff Fenton]

 5.    Public Comments -- (Due to Nature of Electronic Meeting, Comments may also be emailed to
       phashton@xmission.com to have them read for the record under this agenda item. Such email
       readings should not take longer than 3 minutes unless approved by the Mayor and should contain
       the sender's name and address.)
  White City Metro Township Council Meeting Agenda
  December 9, 2021

    6.   ACTION ITEMS
         6.1 Discussion and Possible Motion to Consider Approval of the October 7th and October 21st
             Minutes [Nichole Watts, Metro Clerk]

         6.2 Discussion and Possible Motion to Consider Resolution No. 21-12-01 A Resolution of the
             White City Metro Township Approving the Google Fiber License Agreement [Paul Ashton,
             Attorney]

    7.   PUBLIC HEARINGS
         7.1 Public Hearing to Consider Proposed Amendments to the 2021 White City Metro Township
             Budget [Dave Sanderson, Financial Manager]

             ACTION: Approve Resolution No. 21-12-02 A Resolution of the White City Metro
                     Township Council Approving Amendments to the 2021 White City Metro
                     Township Budget

         7.2 Public Hearing to Consider Approving the 2022 White City Metro Township Final Budget
             [Dave Sanderson, Financial Manager]

             ACTION: Approve Resolution No. 21-12-03 A Resolution of the White City Metro
                     Township Council Approving the 2022 White City Metro Township Final
                     Budget

         7.3 Public Hearing to Consider Approving the 2022 Consolidated Fee Schedule [Dave
             Sanderson, Financial Manager]

              ACTION: Approve Resolution No. 21-12-04 A Resolution of the White City Metro
                      Township Council Approving the 2022 Consolidated Fee Schedule

    8.    COUNCIL REPORTS
         8.1 UFA and UFSA – Council Member Allan Perry
         8.2 UPD and SLVLESA – Mayor Paulina Flint
         8.3 South Salt Lake Valley Mosquito Abatement District – Council Member Linda Price
         8.4 Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District – Mayor Paulina Flint
         8.5 Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District – Council Member Phillip Cardenaz
         8.6 SLCO Animal Services – Council Member Scott Little
         8.7 Council of Governments (COG) – Mayor Paulina Flint
    9.   ADJOURN


                              ** Electronic Meeting Participation -- via "GoToMeeting"
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, this White City Metro Township Council Meetings may be subject to
  2|Page                            www.whitecity-ut.org
  White City Metro Township Council Meeting Agenda
  December 9, 2021

social distancing that may limit the number of individuals that can physically attend the meeting. To
ensure public accessibility, and in accordance with State law, White City will use electronic
"GoToMeeting" in combination with the physical meeting. If you want to listen, please use the
information below:


                          White City Metro Township Council Meetings
                                    Thu, Dec 9, 2021 6:00 PM - 9:00 PM (MST)

                     Please join my meeting from your computer, tablet or smartphone.
                                 https://global.gotomeeting.com/join/134094093

                                     You can also dial in using your phone.
                                        United States: +1 (408) 650-3123

                                            Access Code: 134-094-093

              New to GoToMeeting? Get the app now and be ready when your first meeting starts:
                            https://global.gotomeeting.com/install/134094093



     Upon request with three working days’ notice, the MSD for the Metro Township will provide free
    auxiliary aids and services to qualified individuals (including sign language interpreters, alternative
                    formats, etc.). For assistance, please call (385) 468-7130 – TTY 711.

      For Further Information, the website for White City Metro Township is: www.whitecity-ut.org

  Dated this 7th day of December 2021.




  3|Page                              www.whitecity-ut.org
GOVERNMENT AND PUBLIC AFFAIRS
           PROPOSAL
             for the
  WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP




         Foxley & Pignanelli
           December 2021
OBJECTIVES
Maintain a presence with key government officials-elected and appointed- to
ensure a positive understanding of the important services and protections the
White City Metro Township (WCMT) provides to residents.

Monitor legislative and regulatory items and actions that may impact the
operations of WCMT.

Develop appropriate responses to legislation and administrative actions that
impact WCMT.


STRATEGY AND TACTICS
In order to accomplish the objectives detailed above, the following tactics
and activities will continue:

1. Foxley & Pignanelli will maintain, with input and guidance from
   appropriate WCMT representatives a lobbying and government relations
   plan to achieve the objectives and strategies described above. This will
   include, when needed, discussions and meetings with legislators on key
   committees, legislative leadership and other lawmakers. Foxley &
   Pignanelli will also develop a similar strategy for the Executive Branch.

2. Discussions with legislators and other officials to be coordinated by
   Foxley & Pignanelli- with participation by representatives of WCMT.

3. Under the supervision of WCMT, Foxley & Pignanelli will supervise and
   coordinate any media and/or community activities that WCMT and
   Foxley & Pignanelli believe are necessary to complement and support
   our efforts.

4. Foxley & Pignanelli will communicate, as approved by WCMT, with
   special-interest groups, business organizations, and other interested
   parties the necessity of our legislative objectives, and develop common
   interests as appropriate. Foxley & Pignanelli will interact with the Utah
   League of Cities & Towns to ensure that there is coordination and
   support with this effort.

5. Foxley & Pignanelli will assist WCMT in the development of a program
   to maintain long-term relationships with legislators and regulators.
6. Foxley & Pignanelli will work with individuals the WCMT may designate
   in the development of any materials and information that are to be used in
   any discussions with elected and appointed officials.

7. Foxley & Pignanelli and designated members of WCMT, will meet in
   person or by telephone, and on a regular basis to review the progress on
   the achievement of goals and objectives, pertinent legislative activities,
   and other items directly related to the jointly developed strategic plan.

8. Foxley & Pignanelli will monitor all legislation, legislative committees
   and other actions of the Utah State Legislature for items and matters that
   impact WCMT.

9. Foxley & Pignanelli will monitor any administrative actions or
   developments by state and quasigovernmental agencies as determined by
   WCMT.

10. Should WCMT determine a legislative or agency action is detrimental to
  WCMT, Foxley & Pignanelli will provide a government relations and
  public affairs strategy in response and shall implement such at the
  direction of WCMT.


FOXLEY & PIGNANELLI -
GOVERNMENT RELATIONS/PUBLIC AFFAIRS CREDENTIALS
Established in October 1997, Foxley & Pignanelli is the preeminent
government and public affairs firm in Utah. The firm represents a number of
large organizations and businesses with operations throughout the
Intermountain West. Foxley& Pignanelli represents many prominent
international, national and Utah based companies and organizations (a full
listing is attached and available at www.fputah.com).

Foxley & Pignanelli has been awarded several times “Best of State” for
Government Relations. This prestigious award recognized the contributions
the firm has made to the community and the lobbying profession.

The senior principal of the firm, Douglas S. Foxley, is continually
recognized by local media as the leading government relations expert in
Utah. A practicing attorney, Mr. Foxley has been a major presence in Utah
politics and legislative activities since 1982. Foxley is consistently retained
as senior advisor to Utah’s top political campaigns, including Jon Huntsman
for governor (2004, 2008), Sen. Orrin Hatch (2012) and Governor Gary
Herbert (2016)

Frank R. Pignanelli served in Utah State Legislature for ten years, six as
the Minority Leader of the Utah House of Representatives. Also a practicing
attorney, Mr. Pignanelli was active in general litigation until 1993 when he
was hired by Blue Cross Blue Shield of Utah to serve as Vice President and
General Counsel. Mr. Pignanelli is a weekly local columnist for the Deseret
News.

Renae C. Cowley graduated from Utah State University with an
undergraduate degree in Communications and went on to earn her MBA
from Texas A&M. She has served as a valued political consultant and
fundraiser on numerous local and statewide races. She has extensive
experience in running and winning anti-referendum campaigns. In 2018, she
was named one of Utah Business Magazine’s “20 in Their 20s”.

Stephen M. Styler, is a graduate of the University of Utah and the
University of Wyoming College of Law. Steve worked as of-counsel role
with Foxley & Pignanelli since 2015, and joined the team full time in
August of 2019. Steve served as co-Chair of the Utah Governor’s Rural
Partnership Board, Governor’s Economic Council, and currently serves on
the Utah Water Users Association Board.


PROPOSED FEES
For the services described above, Foxley & Pignanelli proposes a rate of
annual compensation of $5,000 from January 1, 2022 through December 31,
2022. Should WCMT determine a legislative, agency or other governmental
action has the potential to be injurious to WCMT, and a focused labor
intensive lobbying effort is needed to defeat or amend such, the parties agree
additional services shall be compensated at a higher rate.

All normal office costs and expenses are included in this fee. Reasonable
meal expenses incurred with the permission of WCMT for meetings with
legislators (i.e. breakfasts, lunches, dinners) shall be reimbursed exclusive of
this fee.
Foxley & Pignanelli is honored to represent the White City Metro Township.
The Metro Township continues to make a positive difference in the
community, and our firm is pleased to be of assistance. Should you have any
questions regarding our proposal, please contact us at your earliest
convenience.


Respectfully submitted,




Frank R. Pignanelli


Foxley & Pignanelli
60 South 600 East Suite #150
Salt Lake City, UT 84102
(801) 355-9188
doug@fputah.com
frank@fputah.com
DATE            THURSDAY                               OCTOBER                          7, 2021

            THE WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL, STATE OF UTAH, MET ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2021, PURSUANT TO ADJOURNMENT ON THURSDAY,
SEPTEMBER 2, 2021, AT THE HOUR OF 6:00 P.M. THE MEETING WAS HELD AT THE WHITE
CITY WATER IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT AT 999 EAST GALENA DRIVE, WHITE CITY, 84094.

COUNCIL MEMBERS
PRESENT:                        ALLAN PERRY 1
                                LINDA PRICE
                                PHILLIP CARDENAZ
                                SCOTT LITTLE
                                PAULINA FLINT, Mayor

OTHERS IN ATTENDANCE: PAUL ASHTON, LEGAL COUNSEL
                      RORI ANDREASON, ADMINISTRATOR
                      SHERRIE SWENSEN, METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK
                       By: NICHOLE WATT, DEPUTY CLERK

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
               Mayor Paulina Flint, Chair, presided.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                                            WORKSHOP

               The Council reviewed the following agenda items:

    Engineering project update.
    Introduction of Shane Ellis, Salt Lake County Public Works and Engineering, that has
     taken the place of Madeline Francisco-Galang.
    Workshop meeting to discuss General Plan.

               The Workshop was closed, and the Business Meeting was opened.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                                       BUSINESS MEETING

Unified Fire Authority Report

                 Captain Ken Aldridge, Unified Fire Authority, stated 779 individuals have taken
the initial hiring exam, 84 advanced to the written interviews and physical testing, and then
background checks will be completed for those top candidates. Several fire stations are
undergoing either construction or demolition.


1 Participated Electronically Via GoToMeetings.com
DATE            THURSDAY                                 OCTOBER                             7, 2021

Construction has started for the Midvale fire station and the Magna fire station has been closed
for demolition. Light the Night event for fallen firefighters was held on October 2, 2021.

              Chief Bruce Cline, Sandy City Fire, reviewed calls for service for the month of
September and last quarter. October is fire prevention month with the focus on being smoke
alarms and detectors and teaching children in school how to react differently to different situations.
The Chili Cook Off will be held at the South Towne Mall and all proceeds will be given to the U of
U burn camp.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Unified Police Department Report

                Officer Jeff Fenton, Unified Police Department, reviewed calls for service for
October. He has been getting reports of a man walking around Big Bear Park, but it is not being
called in at the time of the incident. The zip line and swing have been broken, and the shed was
broken into. He encourages residents to report these incidents to UPD.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Public Comment

                Leonard Peterson stated since Alta View Elementary was redone, he has signs
in the front of his home that he would like removed. He has talked to several Council Members
regarding this issue and would like something to be done.

                Mayor Flint stated she has forwarded the request to have the signs removed to
Salt Lake County Engineering and they will come out and review the situation. She suggested
talking to the other neighbors to see if they want the signs down as well and then e-mail her with
the information.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Action Items

Approval of Minutes

              Council Member Price, seconded by Council Member Little, moved to accept the
minutes of the White City Metro Township Council meetings held on September 2, 2021, with
amendments. The motion passed unanimously.

                                  −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
White City Financial Report
DATE            THURSDAY                               OCTOBER                            7, 2021

               David Sanderson, Financial Manager, stated the Greater Salt Lake Municipal
Services District (MSD) will have the 2022 administrative budget available for review and will hold
a budget hearing. White City has submitted its preliminary administrative budget to the MSD and
will approve the budget in December with a public hearing. The Council will need to review and
possibly approve a budget adjustment for 2021 to include the CARES Act and ARPA fuding.

                Council Member Price, seconded by Council Member Perry, moved to accept the
financial report. The motion passed unanimously.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Resolution 21-10-01 – Issuance of Bonds to Pay for Infrastructure

               Paul Ashton stated the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD) is
working on obtaining bonds to pay for infrastructure within the townships, unincorporated areas
of Salt Lake County, and Brighton. The agreement has been drafted and is being reviewed by the
Salt Lake County District Attorney’s Office for amendments. The Council can either approve the
resolution with the caveat that the mayor will be authorized to sign the agreement with the
amendments when it is finalized, or the decision can be tabled until the final agreement is
completed for the Council to review.

              Council Member Price, seconded by Council Member Perry, moved to defer the
resolution and agreement to a future meeting to allow time for the Council to review the final
agreement. The motion passed unanimously.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Google Fiber Non-Disclosure Agreement & Franchise Agreement

               Paul Ashton stated Google Fiber is requesting approval of a non-disclosure
agreement with White City Metro Township to protect confidential proprietary information and
trade secrets. The non-disclosure agreement must be signed before it will enter into negotiations
for the actual franchise agreement for the installation of Google Fiber. The finalized franchise
agreement will be available to the public for review.

              Council Member Cardenaz, seconded by Council Member Perry, moved to
authorize the mayor to sign the Google Fiber non-disclosure statement. The motion passed
unanimously.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
White City Metro Township Draft General Plan

               Paul Ashton stated the White City Metro Township General Plan has been
reviewed by the Planning Commission and it has made its recommendation and forwarded it to
the Council for its decision.
DATE           THURSDAY                              OCTOBER                            7, 2021

                Erin O’Kelley, Planner, MSD, introduced herself as the new White City Metro
Township Planner, she will help finalize the General Plan and amend ordinances. The Planning
Commission reviewed the General Plan in March and requested a workshop that was held in July.
It received feedback from public hearings and those comments have been addressed in the plan.
There have been discussions on Airbnb’s, short-term rentals, and rezoning the park.

               Council Member Little stated the bulk of what is being reviewed is the removal of
zones that are not applicable and zoning the park as a park.

              Council Member Price asked if each zone change must be a separate ordinance.

               Ms. O’Kelley stated all zoning changes can be made in one document. She asked
the Council to send her any technical changes it has so she can update the plan before the next
meeting.

              Mr. Ashton asked if the Council would like to hold a public hearing to receive
feedback from residents and have a workshop.

               Mr. Little stated he would like to have a workshop to discuss the Councils
feedback, have a public hearing to get the residents input, and then meet as a Council to make
final changes.

              Mr. Ashton stated suggested that the Council hold a workshop on Thursday,
October 21, 2021, at 6:00 pm and the public hearing on Thursday, November 18, 2021, at 5:00
pm.

                                   −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Public Hearing to Consider the White City Metro Township Draft General Plan

              Council Member Price, seconded by Council Member Little, moved to hold the
White City Metro Township General Plan workshop on October 21, 2021, at 6:00 pm, at the White
City Water Improvement District located at 999 E Galena Drive; the White City Metro Township
General Plan public hearing on November 18, 2021, at 7:00 pm, at the Eastmont Middle School
located at 10100 S 1300 E. The motion passed unanimously.

                                   ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Council Member Reports

Unified Fire Authority (UFA) & Unified Fire Service Area (UFSA)

              Nothing to report.

                                   −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Unified Police Department (UPD) & Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area (SLVLESA)
DATE            THURSDAY                                OCTOBER                            7, 2021


             Mayor Flint stated basically every discussion is about how to increase
compensation and where the funding is going to come from.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
South Salt Lake Valley Mosquito Abatement District

               Council Member Price stated Utah has had 668 cases of West Nile Virus with
252 cases being in Salt Lake County. The Board is discussing the installation of a cell tower,
nothing has been finalized. Seasonal help is finished for the year and the regular staff is covering
anything that needs to be addressed until next season.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD)

                Mayor Flint stated a public hearing for the 2022 budget will be held next week,
infrastructure bond discussions continue, and the hiring of a General Manager is in process.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District (WFWRD)

               Council Member Cardenaz stated to ensure WFWRD can retain its drivers, it is
recommending 4.5 percent increase in compensation and a bonus for employees that have hit
their max pay. There will be no fee increases for 2022.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Salt Lake County Animal Services

               Nothing to report.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Council of Governments (COG)

               Nothing to report.

                                    ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

                                    ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

                                    ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
DATE          THURSDAY                          OCTOBER                       7, 2021

              THERE BEING NO FURTHER BUSINESS to come before the Council at this time,
the meeting was adjourned.


                                 ___________________________________________
                                 MAYOR
                                 WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL


SHERRIE SWENSEN
METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK



By ________________________________
       Deputy Clerk


                             ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

                             ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

                             ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
DATE           THURSDAY                               OCTOBER                     21, 2021

            THE WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL, STATE OF UTAH, MET ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2021, PURSUANT TO ADJOURNMENT ON THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 7, 2021, AT THE HOUR OF 6:00 P.M. THE MEETING WAS HELD AT THE WHITE
CITY WATER IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT AT 999 EAST GALENA DRIVE, WHITE CITY, 84094.

COUNCIL MEMBERS
PRESENT:                    ALLAN PERRY
                            LINDA PRICE
                            PHILLIP CARDENAZ
                            SCOTT LITTLE
                            PAULINA FLINT, Mayor

OTHERS IN ATTENDANCE: PAUL ASHTON, LEGAL COUNSEL
                      RORI ANDREASON, ADMINISTRATOR
                      NICHOLE WATT, DEPUTY CLERK

                               ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
              Mayor Paulina Flint, Chair, presided.

                               ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                                       WORKSHOP

General Review of 2021 White City Draft General Plan

              The Council reviewed the 2021 White City Metro Township General Plan and
made the following recommendations:

Acknowledgement

       Page 2 – Acknowledgement

          •   Add Council Member Phillip Cardenaz under the Council list.

Executive Summary

       Page 5 – Executive Summary

          •   Under the “Key Strengths and Challenges” paragraph; remove the last statement
              “and fear of government and planning efforts”.

       Page 6 – Key Recommendations and Goals

          •   Remove the language in paragraph 5, section b, “to allow small, quiet, local
              businesses in future, mixed-use areas”.
DATE          THURSDAY                               OCTOBER                          21, 2021

Chapter 2: Community Engagement

      Page 12 – The Importance of Community Engagement, Meetings

          •   Clarify the number of Steering Committee Members that were appointed (10 vs.
              13).

Chapter 3: Community Background

      Page 21 – “Share Your Thoughts”: Online Comment Boxes, Results

          •   Change the language from “passes” to “transmitted” in the sentence “This
              comment box is accessible throughout the formal public comment process that
              happens after the Steering Committee passes the fully drafted plan to the Planning
              Commission and before the Planning Commission hosts their public hearing to
              consider recommending the plan.”

      Page 30 – Population

          •   The number of households may need to be updated to be consistent throughout
              the document and to conform to the current census data.

          •   Consider changing the term “household” to “parcel” to remain consistent.

Chapter 4: Land Use

      Throughout Chapter 4

          •   Throughout the chapter where it references that the property owner can make
              desired changes, indicate that they must go through the proper administrative and
              legal channels to seek approval. Clarify that property owners need to go through
              the proper procedures.

      Page 38 – Parcel Based Land Use

          •   The parcel count of 1,889 needs to be updated to be consistent throughout the
              document and to conform with current census data.

          •   Consider changing the term “household” to “parcel” to remain consistent.

      Page 40 – What is Zoning?

          •   Remove the last two paragraph starting with “Euclidean zoning is meant to
              promote the public’s health, safety, and welfare. For instance,…” through the last
              sentence, “Many communities that choose form-based or hybrid form-
              based/Euclidean zoning hope to maintain a certain design character.”
DATE       THURSDAY                               OCTOBER                           21, 2021

   Page 42 – Parks, Trails, and Open Space/Page 43 – Access to Parks and Trails

       •   The document references parks that are outside of White City boundaries but does
           not include access to Dimple Dell Park. Include language that references Dimple
           Dell Park.

   Page 44 – Natural Conditions and Resources, Water

       •   Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District does not serve any portion of White City.

       •   Remove “very northernmost and” and start the sentence with “The southernmost
           parcels of White City…”.

   Page 47 – Figure 16: Character Areas

       •   Change the color of the map.

   Page 50 – Potential Changes

       •   Where the language references “ADUs” change it to “IADUs”.

   Page 51 – Future Built Environment Considerations

       •   Confirm that the target height is 35 feet and make the height consistent throughout
           the document.

   Page 55 – Target Gross Density Range

       •   Change the Target Gross Density Range from 8.0 du/acre to 5.0 du/acre.

   Page 56 – Canal Corridor

       •   Possibly change name of the Canal Corridor.

   Page 57

       •   Update the map.

   Page 61

       •   Update the net density.

   Page 64 – Southern Spur Area

       •   In the last paragraph, remove the language that references 66 percent.

   Page 65
DATE        THURSDAY                                OCTOBER                             21, 2021


       •   In the first full sentence “Residents would transition…” change the word from
           “would” to “may”.

   Page 67 – Future Built Environment Considerations

       •   Change the target building height to 35 feet.

   Page 68 – Future Lane Use

       •   Remove the language “Third, properties immediately adjacent to 10600 South are
           in a “transitional” zone”.

       •   Modify the language at the top of the second column, starting at “Why is there a
           “transitional” zone?”, through the end of the second paragraph that starts at “Land
           use changes are a sensitive topic…”.

   Page 69 – Future Land Use Map

       •   In the map key change the term “transitional” to something to be determined later.
           Until a better name is determined the key will be called “10600 S Residential”.

   Page 71 – Land Use Goals

       •   Modify the word “transitional”.

       •   Fix the extra space in the last paragraph, in the sentence that starts
           “Transportation enhancements better connect this area to the rest of White City
           and Dimple Dell Regional Park”.

   Chapter 5: Transportation & Mobility

   Page 75 – Utah Transit Authority (UTA)

       •   Confirm that the citation “UTA, n.d. A” in the first paragraph is correct.

   Page 82 – Street Classifications

       •   Review street classifications to determine that they are correctly designated.

   Page 92 – Accessibility

       •   Remove language, “Takeaway: While White City’s current accessibility is low, it
           would improve by allowing small scale mixed use on 10600 South, improving”.

   Page 95
DATE          THURSDAY                              OCTOBER                             21, 2021

          •   Change “ADU” to “IADU”.

Chapter Six: Lifelong Communities

       Page 98 – Key Recommendations

          •   Remove language under section b “updating land use ordinances to allow small,
              quiet, local businesses in future mixed-use areas.”

       Page 100 – Governance and Services

          •   Paragraph 2, emphasis that these are goals to the extent we can afford.

Meeting Summaries

          •   The pool located in White City Metro Township is incorrectly named as Quincy
              Pool; the correct name is White Towers Swimming Pool. The changes need to be
              made on pages 371, 377, 400, 423, 426, 429, 432, 438, 440, 451, 454, 458, 462,
              465, 468, 471, and 478.

                               ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

                               ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

                               ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
              THERE BEING NO FURTHER BUSINESS to come before the Council at this time,
the meeting was adjourned.


                                    ___________________________________________
                                    MAYOR
                                    WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL


SHERRIE SWENSEN
METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK



By ________________________________
       Deputy Clerk


                               ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
DATE   THURSDAY                OCTOBER   21, 2021

                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                              WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP

RESOLUTION NO.: 21-12-01                                          DATE: December 2, 2021

           A RESOLUTION OF WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
           APPROVING AND AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION OF A LICENSE
           AGREEMENT WITH GOOGLE FIBER


      WHEREAS, the White City Metro Township ("White City") is a Municipality pursuant to
Utah Code §§ 10-2a-401 et seq; and

      WHEREAS White City is governed by a five-member elected Council under Utah Code
Ann.§ 10-3-205.5, which Council elects from its members a Mayor, and


       WHEREAS, White City, by and through its Council, has determined authorizing execution of
a License Agreement with Google Fiber, as set forth in the attached Agreement, Attachment "A", will
benefit the residents of White City and will contribute to the prosperity, well-being, peace, and
comfort of the community.


       NOW THEREFORE IT IS RESOLVED, the White City Metro Township Council hereby
approves, and authorizes the Mayor to sign, the attached License Agreement with Google Fiber
(ATTACHMENT A).

        IT IS FURTHER RESOLVED, the Mayor and City Attorney may make non-material changes
to the Agreement prior to signing if needed to respond to comments and suggestions of the other party to
the Agreement, it being understood and agreed that each party to the Agreement is represented by legal
counsel that may have input to the document.

      APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 2nd day of December, 2021 by the White City Metro
Township Council in White City Metro Township, Salt Lake County, Utah.

                                                    WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP:

                                                   _______________________________________
                                                    PAULINA F. FLINT, MAYOR
                                            APPROVED AS TO FORM:

                                            ____________________________
ATTEST                                      PAUL H. ASHTON
                                            METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY
______________________________
SHERRIE SWENSEN
SALT LAKE COUNTY CLERK
METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER



VOTING BY COUNCIL:
MAYOR FLINT                  ___________
COUNCIL MEMBER PRICE         ___________
COUNCIL MEMBER PERRY         ___________
COUNCIL MEMBER LITTLE        ___________
COUNCIL MEMBER CARDENAZ      ____________
                   NON-EXCLUSIVE LICENSE AGREEMENT BETWEEN
              WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP AND GOOGLE FIBER UTAH LLC
                   FOR THE INSTALLATION OF NETWORK FACILITIES
                          IN THE CITY PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY

This Nonexclusive License Agreement (“Agreement”) is made this ____ day
of_______________, 2021 by and between the White City Metro Township, a Utah municipality
(“City”), and Google Fiber Utah, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, and its subsidiaries,
successors, or assigns (“Licensee”).

                                             RECITALS

A. City has jurisdiction over the use of the public rights-of-way in City in which it now or hereafter
   holds any property interest (“Public ROW”).

B. Licensee desires, and City desires to permit Licensee, to install, maintain, operate, and/or
   control a fiber optic infrastructure network in the Public ROW (“Network”) for the purpose of
   offering communications services, including broadband Internet access service as defined in
   47 C.F.R. § 8.1(b) (“Broadband Internet Services” or “Services”), but excluding
   multichannel video programming services that would be subject to a video services franchise,
   to residents and businesses in City (“Customers”).

C. The Network may consist of equipment and facilities that may include aerial strand; aerial or
   underground fiber optic cables, lines, or strands; underground conduits, vaults, access
   manholes and handholes; electronic equipment; power generators; batteries; pedestals;
   boxes; cabinets; and other similar facilities reasonably needed to provide the Services
   (“Network Facilities”).

D. City is a member of the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District ("MSD"), an
   independent local district. The MSD provides a number of services to the City including
   engineering and public works. Some of those services, by interlocal agreement are provided
   through Salt Lake County. By way of examples, references in this Agreement to the City
   Engineer, therefore, refers to the Engineer retained by the MSD, whether in-house or by
   contract, to serve the City, and City notices to Licensor may come from its representatives in
   the MSD or Salt Lake County.
                                          AGREEMENT

In consideration of the mutual promises made below, City and Licensee agree as follows:

1. Permission to Encroach and Occupy.

   1.1     Permission to Encroach on and Occupy Public ROW. Subject to the conditions set
           forth in this Agreement, City grants Licensee permission to encroach on and occupy
           the Public ROW (the “License”) for the purpose of constructing, installing, repairing,
           maintaining, operating, and if necessary removing the Network and the related
           Network Facilities (the “Work”). This Agreement and the License do not authorize
           Licensee to use any property other than the Public ROW, . Licensee’s use of any
           other City property, including parks, poles and conduits, will be governed under a
           separate Agreement regarding that use.



                                                  1
1.2   Subject to State and Local Law. This Agreement and the License are subject to City’s
      valid authority under State and local laws as they exist now or may be amended from
      time-to-time, and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement. City expressly
      reserves the right to adopt, from time to time, in addition to provisions herein contained,
      such ordinances and rules and regulations as City may deem necessary in the lawful
      exercise of its police power for the protection of City’s property, the Public ROW, and
      the health, safety and welfare of its citizens and their properties. Licensee agrees to
      comply with all such applicable ordinances, rules, and regulations presently in effect,
      and with all such lawful, nondiscriminatory, competitively neutral ordinances rules and
      regulations City may subsequently enact.

1.3   Subject to City’s Right to Use Public ROW. This Agreement and the License are
      subject and subordinate to City’s prior and future and continuing right to use the Public
      ROW, including but not limited to constructing, installing, operating, maintaining,
      repairing, or removing sewers, water pipes, storm drains, gas pipes, utility poles,
      overhead and underground electric lines and related facilities, and other public utility
      and municipal uses.

1.4   Subject to Pre-Existing Property Interests. City’s grant of the License is subject to all
      valid pre-existing easements, restrictions, conditions, covenants, encumbrances,
      claims of title or other property interests that may affect the Public ROW. Licensee will
      obtain at its own cost and expense any permission or rights as may be necessary to
      accommodate such pre-existing property interests.

1.5   No Grant of Property Interest. The License does not grant or convey any property
      interest.

1.6   Non-Exclusive. The License is not exclusive. City expressly reserves the right to grant
      licenses, permits, franchises, privileges or other rights to any other individual,
      corporation, partnership, limited liability company, trust, joint stock company, business
      trust, unincorporated association, joint venture, governmental authority or other entity
      of any nature whatsoever (“Person”), as well as the right in its own name as a
      municipality to use the Public ROW for similar or different purposes allowed Licensee
      under this Agreement.

1.7   Limitations. Licensee shall not permit the use of its Network Facilities in any manner
      that would avoid or seek to avoid the need for a franchise from the City for the business
      of another person. Licensee shall not provide services directly regulated by the Utah
      Public Service Commission (PSC) unless authorized by the PSC.

1.8   Cable System. Licensee shall not operate a cable system as defined in the Cable
      Communications Policy Act of 1984 (47 USCA §521, et seq., as amended) without first
      having obtained a separate cable agreement from the City.

1.9   Wireless Facilities. The Network Facilities will not include any wireless equipment and
      will not be deployed by Licensee to provide “wireless services” or act as a “wireless
      service provider” by way of the placement of wireless facilities in the Public ROW for
      purposes of the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act, codified as Utah Code Ann.
      54-21-101, et seq. effective 1 September 2018, as the same hereafter may be
      amended (the “Small Cell Act”), except pursuant to a separate agreement with City.


                                            2
          The terms “wireless services,” “wireless service provider,” as used above are all as
          defined in the Small Cell Act.

   1.10   Non-Discrimination.      City’s grant of the License will be open, comparable,
          nondiscriminatory, and competitively neutral, and City will at all times treat Licensee
          in a lawful non-discriminatory manner as compared to other non-incumbent providers
          offering facilities-based Broadband Internet Services.

   1.11   Relationship. Nothing herein shall be deemed to create a partnership, joint venture,
          or principal-agent relationship between the parties, and neither party is authorized to,
          nor shall either party act toward third persons or the public in a manner that would
          indicate any such relationship with the other.

2. Licensee’s Obligations.

   2.1    Licensee shall comply with and follow all applicable City ordinances, in all work it
          performs in the Public ROW. Licensee may only deviate from obligations in this
          Subection 2.1 and its subsections to the extent approved in writing by the City
          Engineer or City Mayor.

          2.1.1        Licensee shall obtain all required permits or approvals for construction,
          maintenance and operations, and shall at all times be subject to and comply with all
          applicable laws, statutes, codes, rules, regulations, standards, fee schedules, and
          procedures regarding the construction, operation and maintenance of the Network
          Facilities in the Public ROW, now in force or which, hereafter, may be promulgated
          (including but not limited to applicable zoning, land use, historic preservation
          ordinances, safety standards, and other applicable requirements) and good industry
          practices. City may inspect the manner of such work and require remedies as may be
          necessary to assure compliance. In the event Licensee should fail to comply with the
          terms of any City ordinance, regulation or requirement, City shall give Licensee written
          notice of such non- compliance and the time for correction provided by ordinance or
          as provided herein.

          2.1.2       All work in the Public ROW shall be done in a timely, expeditious and safe
          manner, and in a manner which minimizes the inconvenience to the public or
          individuals, and shall follow the City ordinances and APWA Manual of Standard Plans
          adopted Salt Lake County (sometimes herein called “Standard Specifications.

          2.1.3      Licensee will place its Network Facilities in conformance with the permits,
          plans, and drawings approved by City. All Facilities constructed by Licensee shall be
          located so as to cause minimum interference with and injury to (i) public use of the
          Public ROW; (ii) water mains, storm water infrastructure, street lights, or any use of
          the Public ROW; (iii) trees and other natural features.

          2.1.4.    All public and private property in or adjacent to dedicated easements
          disturbed by Licensee’s construction or excavation activities shall be restored
          promptly by Licensee, at its expense, to substantially its former condition, subject to
          inspection by City and compliance by Licensee with remedial action required by the
          City Engineer or his representative pursuant to said inspection.



                                               3
      2.1.5        Licensee will promptly repair any damage to the Public ROW, City property,
      or private property if such damage is caused by the Work of Licensee, its contractors,
      subcontractors, employees, agents or assigns, and no other person is solely
      responsible for the damage (e.g., where a person other than Licensee fails to
      accurately or timely locate its underground facilities as required by State law).
      Licensee shall promptly notify the affected owner of the damaged property, and shall
      promptly repair the damaged property to substantially its former condition, and in
      accordance with the Standard Specifications, if applicable. Licensee’s obligation under
      this Subection 2.1.5 shall be limited by, and consistent with, any applicable seasonal
      or other restrictions on construction or restoration work. Licensee’s restoration work
      will start promptly but not later than (i) twenty-four (24) hours from City notifying
      Licensee of damage that poses an imminent threat to public health or safety, (ii)
      seventy-two (72) hours from City notifying Licensee of damage that affects roads or
      highways, or (iii) fourteen (14) days from City notifying Licensee of all other types of
      damage. City must notify Licensee of damage under clauses 2.1.4(ii) and (iii) in writing,
      but may notify the Licensee by any means of its choice in respect to 2.4(i).
      Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, if sent by electronic mail, the City’s written
      notice will be effective upon transmittal.

2.2   Licensee’s Sole Cost and Expense. Licensee will perform the Work at its sole cost
      and expense.

2.3   Compliance with Laws. Licensee will comply with all applicable laws and regulations
      when performing the Work and in operating the Network Facilities. Licensee has
      obtained or will obtain any necessary approvals, licenses or permits required by
      federal and State law to provide Broadband Internet Services consistent with the
      provisions of this Agreement.

2.4   Undergrounding. Licensee will use its best efforts to install or relocate its Network
      Facilities underground. If after utilizing such best efforts and if any third-party
      electricity or communications transmission or distribution facilities remain above
      ground, Licensee may install or keep and retain its Network Facilities above ground,
      but only to the same extent that such third-party electricity or communications
      transmission or distribution facilities remain above ground.

2.5   Reasonable Care, Safety, Workmanlike Manner. Licensee will exercise reasonable
      care and shall act in a safe manner when performing the Work and will use
      commonly accepted practices and equipment to minimize the risks of personal injury,
      property damage, soil erosion, and pollution of surface or groundwater. The
      installation, maintenance, renovation, and replacement of Licensee’s facilities in the
      Public ROW shall be performed in a good and workmanlike manner.

2.6   Prohibitions. Except as otherwise provided herein, Network Facilities maintained or
      installed by Licensee within the City will be so located and constructed as not to do
      any of the following acts, unless permitted in writing by the City Engineer or City
      Mayor:

      2.6.1       Interfere with access to or use of any fire hydrant; obscure the vision of or
      interfere with the installation of any traffic-control device or traffic or information sign
      or signal;


                                             4
             2.6.2       Interfere with, block or obscure motor vehicle driver sight distance lines or
             views established by any ordinance or law, including within intersection and driveway
             sight triangles.

             2.6.3      Obscure the light from any street light;

             2.6.4      Cross any water or sewer line except at a 90-degree angle, except in
             accordance with a specific permit for such crossing issued by the agency which
             operates the utility;

             2.6.5 Damage irrigation, landscaping or trees owned or maintained by the City;

             2.6.6 Damage any communications lines owned or maintained by the City, subject to
             City’s compliance with location requirements; and

             2.6.7 Install Network Facilities in the paved sidewalk area unless authorized in
             advance by the City.

2.7          No Nuisance/Graffiti. Licensee will maintain its Network Facilities in good and safe
       condition and shall not allow its Network Facilities to cause a public nuisance. Licensee will
       remove all graffiti from the identified Network Facilities in accordance with requirements
       under City code.

      2.8    Removal and Protection of City Property. Except as required in an Emergency
             Event, no City property shall be removed from the Public ROW, including signage on
             utility poles, without prior permission from an authorized representative of the City.

      2.9    Emergency Repairs. In any emergency event in which Licensee needs to cut or
             excavate a Public ROW, and in which Licensee must act immediately and is unable
             to obtain a permit for excavating in the Public ROW from the City beforehand,
             Licensee shall provide the City with notification of such work as soon as practicable
             by calling the City Engineer at (385) 468-6600, or if after the Department’s business
             hours, by calling such other emergency telephone number provided to Licensee by
             the City, and shall report the emergency and all related information requested by the
             City representative on call. Licensee shall give the City the telephone number of
             Licensee’s representative(s) for contact about work in the Public ROW or in an
             emergency. Licensee shall have a representative available by telephone at all times
             when work is being done in the Public ROW,

      2.10   Identification of Network Facilities. Licensee will identify its Network Facilities using
             an identification method mutually agreed-upon by the parties, or as established by
             standard industry practices and reasonably directed by City if the parties cannot
             mutually agree on an identification method. For underground facilities, the
             identification will be detectable without opening the street or sidewalk.

      2.11   Cooperation in Joint Trench Opportunities. Licensee will cooperate with City in
             identifying ways to minimize the amount of construction in the Public ROW through
             joint trenching, sharing duct banks, and cost sharing with City and third parties
             undertaking similar construction projects involving the installation of underground
             communications facilities. Licensee’s cooperation obligation is subject to any such
             proposed joint trenching, duct sharing, and cost-sharing opportunities being

                                                   5
       sufficiently compatible with Licensee’s plans, as reasonably determined by the
       Licensee. Without limiting the foregoing, (i) the cooperation opportunity would not be
       deemed sufficiently compatible with Licensee’s plan where the opportunity involves
       different areas of the Public ROW than Licensee has permission to occupy under this
       Agreement, or would unreasonably delay or otherwise hinder Licensee’s construction
       plans, and (ii) Licensee is not obligated to cooperate if Licensee enters into a
       commercial cooperation agreement reasonably satisfactory to the Licensee with
       respect to such joint trenching or other cooperation with City or the third-party, as
       applicable. Licensee will make good-faith efforts to enter into any such commercial
       cooperation agreement in connection with fulfilling the foregoing cooperation
       obligation.

2.12   As-Built Drawings and Maps. Licensee will maintain accurate as-built drawings and
       maps of its Network Facilities located in City and will provide them as shapefiles and
       in PDF format to the City subject to applicable confidentiality protections claimed by
       Licensee under the Government Records and Management Act, Chapter 2, Title 63,
       Utah Code Ann., or its successor (“GRAMA”).

2.13   Utility Notification Program. Licensee shall participate in and be a member of the
       State’s utility notification program, whether provided for by statute or otherwise.

2.14   Hazardous Materials. If contaminated or Hazardous Material is discovered within or
       adjacent to the Public ROW, Licensee shall stop work in that affected area, notify the
       City Engineer of the hazardous material immediately, and report accurately and in
       writing the facts of the encounter to the City Engineer. Work in the affected area shall
       not thereafter be resumed except by written order of the City Engineer or City Mayor
       unless and until the material is determined not to be a Hazardous Material or the
       Hazardous Material is remediated. City may choose to remediate the Hazardous
       Material with a separate contractor, or City may contract with Licensee or its
       contractor under terms and conditions mutually agreeable to the contracting parties.
       However, nothing herein shall be construed to obligate City to remediate Hazardous
       Materials encountered by Licensee. Response to, remediation of, and liability for
       Hazardous Materials shall comply with Standard Specifications, and applicable
       federal and Utah law, provided, however, that Licensee shall not be liable for the cost
       of any remediation or other work or any damages or liabilities arising from Hazardous
       Materials unless Licensee, its employees, agents, contractor, or subcontractor, is
       directly responsible for introducing Hazardous Material, or negligently causing the
       release of the Hazardous Material, or is otherwise liable under applicable law. To the
       extent that Licensee is responsible for or elects to perform any remediation or similar
       work regarding Hazardous Substance, before recommencing work within the Public
       ROW, Licensee shall provide the City Engineer with plans and other documentation
       that demonstrates that the contaminated or Hazardous Material has been and will be
       properly handled, and that continued work within the Public ROW poses no threat to
       the environment and/or human health or safety of public or private property. If City
       chooses to perform the remediation with a separate contractor, then City will
       promptly notify Licensee in writing when Licensee’s work may recommence.The term
       “Hazardous Material” shall mean any substance:

       2.14.1 which is flammable, explosive, radioactive, toxic, corrosive, infectious,
       carcinogenic, mutagenic or otherwise hazardous, and is or becomes regulated by
       any governmental authority, agency, department, commission, board or

                                            6
       instrumentality of the United States, the State of Utah or any political subdivision
       thereof; or

       2.14.2 which contains asbestos, organic compounds known as polychlorinated
       biphenyls, chemicals known to cause cancer or reproductive toxicity or petroleum,
       including crude oil or any fraction thereof; or

       2.14.3 which is or becomes defined as a pollutant, contaminant, hazardous waste,
       hazardous substance, hazardous material or toxic substance under the Resource
       Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901-6987; the Comprehensive
       Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 9601-9657;
       the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, 49 U.S.C. §§ 1801-1812; the Clean
       Water Act, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251-1387; the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401-7642; the
       Toxic Substances Control Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601- 2655; the Safe Drinking Water
       Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 300f - 300j; the Emergency Planning and Community Right to
       Know Act of 1986, 42 U.S.C. §§ 11001-11050; under title 19, chapter 6 of the Utah
       Code, as any of the same have been or from time to time may be amended; and any
       similar federal, State and local laws, statutes, ordinances, codes, rules, regulations,
       orders or decrees relating to environmental conditions, industrial hygiene or
       Hazardous Materials on the Public Ways, including all interpretations, policies,
       guidelines and/or directives of the various governmental authorities responsible for
       administering any of the foregoing, now in effect or hereafter adopted, published
       and/or promulgated; or

       2.14.4 the presence of which in the Public ROW requires investigation or
       remediation under any federal, State or local statute, regulation, ordinance, order,
       action, policy, or common law.

2.15   Network Design and Scope. Nothing in this Agreement requires Licensee to build to
       all areas of City, and Licensee retains the discretion to determine the scope, location,
       and timing of the design and construction of the Network. Licensee, at its sole
       discretion, may determine separately defined geographic areas with City where its
       Network Facilities will be deployed, and City will be available to consult with Licensee
       regarding the boundaries of City’s recognized neighborhood associations and City’s
       goals of equity and inclusion.

2.16   Access to Services. Licensee shall not deny service or access, or otherwise
       discriminate on the availability, rates, terms, or conditions of Broadband Internet
       Services provided to residential subscribers on the basis of race, color, creed,
       religion, ancestry, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, disability, age, familial
       status, marital status, or status with regard to public assistance. Licensee shall
       comply at all times with all applicable Federal, state, and local laws and regulations
       relating to nondiscrimination. Licensee shall not deny or discriminate against any
       group of actual or potential residential subscribers in City on access to or the rates,
       terms, and conditions of Broadband Internet Services because of the income level or
       other demographics of the local area in which such group may be located.

2.17   Public Benefits. Licensee agrees to use good-faith efforts to consult with City on
       developing initiatives designed to benefit the public, which may include increasing
       access to Broadband Internet Services, improving digital literacy, and bridging the
       digital divide.

                                             7
   2.18   City Uses of Poles and Overhead Structures. City will have the right, without cost, to
          use all above-ground poles owned solely by Licensee within the City for fire alarms,
          police signal systems, or any lawful public use; provided, however, any said uses by
          City shall be for activities owned, operated or used by City for any public purposes,
          and shall not include the provision of communications service to non-governmental
          third parties or otherwise in a manner which would commercially compete with
          Licensee’s operations and services and provided that such City use does not
          substantially interfere with Licensee’s operations and services.

   2.19   Limitations on Use Rights. Nothing in this Agreement will be construed to require
          Licensee to increase pole capacity, alter the manner in which Licensee attaches
          equipment to the poles, or alter the manner in which Licensee operates and
          maintains its equipment. Such City attachments shall be installed and maintained in
          accordance with the reasonable requirements of Licensee and the then-current
          National Electrical Safety Code. City attachments shall be attached or installed only
          after written approval by Licensee, which approval will be processed in a timely
          manner and will not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed.

   2.20   Maintenance of City Facilities. City’s use rights shall also be subject to the parties
          reaching a written agreement regarding the maintenance of the City attachments.

3. Relocation, Removal, Expiration, Revocation, and Inspection.

   3.1    Emergency Removal or Relocation by City. In the event of a public emergency that
          creates an imminent threat to the health, safety, or property of City its residents or
          businesses, City may remove or relocate the applicable portions of the Network
          Facilities without prior notice to Licensee. City will, however, make best efforts to
          provide prior notice to Licensee before making an emergency removal or relocation.
          In any event, City will promptly provide to Licensee a written description of any
          emergency removals or relocations of Licensee’s Network Facilities. Licensee will
          reimburse City for its actual, reasonable, and documented costs or expenses incurred
          for any such work performed by City. Licensee’s obligation to reimburse City under
          this subsection is separate from Licensee’s obligation to pay the License Fee (as
          defined below).

   3.2    Removal of Abandoned Network Facilities. If Licensee abandons or fails to use any
          portions of its Network Facilities for one year or more (“Abandoned Network
          Facilities”), Licensee will notify City and will remove any above-ground facilities at its
          own expense at City’s request within a commercially reasonable period of time. City
          and Licensee will discuss whether underground facilities should be abandoned in
          place or transferred to City, at City’s option. Abandoned Network Facilities do not
          include Network Facilities intended for emergency use, redundant Network Facilities,
          or Network Facilities intended to meet future demand or capacity needs.

   3.3    Relocation to Accommodate Governmental Purposes. If Licensee’s existing Network
          Facilities would interfere with City’s planned use of the Public ROW or other City
          property for a legitimate governmental purpose, such as construction, (including
          widening or relocation of all or part of a Public ROW), installation, repair, maintenance,
          or operation of water, sewer, or storm drain line/facilities, public roads or curb, gutter
          and sidewalk, parks, and recreational facilities, Licensee will, upon written notice from

                                                8
              City, relocate its Network Facilities at Licensee’s sole cost and expense to such other
              location or locations in the Public ROW as may be mutually agreed by the parties,
              taking into account the needs of the City’s governmental purpose and Licensee’s
              interest in maintaining the integrity and stability of its Network. Licensee will relocate
              its Network Facilities within a commercially reasonable period of time agreed to by the
              parties, taking into account the urgency of the need for relocation, the difficulty of the
              relocation, and other relevant facts and circumstances, except that City may not
              require Licensee to relocate or remove its Network Facilities with less than one
              hundred and eighty (180) days’ notice.

     3.4      Relocation to Accommodate Commercial Purposes. If Licensee’s existing Network
              Facilities would interfere with City’s planned use of the Public ROW or City property
              for a commercial purpose, or with a third-party’s use of the Public ROW, Licensee will
              not be required to relocate its Network Facilities unless City or the third party enters
              into an agreement with Licensee under which City or the third party would, at a
              minimum: (a) identify and arrange for a new location for Licensee’s Network Facilities
              that is acceptable to Licensee, (b) agree to a commercially reasonable period of time
              for the relocation, which in no event will be less than one hundred and eighty (180)
              days; and (c) agree to reimburse all of Licensee’s reasonable direct costs, expenses,
              and losses associated with the requested relocation.

     3.5      Post-Removal Restoration of Public ROW. When removal or relocation is required
              under this Agreement, Licensee will, after the removal or relocation of the Network
              Facilities, at its own cost (except to the extent subject to reimbursement pursuant to
              Subsection 3.4 hereof), repair and return the Public ROW in which the facilities were
              located to a safe and satisfactory condition in accordance with the construction-related
              conditions and specifications as established by City. Before proceeding with removal
              or relocation work, Licensee will obtain from the City a street excavation permit and
              follow the City’s ordinances and other applicable law.

     3.6      Rights and Duties of Licensee Upon Expiration or Revocation. Upon expiration of the
              license granted under this Agreement, whether by lapse of time, by agreement
              between Licensee and City, or by revocation or forfeiture as provided herein, Licensee
              shall remove from the Public ROW any and all of its Network Facilities and restore the
              Public ROW to as good condition as the same was before the removal was effected,
              ordinary wear and tear and damages not caused by Licensee excepted. In the
              alternative, Licensee may, with the written approval of the City Engineer or City Mayor,
              abandon some or all of the Network Facilities in place.

     3.7      Inspection by City. Installation of the Network Facilities shall be subject to inspection
              by City as provided in the City’s municipal code.

4.         Contractors and Subcontractors.

     4.1      Use of Contractors and Subcontractors. Licensee may retain contractors and
              subcontractors to perform the Work on Licensee’s behalf.

     4.2      Contractors to be Licensed. Licensee’s contractors and subcontractors used for the
              Work will be properly licensed under applicable law.



                                                    9
   4.3   Authorized Individuals. Licensee’s contractors and subcontractors may submit
         individual permit applications to City on Licensee’s behalf, so long as the permit
         applications are signed by individuals that Licensee has authorized to act on its behalf
         via a letter of authorization provided to City in the form attached as Exhibit “A”
         (“Authorized Individuals”). City will accept permit applications under this Agreement
         submitted and signed by Authorized Individuals, and will treat those applications as if
         they had been submitted by Licensee under this Agreement.

5. Compensation for Use of Public ROW.

   5.1   Licensee is not subject at this time to the collection and proper deposit of the Municipal
         Telecommunications License Tax with the Utah State Tax Commission pursuant to
         the Municipal Telecommunications License Tax Act (Utah Code Ann. 10-1-401 to 10-
         1-410), except with respect to any voice-over-internet-protocol (“VoIP”) services it
         offers.

   5.2   Licensee will pay City a fee (“License Fee”) to compensate City for Licensee’s use
         and occupancy of Public ROW pursuant to the License.             Licensee and City
         acknowledge and agree that the License Fee provides fair and reasonable
         compensation for Licensee’s use and occupancy of Public ROW and other City
         property as authorized. The License Fee will begin accruing on the Effective Date (as
         defined below) and will be calculated as follows:

   5.3   License Fee. Licensee will pay City two percent (2%) (the “Revenue Percentage”) of
         Gross Revenues for a calendar quarter, remitted on a quarterly basis, commencing
         upon the first date on which Licensee receives any Gross Revenues (as defined
         below). Such payments are due forty-five (45) days after the end of the calendar
         quarter.

         5.3.1       As used herein, “Gross Revenues” means all consideration of any kind or
         nature, including without limitation, cash, credits, property, and in-kind contributions
         (services or goods) received by Licensee from Customers for Broadband Internet
         Services that are provided to Customers through Network Facilities located at least in
         part in Public ROW.

         5.3.2           Gross Revenues do not include:

                 (i)        any revenue not actually received, even if billed, such as bad debt;

                 (ii)       refunds, rebates, or discounts made to Customers or City;

                 (iii)      revenue received from the sale of Broadband Internet Services for
                            resale in which the purchaser is required to collect and remit similar fees
                            from the purchaser’s customer;

                 (iv)       any forgone revenue from Licensee’s provision of Broadband Internet
                            Services to Customers at no charge if required by state law;

                 (v)        any tax of general applicability imposed upon Licensee or its Customers
                            by City or by any state, federal, or any other governmental entity, and
                            required to be collected by Licensee and remitted to the taxing entity

                                                  10
                    (including but not limited to sales and use tax, gross receipts tax, excise
                    tax, utility users tax, public service tax, communications taxes, and fees
                    not imposed by this Agreement); and

            (vi)    any forgone revenue from Licensee’s provision, in Licensee’s discretion
                    or otherwise, of free or reduced cost Broadband Internet Services to any
                    Person; provided, however, that any forgone revenue which Licensee
                    chooses not to receive in exchange for trades, barters, services, or other
                    items of value will be included in Gross Revenues.

5.4   Report of License Fee Payment. Upon written request of the City, the Licensee shall
      prepare and deliver to the City, a report summarizing Licensee’s calculations
      containing the number of customers within the City, the total amount collected, the
      amount of the License Fee collected, and the methodology for making such
      calculations.

5.5   Pass Through. Licensee may identify and collect, as a separate item on the regular
      bill of any customer whose Broadband Internet Services are provided by Network
      Facilities located at least in part in the Public ROW, the License Fee due from that
      customer.

5.6   Audit. During the term of this Agreement and in the two-year period following its
      termination, City may examine the business records of Licensee as permitted under
      state or local law, but in any event only during business hours and following not less
      than ten days’ notice, to the extent reasonably necessary to ensure compliance with
      the payment terms of this Agreement (“Business Records”). Licensee shall also
      produce Business Records to the City upon 30 days’ written notice from the City in a
      form reasonably requested by it, records in addition to the report referred to in
      Subsection 5.4 above, the reasonable cost of which the City shall bear, subject to the
      provisions of this Subsection. Licensee will keep all business records of invoices,
      Gross Revenues, and payments of gross receipts for at least two (2) years. City may,
      in the event of a dispute concerning compensation under this Section 5 and its
      subsections, bring an action in a court of competent jurisdiction. Unless otherwise
      agreed in writing by Licensee, the fees and expenses of performing such examination
      and verification, and the reasonable costs of providing records to the City, shall be
      borne by the City, subject to the succeeding sentences. If such examination reveals
      an underpayment by Licensee of more than five (5) percent for any quarter examined,
      Licensee shall pay the City the amount of such underpayment, and shall reimburse
      the City for the reasonable costs incurred by the City performing the examination(s),
      and of producing the records requested by the City.

5.7   Government Records Access and Management Act. City is subject to the
      requirements of GRAMA. All materials submitted to City by Licensee pursuant to this
      Agreement are subject to disclosure unless such materials are exempt from disclosure
      under GRAMA. The burden of claiming an exemption from disclosure shall rest solely
      with Licensee, and Licensee shall comply with the requirements of GRAMA in
      asserting any such exemption. Such materials may be classified as “protected” by
      City under GRAMA. City shall make reasonable efforts to notify Licensee of any
      requests made for disclosure of documents submitted under a claim of confidentiality.
      Licensee may, at Licensee’s sole expense, take any appropriate actions to prevent
      disclosure of such material.

                                          11
   5.8    Interest on Late Payments. Any payments that are due and payable under this
          Agreement that are not received within fifteen (15) days from the due date will be
          assessed interest compounded at the rate of 18% per annum from the due date. All
          sums paid with interest within thirty (30) days of the due date shall not constitute a
          material breach under Subsection 10.1.

   5.9    Change in Law.

          5.9.1         Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, in the event of a change
          in local, state, or federal law that (i) prohibits collection of any right-of-way-access fee
          from any provider of video programming or communications services, including
          Broadband Internet Services or (ii) reduces the percentage of revenue on which the
          right-of-way-access fee paid by any provider of video programming or communications
          services is based to a percentage that is lower than the Revenue Percentage, then
          Licensee will have no obligation to pay the License Fee or to pay a Licensee Fee
          based on the Revenue Percentage, as the case may be. In the case of a reduction in
          the percentage of revenue on which a right-of-way-access fee may be based, the
          Revenue Percentage will be commensurately reduced.

          5.9.2      Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, in the event of a change
          in law that preempts this Agreement and requires or allows an increase to the
          percentage of Gross Revenue above the Revenue Percentage which the City may
          charge a provider of communications services as a license fee for use of the Public
          ROW, then upon the legally required act by the City’s governing body, Licensee shall
          upon 60 days’ prior written notice from the City pay the City such license fee
          determined by the governing body to apply to all providers of Broadband Internet
          Services in the City, not to exceed the maximum allowed by law.

6. Indemnification.

          6.1 Indemnification. Licensee hereby agrees to indemnify, defend and hold harmless
          the City, its officials, officers, employees and insurance carriers, individually and
          collectively from all losses, claims, suits, judgments, demands, expenses, subrogation,
          reasonable attorney’s fees, costs or actions of any kind and nature resulting from
          personal or bodily injury to any person, including employees of Licensee or of any
          contractor or subcontractor employed by Licensee (including bodily injury and death)
          or damages to any property, arising directly out of the negligent acts or omissions of
          Licensee, its contractors, subcontractors, officers, agents and employees while
          exercising any of the rights or privileges granted by this Agreement, except for any
          loss, injury, or personal or property damage caused by the negligence or willful
          misconduct of the City, its officers, agents, and employees. This Subsection 6.1 shall
          survive the termination of this Agreement.

          6.2 City Participation in Litigation. The Licensee shall immediately notify the City of
          any litigation which would affect the City’s rights under this Agreement. City shall
          promptly notify Licensee in writing of any claim or suit for which City seeks
          indemnification and defense by Licensee and request that Licensee indemnify the
          City. Licensee will give written notice to City of its acceptance of the defense and
          shall be entitled to engage legal counsel of its own choosing. City’s failure to so
          notify and request indemnification shall not relieve Licensee of any liability that

                                                12
           Licensee might have, except to the extent that such failure prejudices Licensee’s
           ability to defend such claim or suit. In the event that Licensee refuses the tender of
           defense in any suit or any claim, as required under the indemnification provisions
           contained herein, and that refusal is subsequently determined by a court having
           appropriate jurisdiction (or such other tribunal that the Parties agree to decide the
           matter), to have been a wrongful refusal on the part of Licensee, Licensee shall pay
           all of City’s reasonable costs for defense of the action, including all reasonable
           expert witness fees, costs, and attorneys’ fees, and including costs and fees incurred
           in recovering under this indemnification provision. City shall have the right, at City’s
           sole cost and expense, to employ separate counsel on behalf of City for City to bring
           or pursue any counterclaims or interpleader action, equitable relief, restraining order,
           or injunction. Each Party agrees to cooperate and to cause its employees and agents
           to cooperate with the other Party in the defense of any such claim, and the relevant
           records of each Party shall be available to the other party with respect to any such
           defense. No compromise or settlement shall be approved or executed without the
           prior written consent of City and Licensee, if the compromise or settlement involves
           the rights of the other party. If the City refuses a compromise or settlement that has
           been approved by Licensee, City shall, at its sole cost and expense, take over the
           defense and Licensee shall not be responsible for, nor obligated to indemnify City,
           against any cost or liability in excess of such refused compromise or settlement.

7. Limitation of Liability

       NEITHER PARTY WILL BE LIABLE FOR ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL,
       CONSEQUENTIAL, EXEMPLARY OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES IN CONNECTION WITH
       THIS AGREEMENT. THE PARTIES ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THIS LIMITATION WILL
       BE SUBJECT TO AND MAY BE LIMITED BY APPLICABLE STATE LAW.

8.   Performance Bond.

     Licensee will, promptly after the Effective Date, provide City with a performance bond in the
     amount of Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000) naming City and MSD as obligees and
     guaranteeing Licensee's faithful performance of its obligations under this Agreement. The
     performance bond will remain in full force during the Term of this Agreement. The
     requirement of a performance bond will not prevent the City from other legal remedies it
     may have against the Licensee if it defaults in any of its obligations under this Agreement,
     including filing a lawsuit.

9.     Insurance.

     Licensee will carry and maintain Commercial General Liability (CGL) insurance, with policy
     limits not less than $2,000,000 in aggregate and $2,000,000 for each occurrence covering
     bodily injury and property damage with the following features: (a) CGL primary insurance
     endorsement; and (b) CGL policy will include an endorsement which names City, the MSD,
     their employees, and officers as additional insureds. Licensee shall increase the
     commercial general liability limits contained herein to cover any increase in the City's and
     MSD's potential liability under the Utah Governmental Immunity Act (Utah Code Ann. §
     63G-7-101, et. seq.) or successor provision. Upon written request, the Licensee will
     provide a Certificate of Insurance showing evidence of the coverage required by this
     subsection.


                                               13
10.      Effective Date and Term.

         This Agreement is effective for fifteen (15) years beginning on the date the last party to
         sign executes this Agreement ("Effective Date"). The License will expire automatically on
         the fifteenth anniversary of the Effective Date ("Original Term"), unless Licensee
         provides written notice of its intent to renew to City at least six (6) months prior to
         expiration and City does not object after thirty (30) days. The renewal term will be for five
         (5) years, and the same renewal process may be used for successive 5-year terms..

11.     Termination.

      11.1 Termination by City. City may terminate this Agreement if Licensee is in material breach
            of the Agreement, provided that City must first provide Licensee written notice of the
            breach and thirty (30) days to cure, unless the cure cannot reasonably be
            accomplished in that time period, in which case Licensee must commence its efforts
            to cure within that time period and the cure period shall continue as long as such
            diligent efforts continue. No termination under this paragraph will be effective until the
            relevant cure period has expired.

      11.2   Termination by Licensee. Licensee may terminate this Agreement for convenience
             upon one hundred eighty (180) days’ written notice to City.

12 Assignment. Except as set forth below, neither party may assign or transfer its rights or
obligations under this Agreement, in whole or part, to a third party, without the written consent of
the other party. Any agreed-upon assignee will take the place of the assigning party, and the
assigning party will be released from all of its rights and obligations upon such assignment.

      12.1   Notwithstanding the foregoing, Licensee may at any time, on written notice to City,
             assign this Agreement and/or any or all of its rights and obligations under this
             Agreement:

             12.1.1 to any Affiliate (as defined below) of Licensee;

             12.1.2 to any purchaser of all or substantially all of Licensee’s Network Facilities in
             City if Licensee determines after a reasonable investigation that the purchaser has the
             resources and ability to fulfill the obligations of this                   Agreement;

             12.1.3 subject to City’s consent, which will not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned,
             or delayed, Licensee may assign to any successor in interest of Licensee’s business
             operations in City in connection with any merger, acquisition, or similar transaction if
             Licensee determines after a reasonable investigation that the successor in interest has
             the resources and ability to fulfill the obligations of this Agreement.

      12.2   Following any assignment of this Agreement to an Affiliate, Licensee will remain
             responsible for such Affiliate’s performance under the terms of this Agreement. For
             purposes of this Agreement, (i) “Affiliate” means any Person that now or in the future,
             directly or indirectly controls, is controlled with or by, or is under common control with
             Licensee; and (ii) “control” means, with respect to: (a) a U.S. corporation, the
             ownership, directly or indirectly, of fifty percent (50%) or more of the voting power to
             elect directors thereof, or (b) a non-U.S. corporation, if the voting power to elect
             directors thereof is less than fifty percent (50%), the maximum amount allowed by

                                                  14
             applicable law; and (c) any other Person, fifty percent (50%) or more ownership
             interest in said Person, or the power to direct the management of such Person.

13.      Notice.

      All notices related to this Agreement will be in writing and sent, if to Licensee to the email
      addresses set forth below, and if to City to the following addresses: WCMT, 10467 So.
      Carnation Drive, White City, UT 84094, General Manager, MSD, 2001 South State, Salt Lake
      City, UT 84190, with email copies to paulina.flint@whitecity-ut-.org and
      phashton@xmisson.com. Notices are effective (a) when delivered in person, (b) upon
      confirmation of a receipt when transmitted by facsimile transmission or by electronic mail, (c)
      on the next business day if transmitted by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid (with
      confirmation of delivery), (d) on the next business day if transmitted by overnight courier (with
      confirmation of delivery), or (e) three (3) days after the date of mailing, whichever is earlier.

      Licensee’s e-mail address for notice is googlefibernotices@google.com, with a copy to legal-
      notices@google.com.

14.      Meet and Discuss. Notwithstanding any other provision contained herein, before City or
Licensee brings an action or claim before any court or regulatory body arising out of a duty or
right arising under this Agreement, Licensee and City shall first make a good-faith effort to resolve
their dispute by discussion.

15.      General Provisions. This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of Utah
without regard to conflicts of laws principles. Any claim or lawsuit arising out of this Agreement
must be brought in the Third District Court pursuant to the laws of the State of Utah, or in the
U.S. District Court for the State of Utah located in Salt Lake County, Utah. Neither party will be
liable for failure or delay in performance to the extent caused by circumstances beyond its
reasonable control. The parties agree to meet at reasonable times on reasonable notice to
discuss this Agreement or Licensee's provision of Broadband Internet Services during the term
of the Agreement. This Agreement sets out all terms agreed between the parties and
supersedes all previous or contemporaneous agreements between the parties relating to its
subject matter. The failure of a party to insist upon strict adherence to any term of this
Agreement on any occasion will not be considered a waiver of such party's rights or deprive
such party of the right thereafter to insist upon strict adherence to that term or any other term of
this Agreement. This Agreement, including any exhibits, constitutes the entire agreement
between the parties related to this subject matter, and any change to its terms must be in writing
and signed by the parties. This Agreement is not intended to and will not be construed to give
any third party any interest or rights (including, without limitation, any third party beneficiary
rights) with respect to or in connection with any agreement or provision contained herein or
contemplated hereby. The parties may execute this Agreement in counterparts, including
facsimile, PDF, and other electronic copies, which taken together will constitute one instrument.
Each party to this Agreement agrees that Licensee may use electronic signatures.

16.    Warranty of Authorization; Binding on Successors and Assigns. The person
signing for and on behalf of Licensee warrants and represents that he or she is duly authorized
and empowered to enter into this agreement for and on behalf of Licensee, and that Licensee is
duly organized and validly existing under the laws of the State of Utah, and that by his or her
signature, he or she does bind Licensee to the terms of this Agreement. The person signing
below for Licensee warrants to the City that all necessary company approvals, authorizations
and consents have been obtained, and all company procedures required to be taken have been

                                                   15
followed to enable Licensee to enter into this Agreement and to perform its duties hereunder.
This Agreement is binding upon the successors and assigns of each of the parties.

17.       Governmental Immunity. City is a body corporate and politic of the State of Utah,
subject to the Governmental Immunity Act of Utah (the "Act"), Utah Code Ann. §§ 63G-7-101 to
- 904, as amended. The parties agree that City will only be liable within the parameters of the
Act. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed in any way, to modify the limits of
liability set forth in that Act or the basis for liability as established in the Act.

Signed by authorized representatives of the parties on the dates written below.

 Google Fiber Utah, LLC.                       White City Metro Township


 ___________________________________           ______________________________________
 (Authorized Signature)                        (Authorized Signature) Mayor Paulina Flint

 ___________________________________           ______________________________________
 (Name)                                        (Name)
 ___________________________________           ______________________________________________
 (Title)                                       (Title)

 Address:                                           Address: White City Metro Township
 1600 Amphitheatre Parkway                          10467 S. Carnation Dr
 Mountain View, CA 94043                            White City, Utah 840094

 Date:
 _______________________________                    Date: ______________________________

 STATE OF CALIFORNIA       )
                           : ss.                    APPROVED TO FORM:
 COUNTY OF _______________ )
                                                    ________________________________
 On _________________, 2021 before me,                         City Attorney
 ___________________________,
 NOTARY PUBLIC, personally appeared
 ___________________________________
 _________________ personally known to
 me (or proved to me on the basis of
 satisfactory evidence) to be the person(s)
 whose name(s) is/are subscribed to the
 within instrument, and acknowledged to me
 that he/she/they executed the same in
 his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and
 that by his/her/their signature(s) on the
 instrument the person(s) or the entity upon
 behalf of which the person(s) acted,
 executed the instrument.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal.


                                               16
Signature
__________________________________
Notary Public




                                     17
                                        EXHIBIT “A”

                           FORM OF LETTER OF AUTHORIZATION


[LICENSEE LETTERHEAD]
[Date]
Via Email ([Email Address])

City of [Placeholder]
[Addressee]
[Address]

Re: [Amended] Letter of Authorization

Dear [Name],

In accordance with Section __ of the License Agreement dated ______ between White City Metro
Township and Google Fiber Utah, LLC. (“Google Fiber”), Google Fiber hereby designates the
following Authorized Individuals (as that term is defined in the Agreement), who may submit and
sign permit applications and other submissions to the City on behalf of Google Fiber.

{Insert name and title for each Authorized Individual, including any Authorized Individual
previously named and whose authority continues. Strike through the names of any individuals
who are no longer authorized, if any.}

   1.   Name, Title
   2.   Name, Title
   3.   Name, Title (previously authorized, authorization continues)
   4.   Name, Title (authorization withdrawn)

This authorization may be withdrawn or amended and superseded by a written amendment to
this Letter of Authorization, which will be effective 24 hours after receipt by the City.

Kind regards,


[Name]
Manager, Google Fiber Utah, LLC.




                                               18
                             WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP

RESOLUTION NO.: 21-12-02                                         DATE: December 2, 2021

           A RESOLUTION OF WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
           ADOPTING AMENDMENTS TO THE 2021 WHITE CITY METRO
           TOWNSHIP BUDGET


      WHEREAS, the White City Metro Township (“White City”) is a municipality pursuant to Utah
Code Section 10-2a-401 et.seq.; and


       WHEREAS, the White City Metro Township Council (the “Council”) is the municipal legislative
body for White City pursuant to Utah Code Section 10-3b-501; and


      WHEREAS, Utah State Code, Sections 10-6-109, 10-6-127, and 10-6-128 of the Uniform Fiscal
Procedures Act for Utah Cities, requires that increases in appropriations for operating budgets of the
General Fund and other funds be made by resolution of the governing body; and


       WHEREAS, the required public notice was properly noticed on the State Public Notice Website
and City Website; and


       WHEREAS, pursuant to notice, the public hearing was held on the 2nd day of December, 2021;
and


       WHEREAS, in compliance with statutory requirements, the White City Metro Township amends
the 2021 White City Metro Township Budget as detailed in Attachment “A”.


    THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP
COUNCIL as follows:


      SECTION 1. The White City Metro Township Council hereby amends the 2021 White
City Budget, Attachment “A”.


       SECTION 2. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon passage thereof.
      APPROVED AND ADOPTED THIS 2rd DAY OF DECEMBER, 2021 by the White City Metro
Township Council, White City, Utah.



 ATTESTED:                                   FOR WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP:


 _________________________________           ___________________________________
 SHERRIE SWENSEN                             PAULINA F. FLINT, MAYOR
 SALT LAKE COUNTY CLERK
 METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER

                                                  APPROVAL AS TO FORM:


                                                  ______________________________
                                                  PAUL H. ASHTON
                                                  ATTORNEY

VOTING

COUNCIL MEMBER CARDENAZ voting          ______

MAYOR FLINT voting                      ______

COUNCIL MEMBER PRICE voting             ______

COUNCIL MEMBER LITTLE voting            ______

COUNCIL MEMBER PERRY voting             ______
 ATTACHMENT A

BEHIND THIS SHEET
                                   Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                         Budget Adjustment Form
Budget Year               2021


Date of Adjustment          November 10, 2021
  Adjustment                                                                                      Original      Amended
    Amount           Account Number    Project Number               Account Name/Description      Budget        Budget


  ($204,958.05)      70-3100.326                        CARES funding                                    0.00   (204,958.05)
     $2,000.00       60-4100.242                        COVID expenses                                             2,000.00
     $5,527.26       60-4100.929                        COVID transfer to GF                                       5,527.26


  ($341,323.00)      70-3100.326                        ARPA Funding                                            (341,323.00)
   $538,753.79       70-4950.1                          Contribution to fund balance                            538,753.79




          $0.00


Reason/Justification for Adjustment
To budget for the receipt and use of CARES2 and ARPA Funds




General Manager Authorization

                                      Brian Hartsell, Interim General Manager

Board Chair Authorization
                                      Joe Smolka, Board Chair

Authorized this                               Day of                                           2021
                             WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP

RESOLUTION NO.: 21-12-03                                        DATE: December 2, 2021

           A RESOLUTION OF WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
           ADOPTING THE 2022 WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP FINAL
           BUDGET


      WHEREAS, the White City Metro Township (“White City”) is a municipality pursuant to Utah
Code Section 10-2a-401 et.seq.; and


       WHEREAS, the White City Metro Township Council (the “Council”) is the municipal legislative
body for White City pursuant to Utah Code Section 10-3b-501; and


       WHEREAS, the Council has complied in all respects with State Law, including holding public
hearings, in establishing budgets for the Calendar Year beginning January 1, 2022 and ending December
31, 2022; and


       WHEREAS, pursuant to fiscal policy for funding the 2022 White City Budget, the Greater Salt
Lake Municipal Services District (the “MSD”) adopted the 2022 Budget for the MSD on October 20,
2021, releasing the funding for the 2022 White City Budget; and


       WHEREAS, the noticing for the public hearing to consider and copies of the 2022 White
City Tentative Budget, (Attachment “A”) were made available for public consideration at least
ten (10) days prior to the date of the public hearing for the Budget; and


      WHEREAS, the adoption of the 2022 Budget will allow White City to comply with State
Law and the Uniform Fiscal Procedures Act for Cities;


    THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP
COUNCIL as follows:


       SECTION 1. The White City Metro Township Council hereby adopts the 2022 White City
Final Budget, Attachment “A”.
      SECTION 2. That upon the final adopton, the budget shall be in effect for the budget year
and subject to later amendment as provided by law.


       SECTION 3. A copy of the final budget shall be posted and made available to the public
on the City’s website: www.whitecity-ut.org


      SECTION 4. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon passage thereof.

      APPROVED AND ADOPTED THIS 2rd DAY OF DECEMBER, 2021 by the White City Metro
Township Council, White City, Utah.



 ATTESTED:                                           FOR WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP:


 _________________________________                   ___________________________________
 SHERRIE SWENSEN                                     PAULINA F. FLINT, MAYOR
 SALT LAKE COUNTY CLERK
 METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER

                                                          APPROVAL AS TO FORM:


                                                          ______________________________
                                                          PAUL H. ASHTON
                                                          ATTORNEY

VOTING

COUNCIL MEMBER CARDENAZ voting                 ______

MAYOR FLINT voting                             ______

COUNCIL MEMBER PRICE voting                    ______

COUNCIL MEMBER LITTLE voting                   ______

COUNCIL MEMBER PERRY voting                    ______
 ATTACHMENT A

BEHIND THIS SHEET
            Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District2022 White City Bud WS


                                                                                         2022 Proposed
                                           Account No.     2020 Budget     2021 Budget      Budget
Change In Net Position
 Revenue:
  Taxes
   Sales taxes
    3100.300 Sales Tax                            3100.3     627,000.00     637,269.00       635,000.00
   Total Sales taxes                                         627,000.00     637,269.00       635,000.00

  Total Taxes                                                627,000.00     637,269.00       635,000.00

  Intergovernmental revenue
   Intergovernmental Other
    3100.350 SB 136 Sales Tax                    3100.35       60,500.00     57,919.00        62,500.00
   Total Intergovernmental Other                               60,500.00     57,919.00        62,500.00

   B&C Road Fund Allotment
    3100.560 B&C Road Fund Allotment             3100.56     214,000.00     201,941.00       218,000.00
   Total B&C Road Fund Allotment                             214,000.00     201,941.00       218,000.00

   State liquor fund
    3100.580 State Liquor Fund Allotment         3100.58        2,700.00      2,700.00         2,800.00
   Total State liquor fund                                      2,700.00      2,700.00         2,800.00

   CARES Act
    3100.325 Grants-CARES                       3100.325             -             -                -
   Total CARES Act                                                   -             -                -

  Total Intergovernmental revenue                            277,200.00     262,560.00       283,300.00

  Licenses and permits
   Business licenses
     3100.130 Business Licenses                  3100.13         500.00            -           2,800.00
   Total Business licenses                                       500.00            -           2,800.00

   Building permits
    3100.260 Building Permit                     3100.26       33,100.00           -          35,000.00
   Total Building permits                                      33,100.00           -          35,000.00

   Other license and permits
    3100.261 Other Permits                      3100.261       11,100.00           -          10,000.00
    3100.263 Sewer and Water Permits            3100.263             -             -
    3100.264 Zoning-Land Use Permit             3100.264             -             -
   Total Other license and permits                             11,100.00           -          10,000.00

  Total Licenses and permits                                   44,700.00           -          47,800.00
            Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District2022 White City Bud WS

 Charges for services
  Charges other
   3100.420 Engineering Services                3100.42           -         8,492.00         500.00
   3100.450 Planning Services                   3100.45           -       105,100.00      25,000.00
   3100.800 Interlocal Revenue                   3100.8           -              -
  Total Charges other                                             -       113,592.00      25,500.00

 Total Charges for services                                       -       113,592.00      25,500.00

 Fines and forfeitures
  Code enforcement fines and fees
   3100.240 Code Enforcement Fines and Fees     3100.24      1,600.00       1,600.00       1,500.00
  Total Code enforcement fines and fees                      1,600.00       1,600.00       1,500.00

  Justice court fines/forfeitures
   3100.500 Justice Court Fines/Forfeitures      3100.5     38,500.00      24,500.00      40,000.00
  Total Justice court fines/forfeitures                     38,500.00      24,500.00      40,000.00

 Total Fines and forfeitures                                40,100.00      26,100.00      41,500.00

 Interest
  3600.100 Interest Earnings                     3600.1      9,900.00            -         2,500.00
 Total Interest                                              9,900.00            -         2,500.00

 Miscellaneous revenue
  Miscellaneous other
   3600.900 Other Revenue                        3600.9           -              -
   3600.950 Non-Interlocal Revenue designated   3600.95           -              -
  Total Miscellaneous other                                       -              -              -

 Total Miscellaneous revenue                                      -              -              -

 Contributions and transfers
  3800.100 Transfer In                           3800.1    259,400.00     280,457.00     349,551.00
 Total Contributions and transfers                         259,400.00     280,457.00     349,551.00

Total Revenue:                                            1,258,300.00   1,319,978.00   1,385,151.00

Expenditures:
 Administration
  4100.100 Wages                                 4100.1     29,100.00      29,066.00      71,400.00
  4100.130 Employee Benefits                    4100.13           -              -         5,896.00
  4100.200 Awards, Promotional & Meals           4100.2           -              -
  4100.210 Subscriptions/Memberships            4100.21      1,000.00       1,070.00       1,070.00
  4100.220 Printing/Publications/Advertising    4100.22     10,000.00       1,000.00       1,000.00
  4100.240 Office Expense and Supplies          4100.24      2,000.00       1,070.00       1,070.00
  4100.310 Attorney-Civil                       4100.31     50,000.00      50,000.00      60,000.00
  4100.320 Attorney-Land Use                    4100.32           -              -
             Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District2022 White City Bud WS

   4100.330 Training and Seminars                4100.33        1,000.00       1,070.00       1,070.00
   4100.350 Budget and Auditing                  4100.35             -              -
   4100.360 Web Page Development/Maintenance 4100.36            3,000.00       3,210.00       3,210.00
   4100.370 Software/Streaming                   4100.37             -              -
   4100.380 Internet Connections                 4100.38             -              -
   4100.390 Payroll Processing Fees              4100.39          900.00         900.00         900.00
   4100.410 Communications                       4100.41        3,200.00       3,200.00       3,200.00
   4100.420 Contributions/Special Events         4100.42       28,000.00      18,200.00      28,000.00
   4100.470 Credit card and Bank Expenses        4100.47          500.00         535.00         535.00
   4100.510 Insurance                            4100.51        9,300.00       9,951.00      10,000.00
   4100.520 Workers Comp Insurance               4100.52             -              -
   4100.590 Postage                              4100.59             -              -
   4100.600 Professional and Technical            4100.6       84,400.00     104,385.00     105,000.00
   4100.625 UFA Emergency Services              4100.625 -                    10,000.00      10,000.00
   4100.650 SL (Client) County Support Services  4100.65       35,000.00      37,500.00      37,500.00
   4100.750 Non-Cap Improvements                 4100.75             -              -
   4100.800 Interlocal                            4100.8             -              -
   4100.850 Justice Court Remediation            4100.85        2,700.00       2,700.00       2,700.00
   4100.900 Sundry Charges                        4100.9             -              -
   4100.970 Rent                                 4100.97        2,000.00       2,000.00       2,000.00
   4100.980 Non-Classified Expenses              4100.98             -         4,600.00       5,000.00
  Total Administration                                        262,100.00     280,457.00     349,551.00

  CARES Act
   4100.241 COVID Expense and Supplies        4100.241               -              -
  Total CARES Act                                                    -              -              -

  Transfers
   4100.928 Trans to General Fund             4100.928        935,700.00    1,039,521.00   1,035,600.00
   4100.930 Trans to Capital Fund              4100.93         60,500.00             -
  Total Transfers                                             996,200.00    1,039,521.00   1,035,600.00

 Total Expenditures:                                         1,258,300.00   1,319,978.00   1,385,151.00

Total Change In Net Position                                         -              -              -
                            WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP

RESOLUTION NO.: 21-12-04                                      DATE: December 2, 2022

           A RESOLUTION OF WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
           ADOPTING THE 2022 WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP
           CONSOLIDATED FEE SCHEDULE


      WHEREAS, the White City Metro Township (“White City”) is a municipality pursuant to
Utah Code Annotated (“UCA”) Section 10-2a-401 et.seq.; and


        WHEREAS, the White City Metro Township Council (the “Council”) is the municipal
legislative body for White City pursuant to Utah Code Section 10-3b-501; and


        WHEREAS, the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (the “MSD”) is a local
district that provides certain municipal-type services to White City pursuant to UCA Section 17B-
2a-1103 et al; and


      WHEREAS, pursuant to fiscal policy for funding the 2022 White City Budget, the
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (the “MSD”) adopted the 2022 Budget for the
MSD on October 20, 2021, releasing the funding for the 2022 White City Budget; and


      WHEREAS, the 2022 White City Budget, and recently adopted Greater Salt Lake
Municipal Services District Budget both used revenue projections based on the 2022 Consolidated
Fee Schedule ("Attachment A"); and


       WHEREAS, to be in compliance with state law, White City must annually adopt a
consolidated fee schedule; and


    THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP
COUNCIL as follows:
      SECTION 1. The White City Metro Township Council hereby adopts the 2022 White City
Consolidated Fee Schedule, Attachment “A”.


      SECTION 2. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon passage thereof.

      APPROVED AND ADOPTED THIS 2nd DAY OF DECEMBER, 2021 by the White City
Metro Township Council, White City, Utah.



 ATTESTED:                                        FOR WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP:


 _________________________________                ___________________________________
 SHERRIE SWENSEN                                  PAULINA F. FLINT, MAYOR
 SALT LAKE COUNTY CLERK
 METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER

                                                       APPROVAL AS TO FORM:


                                                       ______________________________
                                                       PAUL H. ASHTON
                                                       ATTORNEY

VOTING

COUNCIL MEMBER CARDENAZ voting               ______

MAYOR FLINT voting                           ______

COUNCIL MEMBER PRICE voting                  ______

COUNCIL MEMBER LITTLE voting                 ______

COUNCIL MEMBER PERRY voting                  ______
 ATTACHMENT A

BEHIND THIS SHEET
                                 2022




Final Fee Schedule
DRAFTED NOVEMBER 2021 FOR 2022
TRAVIS HAIR
Contents
Addressing Fee Schedule................................................................................................................................ 2
Business License Fees ...................................................................................................................................... 3
Building Permit Fees ......................................................................................................................................... 4
Additional Building Permit Fees ......................................................................................................................... 5
Building Type Rate Valuation Table ................................................................................................................... 6
Supplemental Building Type Rate Valuation Table ............................................................................................ 7
Building and Inspection Fees ............................................................................................................................. 8
S.W.P.P.P. Fee, Penalty and Fine Schedules ................................................................................................... 9
Land Use Fees Schedule ................................................................................................................................ 10
Code Enforcement Fees Schedule .................................................................................................................. 13
Bond Fees Schedule ....................................................................................................................................... 13
Additional Fee Schedule .................................................................................................................................. 14
Fees collected for the Engineering Division ..................................................................................................... 15
Glossary .......................................................................................................................................................... 17




                                                                                  1
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Service District
Addressing Fee Schedule

             Service                                            Service Detail                                           Fee

                                                                                                               Flat Fee    *Per Lot

Assignment of Address (A-1)            Provide assignment of address information on                            $100.00     $40.00
                                       recorded subdivision plat and/or for individual
                                       parcel/building addresses. Ensure address information
                                       meets addressing standards and address information
                                       is suitable for mail delivery, public safety, utility
                                       services and general delivery of services.

Correction of Address (A-2             Provide correction of addresses. Document the                           $25.00      $15.00
                                       correction properly by filing an affidavit with the Salt
                                       Lake County Recorder's Office. Notify the property
                                       owner, public safety dispatch and the Salt Lake County
                                       Treasurer of the address change.

Street Name Change (A-3)               Confirm petition meets required number of signatures.                   $250.00     $50.00
                                       Document street name change and address change
                                       for each property along street by filing an affidavit with
                                       the Salt Lake County Recorder's Office. Notify the
                                       property owner, public safety dispatch and the Salt
                                       Lake County Treasurer of the address/street name
                                       change.

* Per lot fee is an addition to flat fee. For example, Assignment of Address fee for a single lot would be $100 + $40.
  For more than a one lot, the fee would be $100 + (number of lots x $40).




                                                                   2
Planning and Development Services
Business License Fees
Services                         Fee Activity Detail             Fee
Licensing Fees                   General License Fee             $150.00

                                 Per Employee Fee                $6.00

                                 Seasonal License                $120.00

                                 Solicitor ID                    $65.00

                                 Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU)   $50.00
                                 License

                                 Sexually Oriented Business -    $300.00
                                 excluding Outcall Services
                                 Outcall Service Businesses      $500.00

                                 25% Penalty                     25% of General License Fee
                                 100% Penalty                    100% of General License Fee

                                 Application Withdrawal Fee      25% of License Fee

Alcohol Related Licensing Fees   Single Event                    $150.00

                                 Off-Premise Beer Retailer       $250.00

                                 Beer-Only Restaurant            $350.00

                                 On-Premise Beer Tavern          $350.00

                                 Resort                          $500.00

                                 Wholesale Beer                  $300.00

                                 Restaurant Liquor               $500.00

                                 Manufacturing                   $350.00

                                 Recreational On-Premise Beer    $350.00
                                 Retailer
                                 Limited Restaurant Liquor       $500.00

                                 Club Liquor                     $600.00

                                 Banquet & Catering              $500.00




                                                  3
Planning and Development Services
Building Permit Fees
       Services                  Fee Activity Detail                                 Fee
Administrative Fees   Cancelled Building Permit Fee                    25% of Building Permit Fee

                      Building w/o permit                              2x Building Permit Fee

                      Reinstatement Fee                                ½ of Building Permit Fee

                      Reinstatement Fee (Final Inspections Only        $200.00

State Surcharge       Applicable State Surcharge on all Permits        1% of Building Fee

Inspection Fees       Reinspection                                     $50.00

                      Pre-Inspection (post fire or disaster)           $70.00

                      Overtime/After Hour (per hour)                   See hourly rate

                      Multi-unit Inspection                            $100.00

Permit Types          Building Permit Fee (Val)                        Based on valuation

                      Demolition Fee                                   Based on valuation

                      Mechanical, Plumbing & Electrical Permits        $70.00
                      (Circuit, Electrical Service Charge, Power to
                      Panel, Temporary Panel), Reroof (Shingles)
                      Additional appliance, fixture, etc.              $20.00

                      Grading Permit                                   Based on valuation

                      Retaining Wall                                   Based on valuation

                      Manufactured Home Permit                         $200.00

Plan Check            All plan check fees include up to 4 reviews.
                      Additional reviews will incur additional costs
                      billed at the Hourly Plan Check Fee rate.
                      Grading Plan Check                               Based on valuation

                      Hourly Plan Check Fee                            See hourly rate

                      Plan Check Fee (FCOZ)                            65% of Building Permit Fee

                      Land-Use Review Fee                              $110.00

                      Card File plan check fee (listed as plan         $150.00
                      check fee)
                      Plan Check Fee for smaller projects              $100.00

                      Plan Check Fee (Res)                             40% of Building Permit Fee

                      Plan Check Fee (Com)                             65% of Building Permit Fee



                                                  4
Planning and Development Services
Additional Building Permit Fees

Services                            Fee Activity Detail                Fee
Solar*                              Base Permit Cost (Charged with     $70.00
                                    KWA fee
                                    KWA (Additional Permit Cost per    $30.00
                                    KWA being produced)
                                    Plan Check                         $150.00

                                    Battery Storage System per         $2.00
                                    battery
                                    *Other fees may apply depending on extent of information to check
Reroof Permits                      Reroof with Sheathing (decking)    $110.00

                                    Reroof fee (without sheathing)     $70.00
                                    Reroof (Com)
                                    based on valuation below
                                    $1-$9,999                          $150.00

                                    $10,000-$49,999                    $300.00

                                    $50,000-and up                     $500.00
 Window and Door                                                       $70.00
                                    Window and Door (Res)
 (Replacement with no other work)
                                                                       Based on valuation – permit fee
                                                                       calculation based on declared
                                    Window and Door (Com)
                                                                       value and normal building permit
                                                                       fee calculation




                                                     5
Planning and Development Services
Building Type Rate Valuation Table
Square Foot Construction Costs
(This is updated as the new standards are published)




                                        6
Planning and Development Services
Supplemental Building Type Rate Valuation Table

Type                        Per                       Fee

Unfinished basements        Square Foot               $22.45
Basements Finished          Square Foot               $39.00
Decks (any type)            Square Foot               $21.00
Carport/Covered Patio       Square Foot               $21.00
Roof Conversions            Square Foot               $21.00
Fence (any type)            Lineal Foot               $19.00
Retaining Wall (any type)   Lineal Foot               $56.00
Exterior Finish             Square Foot               $4.50
Fire Sprinklers             Square Foot               $5.50
Remodel/Alteration          Square Foot               $37.00
Basement TI                 Square Foot               $26.50
Grading                     Cubic Yard Cut and Fill   Equation
Tenant Improvement          Calculated                35% of the valuation
Shell Only                  Calculated                80% of the valuation




                                           7
Planning and Development Services
Building and Inspection Fees
Fees based on total valuation rate
        Services               Fee Activity Detail                         Fee
                           Less than $2,000           $24.00 for the first $500 plus $3.50 for each
                                                      additional $100 or fraction thereof, to and
                                                      including $2,000.
                           $2,000 to $25,000          $76.50 for the first $2,000 plus $16.50 for
                                                      each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof, to
                                                      and including $25,000.
                           $25,000 to $50,000         $456.00 for the first $25,000 plus $12.00 for
                                                      each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof, to
                                                      and including $50,000.
      Total Valuation      $50,000 to $100,000        $765.00 for the first $50,000 plus $8.50 for
                                                      each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof, to
                                                      and including $100,000.
                           $100,000 to $500,000       $1,181.00 for the first $100,000 plus $6.50 for
                                                      each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof, to
                                                      and including $500,000.
                           $500,000 to $1,000,000     $3,781.00 for the first $500,000 plus $5.50 for
                                                      each additional $1,000 or fraction
                                                      thereof, to and including $1,000,000.
                           Over $1,000,000            $6,531.00 for the first $1,000,000 plus $4.50
                                                      for each additional $1,000 or fraction
                                                      thereof.




                                                  8
Planning and Development Services
S.W.P.P.P. Fee, Penalty and Fine Schedules
Services            Fee Activity Detail                                           Fee
                    Base Fee per project (Power to panel, furnace, solar and
                                                                                  $200.00
                    internal only items will be charged only if needed)
S.W.P.P.P
                    Plus per acre                                                 $50.00

Control Measure     All Penalty and fines are subject to Double Fee's for second offense, third
Fines               offense; maybe turn over to District Attorney for further action.
                    Primary Boundary Control - Per day per violation              $1,000.00

                    Secondary Boundary Control - Per day per violation            $500.00
                    Exit Control - Per day per violation                          $500.00
                    Waste Control - Per day per violation                         $500.00

                    Material Storage Control - Per day per violation              $250.00
                    Fugitive Dust Control - Per day per violation                 $250.00
                    Safety Control - Per day per violation                        $250.00
                    Plan administration (Each LDP requires SWPPP
                    administration and written documentation such as but not      $1,000.00
                    limited to; inspections, training, SWPPP amendments,
                    closeout documents etc.)
                    Working without a permit (Per day Per violation/ Subject to   $1,000.00
                    Double fee's)


Illicit Discharge   Storm water violation schedule for illicit discharges common to construction
                    and maintenance activities. It is a violation to discharge pollutants. The
                    presence of BMPs does not excuse an illicit discharge.
                    Illicit discharges are divided into the following categories
                    Sediment - Per day per violation                              $1,000.00
                    Cementations material - Per day per violation                  $500.00
                    Paints and Solvents - Per day per violation                    $500.00
                    Solid Waste - Per day per violation                           $500.00
                    Sanitary Waste - Per day per violation                        $2,000.00
                    Fuels - Per day per violation                                 $1,000.00
                    Fertilizers - Per day per violation                           $500.00
                    Organics - Per day per violation                               $250.00
                    Cleansers - Per day per violation                              $500.00
                    Hazardous material                                            $5,000.00
                    Any illicit discharge could be bumped to this category
                    depending on the impact.




                                                  9
Planning and Development Services
Land Use Fees Schedule
Review Process               Fee Activity Detail                                              Fee
Agency Review Meeting        Required for:                                                    $455.00
                             • New Development on property over 1 acre
                             • Re-Development on property over 1 acre
                             • All new FCOZ* Development
                             • All development proposals which will require more than one
                                review process.
                             • As requested by an applicant

                                 Conditional Use
                                 Permitted Use
                                 PUD (Planned Unit Development)
                                 SFD in FCOZ (Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone)
                                 Subdivision
Permitted Uses               Staff Site Plan Review; Reviews which require an Agency          $535.00
(Administrative Decisions,   Review from other agencies. Includes 4 reviews. Any additional
Staff Decision)              reviews will incur an additional plan review fee of $535.00.
                             • Permitted Uses
                             • SFD in FCOZ(Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone)
                             • Sign Permit
                             Staff Reviews which do not require an Agency Review from         $175.00
                             other agencies.
                             • Condominium Conversion
                             • Home Daycare or Pre-School
                             • Lot line adjustment [18.18.020]
                             • Lot Consolidation [18.08.020]
                             • Minor Site Plan Amendments
                             • Modify a Cell Tower
                             • Non-Complying Structure [19.88.150]
                             • Sign Permit Mobile Store
                             Staff Reviews approved per a request for an Agency Review for    $110.00
                             a Building Permit or Business License.
                             • Change of Use (Tenant Change (Permitted) or a Conditional
                                 Use which is subordinate to a Previously Approved
                                 Conditional Use)
                             • Home Business
                             • SFD in an approved subdivision (Non-FCOZ)
                                 Sign Permit
                             Development Services Director Review                             $275.00
                             • Extension of Time - Subdivision (18.08.015)
                             • Extension of Time - Conditional Use (19.84.050.4)
                             • Waiver of FCOZ Standards (19.72.060.A)
                             • Takings Relief Petition (19.93.030)




                                                   10
Land Use Fees Schedule Continued

Continued: Permitted Uses    Final Approval /Technical Review/ An Agency Review                   $535.00
(Administrative Decisions,   Includes 4 reviews. Any additional reviews will incur an
Staff Decision)              additional plan review fee of $535.00.
                                 • Boundary Line Adjustments [18.18.020] (Lot Line
                                    Adjustment or Lot Consolidation)
                                 • Conditional Use Technical Review [19.84.095)
                                 • PUD (Planned Unit Development) [19.84.095)
                                 • Subdivision Final Plat
Public Body Review           Planning Commission Meeting [19.05.040]                              $650.00
                                 • Conditional Uses
                                 • Waiver of FCOZ Standards [19.72.060.B and C]
                                 • PUD (Planned Unit Development) [19.84)
                                 • Special Exception to have Use Violation declared legal
                                     (19.88.140)
                                 • Signs Permit
                                 • Subdivisions (Preliminary Plat)
                                 • Re-Zone
                                 • General Plan Amendment
                             Mayor's Meeting (Planning Commission's recommendation                $115.00
                             to the Mayor)
                                 • Subdivision Amendment to create additional lots (608
                                     hearing) (18.18.040)
                                 • Subdivision Amendment to remove easements etc. (no
                                     preliminary plat required). (608 hearing) (18.18.050)
                                 • Subdivision Preliminary Plat
                                 • Subdivision Amendment to Vacate a Public Street
                                     (14.48, 18.18)
                                 • Street Dedication (for streets not reviewed as part of a
                                     Subdivision Plat) [15.28.030.B]
                                 • PUD Subdivision Preliminary Plat (Planning Commission
                                     approval for the PUD is required prior to consideration of
                                     the preliminary plat)
                                 • Exception to Road Improvements [15.28.070]
                             Council Meeting: (Planning Commission's recommendation               $115.00
                             to the Council.
                                 • General Plan and General Plan Amendment Ordinances
                                 • Re-Zone up to 10 Acres (Zoning Map Amendment)
                                     [19.90.050] (Re-Zones greater than 10 acres require
                                     consideration of an Area Amendment to the General
                                     Plan prior to acceptance of the Re-Zone application. See
                                     General Plan Amendment).
                                 • Takings Relief Petition [19.93.040]




                                                    11
Land Use Fees Schedule Continued

Continued: Public Body     General Plan or General Plan Amendment

                              •   Text Amendment                                              $300.00
                              •   Area Amendment (base)                                       $1500.00
                                                                                              plus per
                                                                                              acre fee
                              •   Greater than 10 to 50 Acres                                 Base Fee
                                                                                              plus
                                                                                              $200.00
                                                                                              per acre
                              •   50 to 100 Acres                                             Base Fee
                                                                                              plus
                                                                                              $300.00
                                                                                              per acre
                              •   Larger than 100 acres                                       To be
                                                                                              determined
                                                                                              prior to
                                                                                              acceptance
                                                                                              of the
                                                                                              application
                              •   Suggested Projects                                          No Fee
Land Use Hearing Officer      •   Appeals of Conditional Use Decisions [19.92.030]            $1,000.00
Review                        •   Appeals of a zoning decision or interpretation
                                  [19.92.050]
                              •   Special Exceptions [19.92.060]
                                      o Adjusting a zone boundary line
                                      o Enlargement or addition to a noncomplying
                                         structure
                                      o Relocation or reconstruction of a noncomplying
                                         structure
                              •   Variances from the terms of the zoning ordinance
                                  [19.92.040]
                              •   Appeal of a final decision on a Subdivision [18.08.040]
                              •   Appeals of a waiver or modification decision
                                  [19.72.060.C.9]

                              Note: In the case of appeals: if the Land Use Hearing Officer
                              finds in favor of the appellant/applicant then the $1000.00
                              shall be refunded less a $100.00 administration fee. (To be
                              clear $900.00 shall be refunded).
                              • Double fee (if construction has started)                      $2,000.00




                                                 12
Planning and Development Services
Code Enforcement Fees Schedule
Activity                   Fee Schedule Activity                Fee
Administrative Fee         Weed, tree removal, debris.          $100.00
Civil Penalty                                                   Based on number of days
Clean-up Fees              Billed costs from Public Works for   Based on size
                           clean up as well as an
                           administrative fee as noted above.
Post Compliance Penalty                                         Based on number of days




Planning and Development Services
Bond Fees Schedule
Services                   Fee Activity Detail                  Fee
Bond Administration Fees   Bond Processing (must be paid        $100.00
                           prior to acceptance of the bond)
                           Bond Forfeiture (will be called      Based on Bond Amount
                           upon if improvements not done by
                           expiration date)
                           Deferred Curb and Gutter             Based on Size
                           Bond Reinspection (This is used      $100.00
                           for ENG and CODE. This is also
                           used for a Partial Bond Release.
                           Will be added if applicant fails
                           bond inspection twice.)
                           Overtime/After Hour inspection fee   See hourly rate




                                          13
Planning and Development Services
Additional Fee Schedule
Additional Services/Costs     Fee Activity Detail                    Fee
Development Agreement                                                $1,000.00
Hourly Rate                   Per hour fee (Overtime/After           $120.00 per hour
                              Hours/Plan Check/Etc.
Geology and Natural Hazards   Initial Site Assessment                $75.00
Review
                              Review of a technical report for a     Full cost of review completed by
                              single-family dwelling and all other   contracted agency.
                              development types.
GRAMA                         Research and compiling fees            Charged actual costs for research
                                                                     and materials per MSD Records
                                                                     Access and Management Policy.
Material Costs                Copies (up to 11x17in)                 Actual costs of materials per MSD
                              Copies (Larger than 11x17in)           Records and Access and
                              Large Format Color Map                 Management Policy
                              Large Format Black and White
                              Map
                              CDs, USB Thumb Drives, etc.
Research                      Types of Research offered:             $25.00 plus $25.00 per hour
                                 • Legal status of a lot or
                                     parcel
                                 • Zoning compliance letter
                                 • Administrative decision
Salt Lake County Health       Health Department                      $25.00
Department Review
Postage                       Postage (for noticing mailings this    Varies by project
                              is charged per meeting)
Newspaper notice              Noticing costs for meeting before      Varies by project
                              councils




                                              14
Planning and Development Services
Fees collected for the Engineering Division
Services                            Fee Activity Detail                    Fee
Administrative Charges              Bond Processing Fee (3.56.060)         $100.00
                                    Bond Re-inspection Fee                 $100.00
                                    (3.56.080)
                                    Partial release (3.56.070)             $100.00
                                    Compliance Fine                        $50.00
                                    Exception Request                      $250.00
                                    Express Checking                       $250.00
Right of Way Improvement Fee        Curb, gutter, sidewalk & drive         $200.00 + $2.00 per linear foot
(3.48.010)                          approaches
No existing curb & gutter, design   Curb, gutter & drive approaches        $200.00 + $2.00 per linear foot
& stake, inspect by County (with    Sidewalk only                          $200.00 + $2.00 per linear foot
or without sidewalk)                Drive approaches only                  $130.00 + $2.00 per linear foot
No existing curb & gutter, design   Curb, gutter, sidewalk & drive         $150.00 + $1.00 per linear foot
& stake, inspect by other, check    approaches
and inspect by County               Curb, gutter & drive approaches        $150.00 + $1.00 per linear foot
(with or without sidewalk)          Sidewalk only                          $100.00 + $1.00 per linear foot
                                    Drive approaches only                  $100.00 + $0.50 per linear foot
Existing curb & gutter, design &    Sidewalk & Drive Approaches            $20.00 + $1.00 per linear foot
stake, check and inspect by         Drive approaches only                  $20.00 + $1.00 per linear foot
County
Replacement of existing             Re-staking Fee where County
improvements                        does staking
                                    Minimum                                $100.00
                                    Maximum                                $500.00
Final Subdivision Fees              Final Subdivision Fees                 Equation
                                    Engineering Checking Fee               Equation based on bond amount
                                    Amended Subdivision Plat               $350.00
Plat Filing and Engineering         Prior to review, 35% of 6% of          Equation
Checking Fee for Subdivisions       bond, default of $90 per lot,
                                    minimum of
                                    $180 or the appropriate
                                    calculation described above.
                                    Prior to recording or construction,
                                    100% of 6% of bond minus fee
                                    already paid.
Engineering Checking Fee for                                               $200.00
Subdivision with no plat
Engineering Checking Fee for        Prior to engineering review            $150.00
Non-Subdivision development         Prior to approval or construction,     Equation
                                    4.5% of total bond for off-site, and
                                    on-site storm drainage minus fees
                                    already paid
Road dedication fees for non-       Where dedication is required for       $150.00
subdivision development             street widening and improvements
                                    Street signs                           $180.45


                                    Urban Hydrology Checking Fee           $150.00

                                                    15
Fees collected for the Engineering Division Continued
 Geology/Natural Hazards Review       Initial Site Assessment               $75.00
 Application Fees (3.52.160)          Review of Technical Reports -         Full cost of review completed by
                                      Minor Report                          contracted agency.
                                      Review of Technical Reports -         Full cost of review completed by
                                      Major Report                          contracted agency.
 Storm Drain Impact Fee               Landuse Storm Drain impact            Equation
 Traffic Impact Review                Initial Site Assessment               $75.00
                                      Review of a Minor Report              Full cost of review completed by
                                      (3.52.17)                             contracted agency.
                                      Review of a Major Report              Full cost of review completed by
                                      (3.52.17)                             contracted agency.
Public Works – Engineering
Special Events
Special Events within the following areas require the submittal of an application: Big Cottonwood Canyon,
Emigration Canyon, Kearns, Magna, Unincorporated Salt Lake County, and White City.
PW Engineering does not provide services to Copperton Township or any incorporated city.
Insurance certificates, maps, and fees will need to be submitted to the Permit Specialist before your request
can be fully processed. See fee schedule below.

                                  Metro Township Special Event Permit Fees
 # of Participants                                       Fee per day

 0 to 100                                                $50.00

 100 to 200                                              $100.00
 200 to 400                                              $200.00

 400 to 600                                              $500.00
 Over 600                                                $1,000.00

 Filming Fees                                            $200.00


   •   $50 fee for Big Cottonwood Canyon and any Unincorporated Salt Lake County areas.
   •   Special events or Filming held on any state roadway(s) may also require an additional permit from Utah
       Department of Transportation.
   •   Special events or Filming held in any canyon may also require an additional permit from United States
       Department of Agriculture, Forest Service Division.
   •   Sponsors of block parties will also be required to submit paperwork with the signatures of affected
       neighbors' concurrence of the road closure. This paperwork should reflect the addresses of each
       resident, as well as their signature indicating agreement for the road closure. Barricades and security
       are the responsibility of the applicant.


                                                      16
Planning and Development Services
Glossary
CODE: Code enforcement

Condominium Plat: The procedure to review and record a condominium plat is subject to the Condominium
Ownership Act (57.8- Utah Code). Staff review includes addressing all units, a review to verify compliance with
the zoning ordinance and conditions of approval previously imposed and an engineering review to verify
compliance with platting requirements.

COM: Commercial

ENG: Engineering

Equation: Used when the fee is based on an equation structure that cannot be easily defined in a table.
Please contact the appropriate department for more detail on what that fee includes.

General Plan Amendment: Planning Commissions make a recommendation to the Council who must
authorize Amendments to a General Plan. This process is used only when it is demonstrated by the applicant
that there has been a change in circumstances or other sufficient reasons to justify consideration. A study that
includes public involvement is conducted after Council gives the direction to proceed to the Development
Services Director.

Home Daycare I Pre-school Application Fees: Although a home daycare I pre-school is operated out of a
private residence, it is not considered or reviewed in the same manner as a home business. Therefore, they
are listed separately in the fee schedule and in the ordinance.

Modification to a Recorded Subdivision Plat: Utah Code, 17.27-808, requires a specific process be followed
to amend, vacate or alter a recorded subdivision plat. This involves application, notice, a public hearing before
the planning commission and executive (commonly referred to as a 608 hearing/ Mayor's Meeting).
Additionally, an engineering review of the preliminary and final plat prior to approval and recording is required.
Fees may include: Planning Commission Review, Additional Public Body Review, Technical Review.

PUD (Planned Unit Development): In those zones which allow development of a PUD they are listed as a
Conditional Use, which requires review by the Planning Commission. For developers who intend to sell
individual lots within the PUD both the Planning Commission Review and a Subdivision Preliminary Plat would
be required (also a review by the Planning Commission), and a Technical Review prior to final approval is also
required. Per the fee schedule each of these reviews requires separate fee.

Additionally, because more than one review process is required the application would also involve an Agency
Review Meeting. Fees may include: Agency Coordination Meeting, Planning Commission Review (Conditional
Use), Planning Commission Review (Preliminary Plat), Technical Review.

The conditional use approval (planning commission approval) is required prior to preparation of the subdivision
preliminary plat to ensure that the recommendations of the Planning Commission are properly incorporated
into the preliminary plat.

Re-Zone (Zoning Map Amendment): A request to change the existing zoning (re-zone) requires: review and
recommendation from the planning commission (Public Body Review) and final decision by the council
(Additional Public Body Review)and technical work (Technical Review) for map and index work). In cases
where the General plan is not clear on the zoning designation which should be allowed, compliance with the
General Plan must be considered as part of the re-zone application. The impacts of a re-zone which is for an

                                                       17
area of 10 acres or larger should be considered as part of a General Plan Amendment which must be
completed prior to accepting the application for a property re-zone.

Res: Residential

Signs: Signs vary in the type and complexity of review process required therefore they are listed under several
review types. It is intended that the fees are assessed per review process and not per sign. For example, a
business that had 2 signs which required Planning Commission review would be charged for 1 planning
commission review. However, a business which had 1 sign which required planning commission review and
another sign which did not, would be charged for 1 planning commission review and 1 staff review.

Subdivision: A request to subdivide property requires review and approval of a preliminary plat, and a
Technical Review of the Final Plat. Additionally, an Agency Review Meeting is required. Note that in the case
of a "one-lot" subdivision there might also be an Administrative Review for the proposed Single-Family
Dwelling. Fees may include: Agency Coordination Meeting, Planning Commission Meeting, Technical Review,
Staff Review of a Site Plan.

Valuation: The estimated construction cost for the project




                                                      18
