                          WHITE CITY COUNCIL MEETING AGENDA

                                      December 5, 2024
                                         6:00 PM
                             White City Water Improvement District
                             999 E Galena Drive, White City 84094

PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the White City Council will hold a regular
meeting on the 5th day of December 2024 at the White City Water Improvement District, 999 E
Galena Drive, White City, Utah as follows:

This meeting will be held at the anchor location and electronically for members of the staff
and/or public that cannot attend. Those interested in attending electronically should follow
the information noted at the end of this agenda. **Portions of the meetings may be closed for
reasons allowed by statute. Motions relating to any of the items listed below, including final
action, may be taken.

6:00 p.m. - WORKSHOP
1. Discussion/Clarification of Agenda Items
2. Update and Discussion on Detached Accessory Dwelling Units [DADU Committee]
3. Update and Discussion on Community Civic Center [Civic Center Committee]
4. Discuss UFA Funding Request for 2025 Recreation Areas Contribution letter from Salt Lake
   County Mayor [Council Member Tyler Huish]
5. Discuss Communication Policies [Maridene Alexander, MSD Communications Manager]
6. Presentation from Streamline Operations regarding City Website [Rori Andreason, City
   Administrator]
7. Discuss future agenda items
8. Close Workshop Meeting

BUSINESS MEETING

1. Welcome and Determine Quorum

2. Unified Fire Authority Report [Battalion Chief Kenneth Aldridge]

3. Unified Police Department Report [Detective Josh Smith, Chief April Morse]

4. Public Comments -- (Limited to 3 minutes per person) Any person wishing to comment on
   any item not otherwise scheduled for a public hearing on the agenda may address the Council
   at this point by coming to the table and giving their name for the record. Comments should be
   limited to not more than three (3) minutes unless additional time is authorized by the
   Governing Body.)

5. ACTION ITEMS
   5.1 Consider approval of August 1, 2024 Minutes [Nicole Smedley, Recorder]
   5.2 Consider Resolution No. 2024-12-01 Approving the Streamline Operations Subscription
       Agreement for the White City Website Design and Maintenance [Rori Andreason, City
       Administrator]

   5.3 Consider Ordinance No. 2024-O-06 Amending Chapter 2.56 of the White City Municipal
       Code Regarding Community Councils [Rori Andreason, City Administrator]

6. DISCUSSION ITEMS
   6.1 Discussion and Possible Action regarding Title 12 of the White City Municipal Code
       regarding Code Enforcement and Community Preservation [Paul Ashton, Attorney]

   6.2 Discussion and Possible Action regarding Title 8 of the White City Municipal Code
       regarding Animals [Paul Ashton, Attorney]

7. ADMINISTRATOR REPORT - Rori Andreason, City Administrator

8. COUNCIL REPORTS
   8.1 Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District/Council of Governments [Mayor Paulina
   Flint]
   8.2 Unified Fire Authority/Unified Fire Service Area [Council Member Tyler Huish]
   8.3 Mosquito Abatement/Salt Lake County Animal Control [Council Member Linda Price]
   8.4 Unified Police Department/SLVLESA [Council Member Phillip Cardenaz]
   8.5 Wasatch Front Waste & Recycling District [Council Member Greg Shelton]

9. CLOSED SESSIONS IF NEEDED AS ALLOWED UNDER UTAH CODE ANN. 52-4-205)
   9.1 Discussion of the Character, Professional Competence or Physical or Mental Health of an
   Individual.
   9.2 Strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation.
   9.3 Strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property.
   9.4 Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel,
   9.5 Other lawful purposes as listing in Utah Code 52-4-205
10. ADJOURN

ZOOM MEETING
Topic: White City Council Meeting
Time: Dec 5, 2024 06:00 PM Mountain Time (US and Canada)

Join Zoom Meeting
https://us06web.zoom.us/j/81449845882?pwd=rkHWy3NxOEYIJX4nKB3mh9YvjZUXq1.1

Meeting ID: 814 4984 5882
Passcode: 996109

       Upon request with three (3) working days’ notice, the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District, in
support of White City, will make reasonable accommodation for participation in the meeting. To request
2|Page                             whitecity.utah.gov
assistance, please call (385) 468-6703 – TTY 711.
        A copy of the foregoing agenda was posted at the following locations on the date posted below: White City
website at whitecity.utah.gov and the State Public Notice Website at http://pmn.utah.gov . Pursuant to State Law
and White City Ordinance, Councilmembers may participate electronically. Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 52-4-
205, Parts of Meetings may be Closed for Reasons Allowed by Statute.

POSTED:        December 2, 2024




3|Page                              whitecity.utah.gov
                             October 21, 2024



Jennifer Wilson              Chief Dominic Burchett
Mayor                        United Fire Authority
                             3380 S. 900 W.
Erin Litvack                 Salt Lake City, UT 84119
Deputy Mayor,
County Services
                             Re: UFA Funding Request for 2025 Recreation Areas Contribution
Darrin Casper
Deputy Mayor,
Finance and Administration
                             Cc: Mayor Weichers (UFA Board Chair), Councilmember Hull (UFSA Board Chair),
                             Councilmember Laurie Stringham (SLCo Council Chair), Dave Delquadro (SLCo), Mitch Park
Catherine Kanter             (SLCo), Rachel Anderson (UFSA), Tony Hill (UFA)
Deputy Mayor,
Regional Operations
                             Dear Chief Burchett:
Andrew Roberts
Chief of Staff               Per Salt Lake County Policy 7037, UFA submitted to my office (as part of the county’s FY
                             2025 budget process) a funding request for a “Recreation Areas Contribution” to cover
                             costs for fire and emergency medical protection services in the designated “Recreation
                             Areas” within unincorporated Salt Lake County. As you will see in the attached memo, my
                             proposed 2025 budget for SLCo includes a Recreation Areas Contribution in the amount of
                             $2,503,320, which is 20% less than the amount requested in UFA’s funding proposal and
                             $672,394 less than the current Recreation Areas Contribution amount of $3,175,714 (FY
                             2024). In the interest of minimizing the immediate impact on the UFA budget, however, I
                             am recommending an effective date for the reduction to correspond with the start of UFA’s
                             next fiscal year, i.e., July 2025, resulting in a net reduction in the contribution for the
                             county’s FY 2025 budget of $359,479. The attached memo provides specific detail
                             regarding the funding request analysis, but I also wanted to share some general thoughts
                             on concerns that led to my decision.

                             First, SLCo is anticipating an extremely challenging budget for FY 2025. As with FY 2024,
                             there has been a slowdown in tax revenues, and inflationary pressures continue to impact
                             the cost of delivering services. Plain and simple, this year’s budget process is going to be
                             tough. That is why I asked all county agencies to search deeply for budget reductions so
                             that we can maintain a structurally balanced budget without compromising the critical
                             needs of our residents.

                             In addition, SLCo government continues to find itself in a period of significant transition. As
                             the regional government for the Salt Lake valley, we remain dedicated to supporting the
                             well-being of our municipal partners. We very much appreciate the unique needs of each
                             municipality, and we strive to effectively serve all of our communities in a fair and balanced
                             manner. As you know, however, the role of SLCo government has evolved over the years as
                             our county has moved toward wall-to-wall cities, and that transformation is scheduled to
                             be almost fully actualized following the implementation of HB 330’s mandated annexation




                                                                                             Page 31
of the remaining unincorporated islands. As we move through this phase of realignment, SLCo must
now consider how these changes impact the county’s ability to continue to provide services to all
county residents in a fair and equitable manner, and we also need to consider the possibility of
additional state legislative action.

One of the more significant issues we find ourselves wrestling with in this context is the question of
how unincorporated revenue (including centrally assessed revenue) should be treated. That issue
arose in the context of the recent separation of the Sheriff’s office from the UPD, and it has
relevance to the county’s revenue sharing arrangements with the UFSA and the MSD as well. As the
unincorporated population continues to dwindle and the former metro townships convert to cities
(and, in turn, enjoy the opportunity to levy new revenue sources), it is my belief that the county
should be considering opportunities to “right size” existing County financial support in the interest
of seeking equity across the county as a whole. As with the Sherrif/UDP separation process, I believe
it is only fair to assess to what extent it is appropriate for general funds and centrally assessed
revenue to primarily (or even solely) benefit some municipalities as opposed to providing a more
county-wide benefit.

I do, however, acknowledge that this subject is highly complex, and it will take time and a
coordinated effort on the part of SLCo and the relevant service districts, service providers and
municipalities to arrive at an amicable resolution. As such, I see my decision on the FY 2025
Recreational Areas Contribution as a starting point as we continue to explore solutions to achieve
fairness across the board. My office remains committed to engaging in that dialogue and, to that
end, I would like to broach the idea of bringing in an independent third-party mediator to help
facilitate the conversation. I look forward to exploring that idea with you.

Thank you for your understanding and patience as we continue to work through this complex topic. I
sincerely appreciate the trusted partnership that UFA has with my office, and I very much look
forward to working with you and your team to find a solution that works for all.

Sincerely,




Jenny Wilson




                                                                        Page 32
                                          MEMO
                         Salt Lake County Proposed Budget FY 2025
                          Recreation Areas Contribution Analysis

Overview

This memo relates to the “Recreation Areas Contribution” 1 (in the amount of $3,175,714) that
Salt Lake County currently provides to                          )
emergency medical protection services in the “Recreation Areas” within unincorporated Salt Lake
County, as designated by the Salt Lake County Council (see Attachment A for map of the Council
Adopted Recreation Areas).

The Recreation Areas include certain unincorporated areas within (i) the eastern Wasatch Canyons
(including portions of Little Cottonwood Canyon, Big Cottonwood Canyon, Millcreek Canyon,
Parley’s Canyon, and Emigration Canyon), and (ii) the western Oquirrh Mountain Range (including
                       , Rose                            In the past, the County included one
municipality (Brighton) in the designated recreation area, but the County has since removed
Brighton from the Recreation Areas and has included other additional portions of the
unincorporated areas (e.g., areas in Parleys and Emigration Canyons). As a point of information, the
following areas are expressly excluded from the boundaries of the Recreation Areas: (on the east
side) the Towns of Alta and Brighton and the city of Emigration Canyon, and (on the west side)
portions of unincorporated county known as Hi County Estates (I and II), as well as the westside
centrally assessed areas.

Details

                                                                                   for eligible
                                                                       budget process. See
Attachment B for                      t. The County
funding request and has the following observations:

           The amount requested
           “gap”) between the total revenue and total expenses for the unincorporated Recreation
           Areas,
           to those areas ( “Recreation Areas Gap”).
           This     requested amount of $3,129,150 is less than the current budgeted Recreation
           Areas Contribution amount of $3,175,714 (by an amount equal to $46,564) due to the
           County Council’s redrawing of the Recreation Areas (e.g., the removal of Brighton and the
           addition of the new unincorporated areas).
            The redrawing of the Recreation Areas to exclude Brighton and include new unincorporated
           areas met
           disproportionately            similarly situated municipalities (such as Brighton and Alta).



1
    Previously referred to as the “Canyon Contribution”




                                                                                 Page 33
     However, by drawing the Recreation Areas to exclude the centrally assessed areas on the
     west side of the County (which are almost exclusively owned by Rio Tinto/Kennecott) (the
     “Westside Centrally Assessed Areas”), the Recreation Areas Gap calculation fails to
     consider the revenue/expenses of the Westside Centrally Assessed Areas.
     The following is a summary of revenue/expenses shown on the            funding request for
     unincorporated Recreation Areas:
          o Revenue: $749,517
          o Expenses: $3,878,667
          o Recreation Areas “Gap”/Amount Requested: $3,129,150
     The t
     centrally assessed) is $7,094,698, broken down as follows:
                      Real Property $2,166,606
                      Centrally Assessed $4,737,825
                      Personal Property $190,267
     A primary purpose for the current law related to this subject (Utah Code Ann. Section 17-34-
     1(5)(d)) was to allow                        s to fund
     services within a municipal or unincorporated area (if designated as a recreation area by the
     applicable legislative body) in recognition of the reality that some jurisdictions experience a
     disproportionate share of public safety service needs that are generated by residents who
     live outside of the respective jurisdiction. Although that concern is legitimate, a question
                                                                              the Recreation Areas
     Gap, as opposed to the net revenue generated by the Westside Centrally Assessed Areas?
     Another way to ask that question: If unincorporated centrally assessed areas generate
     $4,737,825 of revenue for the

     Westside Centrally Assessed Areas funds a portion of the              in Copperton (115)
     and one of the stations in Magna (102), which provide service to the Westside Centrally
     Assessed Areas. The annual costs of Station 115 (Copperton) is roughly $2.6M and the
     annual cost of Station 102 is roughly $3.1M per                               .

Budget Recommendation


     budget process                                      Recreation Areas Contribution request (of
     $3,129,150) by 20% ($625,830), resulting in a total annual Recreation Areas Contribution
     of $2,503,320.
                                                                                    for the second half
                             -        ,                                                          ly of
     2025. This option would result in (i) a contribution amount of $1,564,575 for the period of
         -      2025 ,                                          , and (ii) a contribution amount of
     $1,251,660                       ly-December 2025, i.e., 50% of the reduced amount of
     $2,503,320.
     This will result in a change to the current budget in the following amounts:(i) for the
     months of 2025, a reduction of $23,282, and (ii) for the second 6 months of 2025, a
     reduction of $336,197; for a total reduction in           of $359,479.




                                                                                Page 34
A full year of the 20% reduction would amount to $672,394 ($3,175,714-$2,503,320).
See Attachment C for a spreadsheet with
This recommendation is only being made for               2025; it being understood that the
parties will need to continue to consider a long-term solution.




                                                                       Page 35
           Attachment A
Council Adopted Recreation Map Area




                                      Page 36
    Parleys/Emigration Canyon




Page 37
                                                            Attachment C
                                                            Spreadsheet

 UFA Recreation Areas Contribution
 FY 2025

 Recreation Areas Contribution (2024)   3,175,714.00

 2025 UFA Budget Request                3,129,150.00   50% is 1,564,575.00

 Difference (Annual)                    46,564.00      50% is $23,282.00

 First 6 mos ‘25 reduction              23,282.00


 20% Reduction of UFA Budget Request    625,830.00


 UFA Budget Request minus 20%           2,503,320.00   50% is $1,251,660.00


 First 6 mos '25 (Jan-June)
 Recommended Budget Amount              1,564,575.00
 Second 6 mos '25 (July-Dec)
 Recommended Budget Amount              1,251,660.00

 Total 2025 Contribution                2,816,235.00


                                            23,282.00
Second 6 mos ’25 reduction                  336,197.00
Total 2025 reduction                        359,479.00
Difference b/w 3,175,714. and               672,394.00
2,503,320




                                                                              Page 38
The compliant website platform that
 streamlines everything you do 🚀




   ⚖ Compliant   ♿ Accessible 📲 Engaging 󰳕 Fast   🛡Secure
Who is
Streamline?
We aren’t just a website company.
We’re a special district company
who specializes in technology. Our
mission is simple: make the lives of
special districts easier.




1,800+
Special Districts Strong 💪
What special
districts love most
about Streamline 🥰
♿ Built-in Accessibility

⚖ Compliance with State & Federal Requirements

📣 Communication & Engagement tools

📆 Meetings & Operations Tools

😍 Stunning Design

☎ Training & Support
Streamline is


Accessible
By Default ♿
Accessibility lawsuits are on the rise and
cost thousands.

We help you avoid the risk while making
sure that everyone, regardless of their
ability, can access your services and
resources.

👋 Say goodbye to expensive widgets
                                         What’s the risk?


    2,403
Districts have been affected by
                                                         56%
                                             Increase in the number of web
                                                                                                                       $39k
                                                                                                               Average amount for a web
a web accessibility action. 󰳌               accessibility lawsuits in 2021. ⬆                                accessibility claim in 2023. 💰




                          * Very few, if any, special district insurance policies cover the costs of web ADA issues.
                                   Am I at risk for a website
                                    accessibility lawsuit?
          If you’re a government agency, both state and federal ADA laws affect you. But don’t worry, we’ve got your back!




                                                                                                                             👏
            🌎                                   󰑔                                  🏛
      WCAG 2.1                          Section 508                         State Laws
   The international website          Federal law that requires         Colorado’s HB 21-1110 and
accessibility content guidelines   agencies to provide individuals     California’s AB 434 require that
 referenced by both state and      with disabilities equal access to     organizations comply with
         federal laws.                  electronic information.               WCAG guidelines.
Your Accessibility Assistant guides you on
    how to ﬁx issues right on page 💯
Built-in PDF
remediation services
and archiving for all
ﬁles on your site 🙌
🚨Easily view which PDFs are not accessible

🛠Request a PDF remediation on the spot

🗂Manage and archive all PDFs on your site

💸Only $7 a page saves you money
Streamline is

Compliance
Made Easy 󰳌
Our legal team does the research and our
platform shows you exactly how to meet
your state and federal requirements.

👋 No more paying billable hours to legal reps
Stay compliant
and have some fun
doing it 🎯
✅Up-to-date checklists and templates

🚨Easily see what needs to be resolved

📍Filter tasks by your state’s requirements

🗂 Our free SB 272 Tool helps you publish your
  Enterprise System Catalog.
Automated tools
simplify how you
manage meetings 🧘
📑Upload required documents in one place

⚖Meet compliance requirements

⏰Set agenda reminders

󰠁Post remote meeting links with the help of
our Virtual Meeting Link wizard

📆Feed meetings straight to your homepage
Post agendas and
minutes on time with
email reminders and
past due alerts ⏰
Streamline will


Make Your
Day-to-Day Tasks
Faster & Easier
⚡
W ith powerful integrated tools like
payments, webforms, e-signature, and a
built-in intranet portal, Streamline is
everything you need in one place.

👋 Say goodbye to juggling multiple services
Accept payments
and donations right
on your website 👌
🧾 Integrated Reporting tracks inventory, revenue & receipts

🛡Backed by Stripe for security and reliability

🔁Sync with your existing accounting software
                                  Verify™




Ditch the expensive
document signing service
and require an e-signature
on any of your webforms ✍
It’s especially handy for things like:

💼 Job Applications

💡 Training signups

🗂 Public record request

🚿 Service requests

🔥 Burn permits

⏰ Timesheets
Get everyone on
the same page
with our built-in
Intranet Portal 󰳕
📑Post and store internal documents

📣Post internal updates and alerts

💬 Optimize board communications

⏰ Collect timesheets

💰Submit expenses
Streamline is


📣 Better
Community
Engagement
What the public thinks about your district
matters. Make sure the right people know
the right things so that you’re never at
risk.

👋 Say goodbye to your email marketing services
Turn any page into a
communication hub
with one click email
and social share 📲
📧 Share To Your Email Lists

📲 Share to Your Social Media Platforms

👥 Manage Subscribers and Lists

󰳕 Assign Managers and Set Permissions
Streamline is


Pro Design
That’s Easy to
Manage! 🪄
Enhance your online presence with our
intuitive design system Amplify™.
On-page editing, designer layouts,,
accessible color palettes and more!


👋 No more sacriﬁcing design for compliance
          Amplify™




Designer Sections
that can be added
anywhere 😍
            Amplify™




                                   Multiple section
                                   layouts for your
                                   unique style 💁




💸 No more paying for redesigns
󰳒 No more relying on designers
󰳕 No more waiting for developers
Amplify™




           More design
           possibilities for your
           district’s needs 😍
Streamline is


🤝 The Best
Support & Training
Free and unlimited training and support is
available for all users. When you reach
out for help, a real human will get back to
you in less than an hour.

👋 Say goodbye to chatbots
            What does our support look like?


99.9%
Customer retention rate
                                       1hr
                             Average response time to
                                                                             Free
                                                                        Training and support whenever
out of our 1,800+ Special     support tickets from a                        you need it plus online
       Districts ☺                real human 🙋                            webinars and resources 💡



                            * Emergency After Hours Support Available
Thank You!
 getstreamline.com
                         WHITE CITY
                         COUNCIL MEETING
                         AUGUST 1, 2024, 6:00 PM
                         WHITE CITY WATER IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
                         999 E GALENA DRIVE, WHITE CITY, UTAH 84094


                         WHITE CITY COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES

Council Members Present:
Paulina Flint, Mayor
Linda Price
Phillip Cardenaz
Greg Shelton
Tyler Huish

Staff Present:
Paul Ashton, Legal Counsel
Rori Andreason, Administrator
Nichole Watt, Salt Lake County Deputy Clerk
Nicole Smedley, Municipal Services District Council Clerk/Recorder
Morgan Julian, Municipal Services District Long Range Planner II

Others Present:
Chief Aldridge, Unified Fire Authority (via Zoom)
Detective Smith, Unified Police Department
Chief Thomas, Unified Police Department
Chief McConaghie, Sandy city Fire

6:00 PM – Workshop
1. Discussion/Clarification of Agenda Items
2. Discuss Future Agenda Items
3. Close Workshop Meeting

      No topics were discussed during the workshop portion of the meeting.

BUSINESS MEETING

1. Welcome and Determine Quorum

       Mayor Flint, presiding, called the meeting to order at 6:00 PM. A quorum was present
   allowing the meeting to proceed.

2. Unified Fire Authority Report



                             WHITE CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS
                     MAYOR PAULINA FLINT, COUNCIL MEMBER LINDA PRICE,
              COUNCIL MEMBER PHILLIP CARDENAZ, COUNCIL MEMBER GREG SHELTON,
                              COUNCIL MEMBER TYLER HUISH
       Chief Aldridge stated that fire season remains active in Utah and on the Wasatch Front.
He reported that all July fires were treated early and quickly contained. Additionally, Chief
Aldridge stated that recent focus has been on wildfire suppression efforts, easing increased
workloads with the additional summer wildfires, and recruitment efforts moving forward with
175 candidates.

3. Unified Police Department Report

        Detective Smith reported that July crime numbers were favorable, showing a lower
range overall although there was an increase in domestic situations. He reported that the
individuals involved in those types of incidents are receiving the necessary resources to help
them overcome them. Detective Smith also noted recent speeding and traffic issues on Sego
Lily Drive. He stated that officers were aware of the construction zone conditions on Sego Lily
and are cognizant and working to address these issues. He stated that the speed trailer has
been placed on Poppy Lane to monitor and manage southbound traffic.

       Chief Thomas stated that Unified Police Department has launched a new website that
allows citizens to report certain types of non-emergency crimes online. He stated that this
includes an option to either manually type in a report or have it transcribed from voice. He
reported that the online reports go into a queue that the police department can triage and
process, which is expected to reduce call volume to the department by up to 30%.

       Additionally, he reported that the new system also includes interactive crime maps that
show real-time data, rather than outdated 30-day old maps, which allows citizens to view crime
data for their own jurisdiction or across the region.

        Mayor Flint mentioned that the city plans to do more outreach to educate the public on
how to use the new online reporting system, and it will be featured in the September newsletter
for the United Police Department agencies.

4. Public Comments

       Karolyn Kelsen, residing on Sego Lily Drive, brought up concerns regarding the issues
of speeding on Sego Lily. Discussion ensued regarding more lights, the construction project
mitigating speeding upon completion, and adding more speed trailers.

       Sara Cimmers, a resident of South Jordan, addressed the Council and introduced
herself as the Democratic candidate for Utah State Legislature District 45, representing the
south side of White City.

        Marc Perry, a resident of Carnation Drive, addressed the Council regarding concerns
about double driveways and a speed bump on Carnation Drive. He stated that the speed bump
is ineffective, as motorists swerve to the side of it due to its flat surface, often driving into his
gutter to bypass the speed bump.

5. Action/Discussion Items



                          White City • White City, Utah 84108 • 801-834-2577
5.1 Discuss Sandy Fire – Management & Operations Study

         Chief McConaghie provided an overview of the fire department's recent activities
  and operations. He reported on the fire and medical incidents responded to in July,
  including a tree fire and various calls for service. He also discussed the department's
  deployment of personnel to assist with wildfire response efforts in California, noting that
  the crews had returned after three weeks of work protecting mining facilities and homes.

         Chief McConaghie stated that the recent Management and Operations Study
  conducted for the Sandy City Fire Department provided a comprehensive assessment
  of the department's current status and outlined a roadmap for its future. He reported that
  while the study acknowledged the department’s strong culture and commitment to
  service, it highlighted operational challenges resulting from historical staffing and
  resource constraints. He explained that these issues, combined with delayed capital
  improvements, have led to inefficiencies that the department is actively working to
  address.

         Chief McConaghie reported that key areas of focus include ongoing staffing
  enhancements and the construction of a long-awaited fire station and headquarters. He
  stated that these initiatives represent significant steps toward improving operational
  capabilities. However, he explained that the study emphasized the need for the
  department to transition from a stretched, multi-specialty response organization to a
  focused, all-hazards initial response resource. This shift, he noted, would enable the
  department to operate more efficiently and effectively.

         Chief McConaghie further reported on critical facility and equipment needs. He
  explained that while progress is being made with the replacement of Station 31, many
  other facilities require updates to meet modern standards and accommodate current
  operations. He stated that compliance with safety standards for equipment storage and
  improvements to infrastructure are essential priorities.

          Additionally, Chief McConaghie explained that the department continues to align
  its services with community expectations, as evidenced by the prioritization of medical
  response, fire suppression, and wildland fire mitigation based on stakeholder feedback.
  He reported that the department is also proactively addressing wildfire risks through
  participation in the Utah Community Wildfire Preparedness Plan, which ensures
  readiness for increasing urban-wildland interface challenges.

         Chief McConaghie stated that the study recommended adopting a more
  ambitious and visionary strategic plan, addressing long-term funding limitations, and
  implementing targeted upgrades to staffing and equipment. He explained that this
  comprehensive approach would position the Sandy City Fire Department to not only
  meet current demands but also anticipate and adapt to future needs.




                    White City • White City, Utah 84108 • 801-834-2577
            In conclusion, Chief McConaghie expressed that while challenges remain, the
     department is on a promising path forward. He stated that with the continued support of
     the City Council, the Sandy City Fire Department will build upon its strengths to
     enhance the safety and well-being of the community. He thanked the Council for the
     opportunity to present the findings and recommendations of the study and expressed
     his commitment to working collaboratively to implement these improvements.

     5.2 Discussion and Possible Action regarding Options for Supplemental Cleanup
     for White City

             Council Member Shelton provided an update on the council's previous discussion
     regarding additional community cleanup options. He shared recommendations from the
     Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District (WFWRD), noting that additional services
     could not be added during the usual Seasonal Container Reservation Program (SCRP).
     Council Member Shelton reported that WFWRD could offer vouchers, though this option
     is already available. He recommended trailers or containers parked at a central location
     for one day with pricing by the ton as the most effective way to meet residents’
     expectations. He stated that this option would allow flexibility in determining the number
     of dumpster trailers needed and their placement at a centralized location such as Big
     Bear Park. He stated that this supplemental program would require additional funding.

            The council discussed related topics, including the tonnage report for White City,
     the waitlist for SCRP, the potential for a priority list for residents who did not receive a
     dumpster in previous years in SCRP, and concerns about neighbors not wanting to take
     on the liability for items others dispose of in shared dumpsters. They also discussed
     offering residents the ability to pay a discounted rate for individual trailers on their own.

            Mayor Flint expressed a preference for placing dumpsters at every fourth or fifth
     house, as was done in previous cleanup efforts. The council requested that Council
     Member Shelton present their suggestions to WFWRD as a possible fifth option and
     report back in September.

6. ADMINISTRATOR REPORT

    Rori Andreason expressed gratitude for Nichole Watt and her services as Clerk for the
  Council.

7. COUNCIL REPORTS

  7.1 Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District/Council of Governments

             Mayor Flint reported that the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD)
     has adopted an updated Human Resources policy to comply with state and federal
     guidelines. She also noted that the MSD has implemented a dress code policy. Mayor
     Flint informed the council that remodeling bids for the new office space have been
     received. Additionally, she announced that the White City newsletter has been



                        White City • White City, Utah 84108 • 801-834-2577
        distributed to residents and that the MSD is also producing a newsletter. She invited
        council members to contact her with any items they would like included in the MSD
        newsletter.

  7.2 Unified Fire Authority (UFA)/Unified Fire Service Area (UFSA)

               Council Member Huish stated that the Unified Fire Authority approved a property
        tax increase that will be about $12- $22 dollars annually for residents.

  7.3     Mosquito Abatement/Salt Lake County Animal Control

               Council Member Price stated that West Nile virus was detected in positive pools
        in Draper and Riverton and is expected to spread. She advised people to take
        precautions, such as wearing long sleeves and pants in the early morning and evening.

               Council Member Price reported that Salt Lake Animal Control is preparing to fill a
        new position and is increasing efforts to publicize animal licensing. It was also reported
        that the department is nearing the opening of a new mobile animal clinic and is
        exploring the purchase of an additional outbuilding to provide more kennel space, as the
        current facilities are at capacity.

  7.4 Unified Police Department (UPD)/Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area
    (SLVLESA)

              Council Member Cardenaz reported that during the last Unified Police
        Department (UPD) meeting, two Chief appointments were made. Additionally, April
        Morse was recognized for her contributions while serving as Acting Division of
        Operations.

               Council Member Cardenaz reported that the Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement
        Service Area (SLVLESA) conducted training on the Public and Open Meetings Act and
        reviewed the proposed tax numbers that SLVLESA plans to request for members at the
        end of the year.

  7.5 Wasatch Front Waste & Recycling District (WFWRD)

                Council Member Shelton reported that the Wasatch Front Waste & Recycling
        District requested a one-year extension on the audit, allowing the use of the same
        auditing service for three consecutive years. This extension was granted due to the loss
        of the district’s financial director, providing additional time to fill the position. It was also
        noted that the district will be proposing a fee increase.

8. Closed Sessions if Needed as Allowed Under Utah Code Ann. 52-4-205

9. Adjourn




                            White City • White City, Utah 84108 • 801-834-2577
      Council Member Huish, Seconded by Council Member Cardenaz, motioned to
adjourn. The motion passed unanimously.

      Mayor Flint declared the meeting to be adjourned at 8:47 pm.

Approved by the City Council the 5th day of December, 2024:




                                                       Paulina Flint, Mayor


ATTEST:



Nicole Smedley
City Recorder




                       White City • White City, Utah 84108 • 801-834-2577
                                        WHITE CITY, UTAH

                                   RESOLUTION NO. 2 0 2 4 - 1 2 - 0 1

A RESOLUTION OF THE WHITE CITY COUNCIL APPROVING THE UPGRADE OF THE
CURRENT WEBSITE AND CONTRACTING WITH STREAMLINE FOR WEBSITE DESIGN
AND MAINTENANCE SERVICES

WHEREAS, the White City Council recognizes the importance of clear, effective, and accessible
communication with the community; and

WHEREAS, the current city website does not adequately meet the needs of the community in terms of
user-friendliness, accessibility, and provision of up-to-date and informative content; and

WHEREAS, the Council has prioritized upgrading the city’s website to better serve the residents, enhance
transparency, and streamline communication; and

WHEREAS, a fair and transparent procurement process has been conducted in accordance with applicable
laws and regulations to select a provider for website design and maintenance services; and

WHEREAS, after careful review of the proposals, the Council has determined that Streamline offers the
best solution to meet the City’s needs for a modern, user-friendly, and well-maintained website;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF WHITE CITY,
UTAH:

Section 1.    The Council hereby approves the selection of Streamline as the contractor for the design,
development, and maintenance of the new website, and authorized the Mayor to execute all necessary
agreements with Streamline, subject to legal review, to proceed with the website upgrade and ongoing
maintenance services.

Section 2.    This resolution shall take effect immediately upon its adoption.

APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 5th day of December 2024.




                                                   BY:     Paulina F. Flint, Mayor
ATTEST:

                                                             APPROVED AS TO FORM:
_______________________________
Nicole Smedley
Recorder
                                                           __________________________
VOTING:
Mayor Flint                         ____                     PAUL H. ASHTON
Council Member Shelton              ____                     CITY ATTORNEY
Council Member Price                ____
Council Member Cardenaz             ____
Council Member Huish                ____
                                                                                                        (916) 900-6619
                                                                                               info@getstreamline.com
                                                                                               www.getstreamline.com
                                                                         3301 C Street #1000, Sacramento, CA 95816


Streamline Platform - Subscription Agreement

CUSTOMER: White City                                                                       ORDER DATE: 11 / 14 / 2024


This Software as a Service Agreement (“Agreement”) is entered into on the start date listed below, between Streamline
(DBA of Digital Deployment, Inc.) with a place of business at 3301 C Street #1000, Sacramento, CA 95816
(“Company”), and the Customer listed above (“Customer”). This Agreement incorporates the Streamline Terms of
Service. W9 is available online. Most customers prefer annual billing for convenience, but all subscriptions are
cancellable anytime with a written 30-day notice.

DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES: See Page 2 for an overview of what Streamline Web includes, and for more information
please review our subscription-based website toolkit for local government .


SUBSCRIPTION ORDER:


 Name                                                                                                          Price

 Operations Pro                                                                                              $800.00



     One-Time Build Costs:      $1500                                          Order #:      28979065872
         Invoice Frequency:     Monthly                                  Original Order?     Original
                                N/A
  Additional Billing Details:
                                                                     Billing Start Date:     02/01/2024


Paying with check?
Mail the check to: PO Box 207561, Dallas, TX 753207561


   Billing Person:                                                   Phone:
 Billing Address:                                                    Email:
  City, State, Zip:


Streamline:                                                 Customer:
Name:                                                       Name:
Title:                                                      Title:
Date:                                                       Date:
Signature:                                                  Signature:




                                                    Page 1 of 3
                                        (916) 900-6619
                                info@getstreamline.com
                                www.getstreamline.com
              3301 C Street #1000, Sacramento, CA 95816




Page 2 of 3
                                                                                                       (916) 900-6619
                                                                                               info@getstreamline.com
                                                                                               www.getstreamline.com
                                                                         3301 C Street #1000, Sacramento, CA 95816




What Your Subscription Includes


                       •    Easy-to-use website tool allows you to control your content - no more waiting on a
                            vendor or IT.
                       •    Built-in ADA compliance (the platform is fully accessible out of the “box”).
                       •    State-specific transparency dashboard with checkpoints for all posting requirements.
 Technology            •    Meeting dashboard with agenda reminders, one-click agenda and minute upload that
                            takes seconds.
                       •    Ongoing improvements to existing features included at no cost - your software will
                            never be out of date.




                        •   Multiple options for initial site build and migrating existing content.
                        •   Introduction to your state requirements so you know what needs to be posted.
                        •   Training for anyone on your staff via remote meeting to help you learn the system.
                        •   Free domain included (acmemud.specialdistrict.org) or connect your own custom
 Setup and                  domain / web address.
  Training              •   Free SSL security certificate so that your site is served over https and visitors are
                            protected.




                        •   Unlimited support is included for anyone on your staff responsible for updating the
                            website.
                        •   Support system is built into your website - get help with the click of a button.
                        •   Unlimited hosting of content and files so you never have to “upgrade” your account.
  Ongoing               •   Extensive knowledge base of how-to articles and getting started guides are available
                            24/7.
  Support
                        •   Can’t figure out how to send your question? That’s ok, you’ll have our technical
                            support number, too.




 And if (when) your state passes additional website mandates, Streamline Web will be updated to help you
 comply as effortlessly as possible.




                                                    Page 3 of 3
12/1/24, 1:35 PM                                    Streamline Terms of Service




                                                                                   Contact Us




     Streamline Terms
     Related to the use of Streamline software. To learn more about the plans offered by
     Streamline, including indemnification levels, please see our Plans page.




     Streamline™ Terms of Service
     Would you like to be notified when our Terms of Service change? Subscribe to Terms of Services
     updates >



     THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS CONTAINED HEREIN (“AGREEMENT”) APPLY TO
     ALL USE OF THE HOSTED SERVICES PROVIDED BY STREAMLINE SOFTWARE,
     INC. (“STREAMLINE”) TO YOU AND THE ORGANIZATION YOU REPRESENT
     (TOGETHER, “CUSTOMER”). BY ACCESSING OR USING ANY OF STREAMLINE’S
     SERVICES OR

     SOFTWARE, CUSTOMER AGREES TO ALL OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF
     THIS AGREEMENT. THIS AGREEMENT WILL BE DEEMED EFFECTIVE ON THE
     DATE IT IS AGREED TO BY CUSTOMER AS PART OF THE ORDER PROCESS – AS
     DEFINED IN SECTION 1 BELOW) (“EFFECTIVE DATE”). IN THE EVENT THERE IS A
     SEPARATELY NEGOTIATED AND EXECUTED MASTER AGREEMENT BETWEEN
     STREAMLINE AND CUSTOMER WITH RESPECT TO PROCUREMENT OF THE



https://www.getstreamline.com/streamline-terms                                                        1/14
12/1/24, 1:35 PM                                 Streamline Terms of Service

     SERVICES OR SOFTWARE, SUCH AGREEMENT SHALL CONTROL AND THIS
     AGREEMENT WILL NOT APPLY.                          Contact Us




     1. THE SERVICE
     1.1. Provision of the Service. Subject to all the terms of this Agreement, Streamline
     grants Customer the non-sublicensable, non-transferrable, nonexclusive, limited right to
     remotely access and use the service described in the Order Process (as defined below)
     and any associated materials provided or made available (e.g. online) by Streamline
     (such as documentation) (collectively, the “Service”) - but only for Customer’s own
     business purposes. The “Order Process” is Streamline’s online order process (or a
     schedule, statement of work and/or other ordering document executed by the parties).
     All activity under the Agreement shall be strictly in accordance with and subject to
     Streamline’s applicable usage documentation (if any) (“Documentation”).

     1.2. Services Levels. Streamline will use commercially reasonable efforts to ensure the
     Service is substantially operational on a 24/7 basis (subject to downtime for scheduled
     maintenance, emergency maintenance, and matters beyond Streamline’s reasonable
     control).


     1.3. General Restrictions. Customer shall not (and shall not allow any third party to):
     (a) rent, lease, copy, provide access to or sublicense the Service to a third party (except
     contractors acting on Customer’s behalf – and Customer is fully responsible and liable
     for their breach of this Agreement); (b) use the Service to help develop any competitive
     product or service, (c) use the Service for the benefit of any third party, (d) reverse
     engineer, decompile, disassemble, or otherwise seek to obtain the source code to any
     of any part of the Service, (e) modify or create derivatives of the Service or any other
     materials provided by Streamline, or (f) remove or obscure any proprietary or other
     notices contained in the Service or documentation provided by Streamline.


     1.4. Customer’s Third-Party Services. The Service will enable Customer to send
     Customer Data (as defined in Section 2.1 below) to and from different third-party
     products, services, sources, and destinations (“Third-Party Services”). Customer’s use
     of any Third-Party Services is subject to Customer’s separate agreement with the
     provider. Customer is responsible for selecting and configuring the Third-Party Services
https://www.getstreamline.com/streamline-terms                                                     2/14
12/1/24, 1:35 PM                                  Streamline Terms of Service

     it chooses to use with the Service and for any exchange of Customer Data it enables
     through the Service. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, Streamline is not Us
                                                                             Contact
     responsible for any Third-Party Services used by Customer with the Service, their code
     or technology, or how the providers use or protect Customer Data. For clarity,
     Streamline has no liability or obligation under the separate agreement between
     Customer and the applicable third-party provider.

     1.5. Feedback. Notwithstanding anything else, Customer grants Streamline a
     perpetual, irrevocable, royalty free, paid-up, sub-licensable, right and license to use,
     display, reproduce, distribute and otherwise exploit Feedback for any purposes.
     Streamline agrees that (i) Customer does not have to provide Feedback, and (ii) all
     Feedback is provided “AS IS”. “Feedback” means all suggestions for improvement or
     enhancement, recommendations, comments, opinions or other feedback provided by
     Customer (whether in oral, electronic or written form) to Streamline for the Service.




     2. CUSTOMER DATA

     2.1. Generally. “Customer Data” means all data provided by Customer or its systems
     or providers to Streamline. As between the parties, Customer shall retain all right, title
     and interest in the Customer Data. Subject to the terms of this Agreement, Customer
     hereby grants to Streamline a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free right to use, copy,
     store, transmit, modify, create derivative works of and display the Customer Data to the
     extent necessary to provide the Service to Customer. Streamline will not sell, distribute,
     or otherwise provide any Customer Data to any third party (but data will be stored and
     processed by Streamline’s services providers to the extent acting on Streamline’s behalf
     hereunder and provided that Streamline is fully liable for their breach of this Agreement.
     Customer represents and warrants that (i) it has all rights and authorization to provide
     the Customer Data, (ii) the provision of Customer Data, and Streamline’s use of the
     data as authorized hereunder, is allow by Customer’s privacy policy, and (iii) Customer’s
     provision, use and maintenance of Customer Data complies with all laws, regulations
     and third-party rights. For clarity, Customer is fully responsible for ensuring that its end
     users agree to a Customer privacy policy that allows for such information to be used
     hereunder.


https://www.getstreamline.com/streamline-terms                                                      3/14
12/1/24, 1:35 PM                                     Streamline Terms of Service




     2.2. Security. Streamline will implement and maintain a reasonable information security
                                                                            Contact Us
     program with administrative, physical, and technical safeguards designed to help
     protect the integrity of Customer Data.

     2.3. Aggregate and Deidentified Data. Streamline will have an irrevocable, perpetual
     right to retain and internally use any Customer Data in an aggregated and deidentified
     form to internally improve its products and services (such as training algorithms).




     3. CUSTOMER CONTENT.


     3.1. Customer’s Own Content. Customer is responsible for all materials, information,
     photos, and content ("Content") uploaded, posted or stored through its use of the
     Service. Customer grants Streamline a worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license to
     host, display, and use any Content provided through Customer’s use of the Service. If
     Customer shares Content in a manner designed to be shared with other Service users,
     Customer acknowledges and agrees to such sharing. Customer should archive its
     Content frequently. Streamline is not responsible for any lost, damaged, or
     unrecoverable Content. Customer also acknowledges that Streamline is not responsible
     or liable with respect to Customer’s use of, or access to, any Content provided by other
     users.
     Customer agrees not to use, nor permit any third party to use, the Service to upload,
     post, distribute, link to, publish, reproduce, engage in or transmit any of the following:

          Illegal, fraudulent, defamatory, obscene, pornographic, profane, threatening,
          abusive, hateful, harassing, offensive, inappropriate or objectionable information or
          communications of any kind, including without limitation conduct that would
          encourage "flaming" others, or criminal or civil liability under any local, state, federal
          or foreign law;

          Content that would impersonate someone else or falsely represent Customer’s (or
          any person’s) identity or qualifications, or that constitutes a breach of any individual’s
          privacy;

          Except as permitted by Streamline in writing, investment opportunities, solicitations,
          chain letters, pyramid schemes, other unsolicited commercial communication or
https://www.getstreamline.com/streamline-terms                                                         4/14
12/1/24, 1:35 PM                                    Streamline Terms of Service

          engage in spamming or flooding;
                                                                                Contact
          Virus, trojan horse, worm or other disruptive or harmful software or data; andUs

          Any information, software or content which is not legally Customer’s and without
          legally sufficient permission from the copyright owner or intellectual property rights
          owner.

     3.2. Monitoring Customer’s Content. Streamline may, but has no obligation to,
     monitor content on the Service. Streamline may disclose any information necessary to
     satisfy its legal obligations, protect Streamline or its customers, or operate the Service
     properly. Streamline, in its sole discretion and by providing written notice to Customer,
     may refuse to post, remove, or refuse to remove, any Content, in whole or in part,
     alleged to be unacceptable, undesirable, inappropriate, or in violation of this Agreement.


     3.3. Community Forums. The Service may include a community forum or other social
     features to exchange content and information with other users of the Service and the
     public. Streamline does not support and is not responsible for the content in these
     community forums. Customer is responsible for all its interactions with, and its use of
     content from, any other community users. Customer should not reveal information that it
     does not want to make public. Users may post hypertext links to content of third parties
     for which Streamline is not responsible.




     4. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
     No intellectual property rights are assigned or transferred by Streamline hereunder.




     5. FEES AND PAYMENT

     5.1. Fees and Payment. All fees are as set forth on Streamline’s website (or as
     otherwise agreed to by Streamline and Customer in writing). Fees are payable when
     due. If Customer has provided Streamline with a credit card or bank account number,

https://www.getstreamline.com/streamline-terms                                                     5/14
12/1/24, 1:35 PM                                   Streamline Terms of Service

     Customer hereby authorizes Streamline (or its third party payment processor) to charge
     such card or account for all fees owed. If Customer pays in advance forContact
                                                                               usage-based
                                                                                         Us
     pricing, and then exceeds such usage, Streamline will invoice Customer for the excess
     usage on a pro rata basis for the remainder of the term. Streamline may adjust the fees
     charged to Customer hereunder on notice at any time. If Customer does not want to
     agree to any fee increase, its sole remedy, and Streamline’s exclusive liability, is to
     terminate this Agreement on notice (or by canceling Customer’s Service account via the
     functionality provided therein). If Customer disagrees with an invoice, it must notify
     Streamline within thirty (30) days from receipt of the invoice – or it is deemed final.
     Streamline’s fees are exclusive of all taxes and other governmental assessments.
     Customer is responsible for all of the foregoing - other than taxes based on the income
     of Streamline.

     5.2. Late Payments. In the event of late payments, Customer agrees to pay interest at
     the rate of one and one-half percent (1.5%) per month (or the maximum rate permitted
     by applicable law, whichever is less). In addition, Customer will reimburse Streamline
     for all costs of collection (including attorneys’ fees). If Customer's account is thirty (30)
     days or more overdue, in addition to any of its other rights or remedies, Streamline
     reserves the right to suspend Customer’s access to the Service, with or without notice,
     without liability to Customer until such amounts are paid in full.




     6. TERM AND TERMINATION

     6.1. Term. This Agreement will begin on the Effective Date and will have the
     subscription term selected by Customer in the Order Process (“Subscription Term”). The
     Subscription Term will automatically renew for successive renewal terms of equal length
     to the initial Subscription Term, unless: (i) Customer cancels its Service account via the
     account functionality prior to the renewal date, or (ii) this Agreement is otherwise
     terminated as set out herein.
     6.2. Termination. Streamline may terminate this Agreement and the Subscription Term
     at any time, with or without notice; provided that, if such termination is in the middle of a
     Subscription Term and termination if not for Customer’s breach, Streamline will refund
     all fees paid in advance for the remainder of the Subscription Term. Customer shall

https://www.getstreamline.com/streamline-terms                                                       6/14
12/1/24, 1:35 PM                                  Streamline Terms of Service

     have the right to receive a written explanation of the reason for termination. In addition,
     either party may terminate this Agreement if the other party (a) fails to cure  any material
                                                                                Contact  Us
     breach of this Agreement (including a failure to pay fees) within thirty (30) days after
     written notice (such notice must contain sufficient detail as to the nature of the breach
     and state the intent to terminate); (b) ceases operation without a successor; or (c) seeks
     protection under, or is subject to, any bankruptcy, receivership or comparable
     proceeding.


     6.3. Effect of Termination. Upon any expiration or termination of this Agreement, (i)
     Customer shall immediately cease any and all use of and access to the Service and (ii)
     Customer will return to Streamline (or destroy at the Streamline’s request) its
     Confidential Information (subject to Section 6.4 below). In the event this Agreement is
     terminated by Customer for Streamline’s uncured breach as authorized in Section 6.2,
     Streamline will promptly refund to Customer all fees paid in advance for the remainder
     of the term. Except as expressly set forth in the preceding sentence, all fees are non-
     refundable and non-cancellable.
     Customer Data. During the thirty (30) days period immediately following expiration or
     termination of this Agreement, Streamline will, on request, provide Customer with a
     copy of its Customer Data (in a format reasonably requested).

     6.4. Survival. The following Sections shall survive any expiration or termination of this
     Agreement: 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 2.3, 5 (with respect to outstanding payment obligations), 6,
     7.3, 8, 9 and 11.




     7. WARRANTIES; DISCLAIMER

     7.1. Mutual Warranties. Each party represents and warrants that (i) it has all right,
     power, and authority to execute this Agreement and perform hereunder, (ii) its activities
     in connection with this Agreement will not violate any laws or regulations, and (iii) its
     performance will not conflict with an obligations it has to any third party.

     7.2. Services Warranties. Streamline warrants, for Customer’s benefit only, that the
     Services will operate in conformity, in all material respects, with the applicable
     Documentation. Streamline does not warrant that Customer’s use of the Service will be
https://www.getstreamline.com/streamline-terms                                                      7/14
12/1/24, 1:35 PM                                 Streamline Terms of Service

     uninterrupted or error-free. Streamline’s sole liability (and Customer’s sole and
     exclusive remedy) for any breach of this warranty shall be, in Streamline’  sole discretion
                                                                               Contact Us
     and at no charge to Customer, to use commercially reasonable efforts to provide
     Customer with an error correction or work-around that corrects the reported non-
     conformity, or if Streamline determines such remedies to be impracticable, to allow
     Customer to terminate the Subscription Term and receive as its sole remedy a refund of
     any fees Customer has pre-paid for use of the Service or as of the date of the warranty
     claim. The limited warranty set forth in this Section 2 shall not apply: (i) unless
     Customer makes a claim within thirty (30) days of the date on which the condition giving
     rise to the claim first appeared, (ii) if the error was caused by misuse, unauthorized
     modifications or third-party hardware, software or services, or (iii) if the Service is
     provided on a no-charge or evaluation basis. This Section 7.2 will not apply if the
     Services are provided on a beta, evaluation, or otherwise free basis.


     7.3. Disclaimer; Limitation on Liability.
     EXCEPT AS SET FORTH IN SECTION 7.1, THE SERVICE IS PROVIDED “AS IS” AND
     STREAMLINE DISCLAIMS (ON BEHALF OF ITSELF AND ITS PARTNERS AND
     PROVIDERS) ALL OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,
     INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
     MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
     IF STREAMLINE OR THE SERVICES PROVIDE ANY OUTPUT OR ADVICE (SUCH
     AS ADVICE ON COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS OR REGULATIONS REGARDING WEB
     ACCESSIBILITY), SUCH OUTPUT AND ADVICE IS PROVIDED “AS IS”.
      STREAMLINE IS NOT CUSTOMER’S LEGAL COUNSEL.
     STREAMLINE SHALL NOT LIABLE, UNDER ANY LEGAL OR EQUITABLE THEORY
     OF LAW, WITH RESPECT TO ANY SUBJECT MATTER OF THIS AGREEMENT FOR
     ANY: (I) INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, RELIANCE OR CONSEQUENTIAL
     DAMAGES OF ANY KIND (INCLUDING LOST PROFITS), EVEN IF INFORMED OF
     THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES IN ADVANCE, (II) AMOUNTS IN THE
     AGGREGATE IN EXCESS OF THE FEES PAID BY CUSTOMER TO STREAMLINE
     DURING THE IMMEDIATELY PRECEDING SIX (6) MONTH PERIOD (OR, IF NO
     AMOUNTS HAVE BEEN PAID, SUCH AMOUNT SHALL BE US$1,000.00), OR (III)
     THE COST OF PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE TECHNOLOGY OR SERVICES.
     STREAMLINE’S PARTNERS AND PROVIDERS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY IN
     CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT.

https://www.getstreamline.com/streamline-terms                                                     8/14
12/1/24, 1:35 PM                                   Streamline Terms of Service

     IF STREAMLINE OR THE SERVICES PROVIDE ANY OUTPUT OR ADVICE (SUCH
     AS ADVICE ON COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS OR REGULATIONS REGARDING       WEB
                                                             Contact Us
     ACCESSIBILITY), STREAMLINE HAS NO LIABILITY WITH RESPECT TO
     CUSTOMER’S USE OR RELIANCE ON SUCH OUTPUT OR ADVICE.




     8. INDEMNIFICATION


     8.1 Streamline shall indemnify and hold harmless Customer from and against any third
     party claim: (i) that the website operated by Customer in association with the Service
     violates the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) (or any similar federal, state, or local
     web accessibility regulations in any jurisdictions within the United States of America)
     due to a failure of the Service to provide proper regulatory compliance guidance, (ii) that
     the Service (as provided by Streamline) infringes any patent, copyright, or trademark, or
     (iii) that Streamline violates any laws or regulations.

     8.2 Streamline’s indemnity obligations are contingent on Customer providing Streamline
     with: (i) prompt written notice of such claim (but in any event notice in sufficient time for
     Streamline to respond without prejudice); (ii) the exclusive right to control and direct the
     investigation, defense, or settlement (if applicable) of such claim; and (iii) all reasonable
     necessary cooperation of Customer.

     8.3 Section 8.1(i) will not apply to any issues with Customer’s website that could have
     been avoided if Customer had followed any advice or best practices provided via the
     Service. In addition, Section 8.1(i) will only apply to a particular claim to the extent such
     outstanding items and tasks on the “Accessibility Dashboard” forming the basis of such
     claim were completed at the time of the alleged visit to the website by the plaintiff or
     complaining party.


     With respect to Section 8.1(ii), if Customer’s use of the Service is, or in Streamline’s
     opinion is likely to be, enjoined due to the type of infringement specified above, or if
     required by settlement, Streamline may, in its sole discretion: (a) substitute substantially
     functionally similar products or services; (b) procure for Customer the right to continue
     using the Service; or if (a) and (b) are commercially impracticable, (c) terminate the
     Agreement and Streamline will promptly refund to Customer all fees paid in advance for
     the remainder of the term. The foregoing indemnification obligation of Streamline shall
https://www.getstreamline.com/streamline-terms                                                       9/14
12/1/24, 1:35 PM                                   Streamline Terms of Service

     not apply: (1) if the Service is modified by any party other than Streamline, but solely to
     the extent the alleged infringement is caused by such modification; (2) ifContact
                                                                                the Service
                                                                                        Us is
     combined with other services or processes not authorized by Streamline, but solely to
     the extent the alleged infringement is caused by such combination; (3) to any
     unauthorized use of the Service; or (4) any action arising as a result of Customer Data
     or any third-party deliverables or components contained within the Service.

     8.4 Indemnification Coverage. Streamline’s indemnification obligations will be limited to
     the monetary amounts set forth at www.getstreamline.com/pricing (according to the
     specific tier purchased by Customer) provided that such amounts are applicable to the
     indemnification obligations described in this Agreement. In the event of a class actions
     (or similar) lawsuit, the cap will apply to all claims in the aggregate (not on an individual
     basis).




     9. CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
     Each party agrees that all business and technical information it obtains (“Receiving
     Party”) from the disclosing party (“Disclosing Party”) constitute the confidential property
     of the Disclosing Party (“Confidential Information”), provided that it is identified as
     confidential at the time of disclosure or should be reasonably known by the Receiving
     Party to be Confidential Information due to the nature of the information disclosed and
     the circumstances surrounding the disclosure. All fees and pricing information will be
     Streamline’s Confidential Information. Except as expressly authorized herein, the
     Receiving Party will, using reasonable measures, hold in confidence and not use or
     disclose any Confidential Information. In addition, all confidential information from
     Streamline’s partners or providers will, as between Streamline and Customer, be
     Streamline’s Confidential Information. The Receiving Party’s nondisclosure obligation
     shall not apply to information which the Receiving Party can document: (i) was rightfully
     in its possession or known to it prior to receipt of the Confidential Information; (ii) is or
     has become public knowledge through no fault of the Receiving Party, or (iii) is required
     to be disclosed by law. If required to be disclosed by law, the Receiving Party will
     immediately notify the Disclosing Party and use its best efforts to limit the extent of the
     disclosure. The Receiving Party acknowledges that disclosure of Confidential
     Information would cause substantial harm for which damages alone would not be a
     sufficient remedy, and therefore that upon any such disclosure by the Receiving Party
https://www.getstreamline.com/streamline-terms                                                       10/14
12/1/24, 1:35 PM                                    Streamline Terms of Service

     the Disclosing Party shall be entitled to appropriate equitable relief (without the posting
     of a bond or similar instrument) in addition to whatever other remedies itContact
                                                                                  might have
                                                                                         Us at
     law.

     The Parties further acknowledge that Customer is a public agency subject to the
     California Public
     Records Act (Gov. Code, § 7920.000 et seq.). In the event of litigation initiated against
     Customer
     seeking disclosure of Confidential Information subject to this Agreement, Streamline
     agrees to
     indemnify Customer from and against all costs that the Customer incurs in connection
     with such
     litigation, including but not limited to, attorneys’ fees, legal fees, and court costs.




     10. LOGO USE
     Customer agrees that Streamline may use of Customer’s name and logo on
     Streamline’s website and in Streamline promotional materials as part of a general list of
     customers. Any other marketing or promotion use is subject to Customer’s written
     approval (email is sufficient).




     11. GENERAL TERMS
     11.1. Assignment. Customer will not assign or transfer this Agreement without
     Streamline’s written consent, except that it may assign this Agreement in connection
     with a merger, reorganization, acquisition or other transfer of all or substantially all of its
     assets or voting securities (provided that the successor is not a competitor of
     Streamline). Streamline may freely assign this Agreement, provided that Customer
     receives advance written notice of any such assignment. Any attempt to transfer or
     assign this Agreement except as expressly authorized under this Section 11.1 will be
     null and void.

     11.2. Force Majeure. Streamline will not be liable for any delay or failure to perform
     any obligation under this Agreement (except for a failure to pay fees) if the delay or
     failure is due to events which are beyond the reasonable control of Streamline, such as

https://www.getstreamline.com/streamline-terms                                                         11/14
12/1/24, 1:35 PM                                     Streamline Terms of Service

     a strike, blockade, war, act of terrorism, pandemic, riot, natural disaster, failure or
     diminishment of telecommunications, or refusal of a license by a government agency.
                                                                            Contact Us

     11.3. Governing Law; Jurisdiction. This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of
     the state in which the Customer is primarily located, without regard to conflicts of law
     provisions thereof, and without regard to the United Nations Convention on the
     International Sale of Goods. The jurisdiction and venue for actions related to the subject
     matter hereof shall be the courts located such state and both parties hereby submit to
     the personal jurisdiction of such courts.


     11.4. Third-Party Beneficiaries. To the extent Streamline provides Customer with any
     products provided (in whole or part) by Streamline’s own partners or providers, the
     terms of this Agreement will apply to such offering (unless Customer has a separate
     agreement with the partner/provider as contemplated by Section 1.4 above). Such
     partners and providers of Streamline are third-party beneficiaries to this Agreement (as
     necessary to protect their intellectual property, confidential information, or liability).

     11.5. Notice. All notices to Customer may be provided by Streamline via email or
     account notification. Any legal notices to Streamline must be sent to Streamline
     Software, Inc., 3301 C Street Suite 1000 Sacramento, CA 95816. In addition, legal
     notices must also be sent to legal@getstreamline.com (but, notwithstanding earlier
     receipt via email, legal notices will be deemed received as follows:
     If given by registered or certified mail, such notice shall be deemed to have been
     received on the first
     to occur of (i) actual receipt, or (ii) three (3) days after a registered or certified letter
     containing such
     notice is deposited in the United States mail. If given by Federal Express or similar
     courier, a notice
     shall be deemed to have been received on the date delivered as shown on a receipt
     issued by the
     courier.)


     11.6. Entire Agreement. This Agreement is the complete and exclusive statement of
     the mutual understanding of the parties and supersedes and cancels all previous written
     and oral agreements and communications relating to the subject matter of this
     Agreement. It may only be amended or waived in a writing executed by both parties. If

https://www.getstreamline.com/streamline-terms                                                       12/14
12/1/24, 1:35 PM                                    Streamline Terms of Service

     any provision of this Agreement shall be adjudged by any court of competent jurisdiction
     to be unenforceable or invalid, that provision shall be limited to the minimum  extent
                                                                                Contact Us
     necessary so that this Agreement shall otherwise remain in effect. This Agreement may
     be executed electronically and in counterparts (such as via DocuSign).




                   Subscribe to Streamline TOS Updates
           Thanks for submitting the form.




     About Us
     We build tools to help special districts
     with online compliance, internal operations,
     and community outreach. Our accessible
     and compliant websites, intranet software,
     and communication tools help districts
     promote the important work they do.



     Terms of Service
     Privacy Policy

     Latest Blog Articles
     Breaking Down an Overwhelming Problem into a Solvable One
     September 25, 2024


     Balancing Transparency and Compliance: Lessons from Colorado Special Districts
     September 24, 2024


     5 Things Special Districts Need to Know About the Latest DOJ Ruling
     June 26, 2024


                                                                                  Contact
https://www.getstreamline.com/streamline-terms                                               13/14
12/1/24, 1:35 PM                                 Streamline Terms of Service

                                                 3301 C Street, Suite 1000, Sacramento, CA, 95816

                                                                                          Contact Us
                                                                               General: info@getstreamline.com
                                                                          Support: support@getstreamline.com




https://www.getstreamline.com/streamline-terms                                                               14/14
                                   WHITE CITY, UTAH

                               ORDINANCE NO. 2024-O-06

         AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 2.56 OF THE WHITE CITY
            MUNICIPAL CODE REGARDING COMMUNITY COUNCILS

WHEREAS, White City is a municipality incorporated under the laws of the State of Utah
pursuant to Utah Code § 10-1-104(5)(c); and

WHEREAS, in June 2017, Chapter 2.56 – Community Council was created by the White City
Metro Township Council; and

WHEREAS, the Council desires to amend Chapter 2.56 of the White City Municipal Code
regarding Community Council.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE WHITE CITY COUNCIL AS
FOLLOWS:

       1.     The White City Council desires to amend Chapter 2.56 of the White City Municipal
Code as outlined in Attachment “A”.

       2.     This Ordinance shall take effect upon publication on the City and State Public
Notice Website.

APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the White City Council, this 5th day of December, 2024.


                                                         ______________________________
                                                         Paulina F. Flint, Mayor
ATTEST:

                                                           APPROVED AS TO FORM:
______________________________
Nicole Smedley, Clerk/Recorder
                                                           _____________________________
VOTING                                                     PAUL H. ASHTON
Mayor Flint voting                  _____                  CITY ATTORNEY
Council Member Cardenaz voting      _____
Council Member Shelton voting       _____
Council Member Huish voting         _____
Council Member Price voting         _____


                                      SUMMARY OF
                               ORDINANCE NO. 2024-O-06

       On the 5th day of December, 2024, the White City Council adopted Ordinance No. 2024-
O-06, amending Chapter 2.56 of the White City Municipal code regarding Community Councils.

A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2024-O-06 is available in the office of the Greater Salt Lake
Municipal Services District, 2001 South State Street, N3-600, Salt Lake City, Utah.
                                      “ATTACHMENT A”

Chapter 2.56 – COMMUNITY COUNCILS

2.56.010 Purpose
2.56.020 Establishment
2.56.030 Community Councils; Representation
2.56.040 Community Councils; Participation
2.56.050 Community Council Meetings
2.56.060 Community Councils; Appointment of Members
2.56.070 Community Councils; Municipal Services Recommendations
2.56.080 Community Councils; Planning and Zoning Information to the Community
Council
2.56.090 Budget
2.56.100 City Council; Participation
2.56.110 Volunteer Status; Indemnification


2.56.010 – Purpose.

        The purpose of establishing and recognizing community councils is to provide a
mechanism by which residents of the City may identify community service needs and assist the
City in facilitating those initiatives. Volunteer community councils are an effective way for cities
to maximize the benefits of volunteer service for providing needed events and programming to
the residents of the City.

2.56.020 – Establishment
        Community councils are created by private citizens as private corporations, associations
or otherwise, and are not created by the city. Privately created community councils may be
recognized by the city as provided in this chapter.

2.56.030 – Community Councils; Representation.

   A. The citizens may choose to create a community council for the purpose of serving the
      community and providing volunteer service. All members of the community councils
      shall serve without compensation. Any resident of White City may serve on such
      community council. Vacancies on a community council shall be filled in accordance
      with the community council’s bylaws. All community council meetings shall be open to
      the public.

   B. All community council bylaws, articles of incorporation, meetings, activities, elections,
      and other functions shall abide by the minimum requirements of this chapter. The
      community council will not be entitled to the various services, benefits, and status as set
      out herein.
2.56.040 – Community Councils; Participation.
       The citizens may by choice decline to create a community council under the terms of this
chapter.

2.56.050 – Community Council Meetings.
       Community councils shall conduct open and public meetings and shall permit interested
persons to attend and participate in those meetings in accordance with applicable council bylaws
and regulations.

2.56.060 – Community Councils; Appointment of Members.
       A. Members of the community council shall be appointed to the council as determined
           by the community council’s bylaws. The community council must appoint a
           Chairperson, a Treasurer, and a Secretary. These appointed members of the
           community council are responsible for the effective operation of the community
           council.

       B. Each community council member must submit a completed conflict of interest form
          and ethics form to the city council no later than January 31st of each year.

2.56.070 – Budget.

       A. The city council may appropriate funds annually for the community councils upon
          receipt of a request detailing the amount of funds requested and proposed use of said
          funds as related to the benefit the city will receive in return for the appropriated
          funds. The community council shall submit a letter requesting funding for the current
          year no later than January 31st.

       B. An accounting of the use of any appropriated funds expended during the previous
          year shall be provided to the city council by December 31st of each year in a form
          approved by the city council.

       C. The community council shall be subject to an audit of appropriated funds by the city
          each year. The city council shall determine the financial manager to conduct the
          financial audit.

2.56.080 – City Council participation.
       A. The city council shall schedule at least one meeting annually with the community
           council for the purpose of receiving recommendations on policy, budget and other
           priorities established by the community council.
       B. Members of the city council may serve on the sub-committee for the Southeast
          Township Days. However, members of the city council may not serve on the
          community council.

2.56.090 – Volunteer Status – Indemnification.
        Community council members shall be considered volunteers to the city and not
employees, officials, or officers of the city. Community council members shall be defended and
indemnified by the city council pursuant to the provisions of the Utah Governmental Immunity
Act in any civil action which may arise within the course and scope of performance of their
duties under this chapter.
                                 WHITE CITY, UTAH

                                Ordinance No. 2024-O-

   AN ORDINANCE OF WHITE CITY COUNCIL AMENDING TITLE 12 OF
    MUNICIPAL CODE, PROVISIONS ON CODE ENFORCEMENT AND
                 COMMUNITY PRESERVATION
WHEREAS, White City ("White City") adopted each county ordinance in effect at the time
of its incorporation as a Metro Township pursuant to Utah Code Ann. Subsection 10-2a-
414(3)(2023), which ordinance continued in force upon its conversion to a City, pursuant
to Utah Code Ann. § 10-1-201.5(6)(2024), and White City has authority to amend or repeal
such ordinance when it determines it is necessary; and
WHEREAS, White City is a municipality and has authority to regulate and enforce its
code pursuant to Utah Code; and
WHEREAS, White City has authority to adopt ordinances and land use controls necessary
for the use and development of land within its municipal boundaries in accordance with the
Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act, (“MLUDMA”), Title 10,
Section 9a, Utah Code, to protect public health, safety, and welfare; and
WHEREAS, the White City Council deems it necessary to amend its ordinances in order
to ensure compliance with State Statute, encourage conformity with the White City General
Plan, promote ease of use for residents and staff, and preserve the unique character of the
White City community; and for the protection and preservation of the public health, safety
and general welfare.

BE IT ORDAINED BY WHITE CITY COUNCIL as follows:
1.     Title 12 is repealed and replaced in its entirety with the revised Title 12 attached
hereto as Attachment 1.
2.     Severability. If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of these
Ordinances is unconstitutional or invalid, then such portion(s) of these Ordinances, or
specific application of these Ordinances, shall be severed from the remainder, which shall
continue in full force and effect.
3.     Implementation. White City staff are instructed to take any administrative steps
needed to prepare and finalize Attachment 1 for publication to Municode, including but not
limited
         to making any formatting, grammatical, or other non-substantive changes to the Ordinances
         that may be needed.
         4.     Posting and Effective Date. After White City staff have prepared Attachment 1
         for publication to Municode, the staff shall post the attached summary pursuant to Utah
         Code § 10-3-711(1)(b); and publish Attachment 1 to Municode. This ordinance will
         become effective as of the date the summary is posted and Attachment 1 is published to
         Municode.
         PASSED AND ADOPTED this _____ day of ______________ 2024.



                                                      ____________________________
                                                      Paulina F. Flint, Mayor

ATTEST:                                                      APPROVED:


__________________________                            _____________________________
Nicole Smedley, Clerk/Recorder                             City Attorney

Voting

Mayor Flint voting                    _____
Council Member Shelton voting         _____
Council Member Price voting           _____
Council Member Cardenaz voting        _____
Council Member Huish voting           _____




            Date ordinance summary was posted on the Utah Public Notice Website:


            Effective date of ordinance:
                               SUMMARY OF WHITE CITY
                              ORDINANCE NO. 2024- __-____

         On the ____ day of ___________, 2024 the White City Council enacted Ordinance
  No. 2024-___-___ that adopts a new and updated version of Titles 12 (Code Enforcement
  and Community Preservation) of the White City Municipal Code (“WCMC”) and repeals
  and replaces in its entirety the prior version of Title 12.



  WHITE CITY COUNCIL

 ______________________________
  Paulina F Flint, Mayor

                                                  APPROVED AS TO FORM:
  ATTEST
                                                  _________________________________
                                                  CITY ATTORNEY


  Nicole Smedley, Clerk/Recorder



  Voting:

Mayor Flint voting                 _____
Council Member Shelton voting      _____
Council Member Price voting        _____
Council Member Cardenaz voting     _____
Council Member Huish voting        _____




  A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2024-___-___ is available in the office of the
  White City Clerk, 2001 South State Street, N2-700, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Title 12 CODE ENFORCEMENT AND COMMUNITY PRESERVATION*
Chapter 12.02 General*
Chapter 12.04 Administrative Code Enforcement Procedures*
Chapter 12.06 Administrative And Judicial Remedies*
Chapter 12.08 Recover Of Code Enforcement Penalties And Costs*

Chapter 12.02 General*
12.02.010 Short Title*
12.02.020 Authority*
12.02.030 Declaration Of Purpose*
12.02.040 Scope*
12.02.050 Existing Ordinances And Laws Continued*
12.02.060 Criminal Prosecution Right*
12.02.070 Effect Of Headings*
12.02.080 Validity Of Title - Severability*
12.02.090 No Mandatory Duty - Civil Liability*
12.02.100 General Rules Of Interpretation Of Ordinances*
12.02.110 Definitions Applicable To Title Generally*
12.02.111 Acts Include Causing, Aiding And Abetting*
12.02.200 Part 2 - Service Requirements*
12.02.210 Service Of Process*
12.02.220 Construction Notice Of Recorded Documents*
12.02.300 Part 3 - General Authority And Offenses*
12.02.310 General Enforcement Authority*
12.02.320 Adoption Of Policy And Procedures*
12.02.330 Authority To Inspect*
12.02.340 Administrative Warrant Procedure
12.02.350 Power To Issue Citations *
12.02.360 False Information Or Refusal Prohibited*
12.02.370 Failure To Obey A Subpoena*

12.02.010 Short Title*

Title 12 shall be known as the "Code Enforcement and Community Preservation Program."

12.02.020 Authority*

White City promulgates this Code pursuant to Utah Code Ann. §§ 10-3-702- 703.7; 10-3-716; 10-8-60; 10-
11-1, et seq.; and 76-10-801, et seq..

12.02.030 Declaration Of Purpose*

White City finds enforcement of its Code and applicable state codes throughout the municipality to be an
important public service. Code enforcement and abatement are vital to the protection of the public's health,
safety, and quality of life. The Council recognizes that comprehensive code enforcement starts with the
drafting of precise regulations that can be effectively applied in administrative code enforcement hearings
and judicial proceedings that use a combination of judicial and administrative remedies to achieve fair and
equitable compliance, and which address the failure to comply through judicial action.
12.02.040 Scope*

The provisions of this Title may be applied to any violation of White City Code as an additional remedy to
achieve compliance.

12.02.050 Existing Ordinances And Laws Continued*

The provisions of this Title do not invalidate any other title or ordinance but shall be read in conjunction
with the title or ordinance as an additional enforcement remedy and with any other applicable laws. If there
is a conflict between this Title and another provision of White City Code, this Title shall control.

12.02.060 Criminal Prosecution Right*

White City has sole discretion in deciding whether to file a civil or criminal case or both for the violation of
any of its ordinances. The enactment of the administrative remedies in this Title shall not interfere with White
City's right to prosecute ordinance violations as criminal offenses in a court of law. White City may use
any of the remedies available under the law in both civil and criminal prosecution. If White City decides to
file both civil and criminal charges for the same day of violation, no civil penalties may be assessed, but
all other remedies will be available. White City may at its discretion proceed with a civil enforcement action
under this Title in district court without first holding an administrative hearing or exhausting other
administrative remedies.

12.02.070 Effect Of Headings*

Title, chapter, part and section headings contained herein shall not be deemed to govern, limit, modify, or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning, or intent of the provisions of any title, chapter, part, or section
hereof.

12.02.080 Validity Of Title - Severability*

If any provision of this Title is held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
decision of invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect the other provisions of this Title which can be
given effect without the invalid or unconstitutional provision.

12.02.090 No Mandatory Duty - Civil Liability*

It is the intent of the Council that in establishing performance standards or an obligation to act by a White
City officer, employee, or designee, the standards or obligation shall not be construed to create a
mandatory duty for purposes of tort liability if the officer, employee, or designee fails to perform his or her
directed performance standards or obligation to act.

12.02.100 General Rules Of Interpretation Of Ordinances*

For purposes of this Title:

(1)   Any gender includes the other gender(s).
(2)   “Shall” is mandatory; “may” is permissive.
(3)   The singular number includes the plural.
(4)   Any word or phrase used in this Title, and not specifically defined, shall be construed according to
the context and approved usage of the language.

12.02.110 Definitions Applicable To Title Generally*

The following words and phrases, as used in this Title, shall be construed as defined in this section, unless
the context or subject matter requires a different meaning as specifically defined elsewhere in this Title
and specifically stated to apply:
(1)      "Abate" or "Abatement" means any action White City may take on public or private property and
any adjacent property as may be necessary to remove or alleviate a violation, including demolition,
removal, eviction of persons, repair, boarding, securing, or replacement of property.
(2)      "Administrative Code Enforcement Order" means an order issued by an Administrative Law Judge.
The order may include an order to abate the violation, pay civil penalties and administrative costs, or take
any other action as authorized or required by this Title and applicable state codes.
(3)      "Administrative Law Judge" or "hearing officer'' means the position established by the Code § 1.16.
(4)      "Animal Control Administrator" means the supervisor of the Animal Control Division, established in
the Code § 8.1.
(5)      "Chief Building Official" means the official authorized and responsible for planning, directing, and
managing the building inspection activities within White City.
(6)      "Council" means the White City Council.
(7)      "Code Enforcement Lien" means a lien recorded to collect outstanding civil penalties, administrative
fees, or costs.
(8)      "Code Enforcement Performance Bond" means a bond posted by a responsible person to ensure
compliance with White City Code, applicable state titles, a judicial action, or an administrative code
enforcement order.
(9)      "County" means Salt Lake County, Utah.
(10) “Courtesy Notice” means a written notice prepared by an enforcement official that informs a
responsible person of a minor violation and notifies the responsible person of the necessary actions that
are required to correct the minor violation.
(11) "Department" means White City's Planning and Development Services Department, or its designee.
(12) "Director" means the director of White City's Planning and Development Services Department or
the director’s authorized agent or any other person or entity and authorized agent directed to provide code
enforcement services.
(13) "Enforcement Official" means any person authorized to enforce violations of White City Code or
applicable state codes.
(14) "Financial Institution" means any person or entity that holds a recorded mortgage or deed of trust
on a property.
(15) "Fire Department" means the applicable entity that is authorized and responsible for providing fire
and emergency services to White City.
(16) "Good Cause" means incapacitating illness; death; lack of proper notice; unavailability due to
unavoidable, unpreventable, or extenuating emergency or circumstance; if a required act causes an
imminent and irreparable injury; or acts of nature adverse to performing required acts.
(17) “Hazardous Materials” means the same as that term is defined in Utah Code Section 10-11-1.
(18) "Imminent Life Safety Hazard" means any condition that creates a present, extreme, or immediate
danger to life, property, health, or public safety.
(19) "White City" means White City, a municipal corporation or city under state law' pursuant to Utah
Code Subsection 68-3-12.5(6).
(20) "Legal Interest" means any interest that is represented by a document, including a deed of trust,
quitclaim deed, mortgage, judgment lien, tax or assessment lien, mechanic's lien, or other similar
instrument that is recorded with the County Recorder.
(21) “Major Violation” means any nuisance or other violation as defined in White City Code, state code
or Utah state courts, to include, without limitations, any:
      a. land use that does not conform to existing zoning of the property;
      b. unauthorized collection of motor vehicles that are unlicensed, unregistered, or inoperable;
      c. accumulations of trash, litter, illegal dumping, which occupy a combined area more than 50
            square feet;
      d. weeds that occupy a combined area that exceeds 100 square feet or increase the risk of fire
            spreading to a neighboring property;
      e. unauthorized use of any public street or sidewalk, including news racks, merchandise displays,
            mobile food vending, or other illegal uses.
      f.    illegal advertising;
     g.      illegal residing in a Recreational Vehicle
     h.      open storage of items; or
     i.      any other violation of White City Municipal Code that is not specifically defined as a minor
             violation.
(22) "Municipality" or "City" means the area within the territorial municipal limits of White City, and
such territory outside the area over which White City has jurisdiction or control.
(23) "Minor violation" means the following violations of White City Municipal Code:
       a. accumulations of trash, litter, or illegal dumping, which occupy a combined area less than 50
             square feet; or
       b. weeds which occupy a combined area less than 100 square feet and do not increase the risk of
             fire spreading to a neighboring property.
(24) "Notice of Compliance" means a document issued by White City, representing that the violations
outlined in the notice of violation have been remedied and the property is in compliance with applicable
codes.
(25) "Notice of Satisfaction" means a document or form approved by the Director or designee, which
states that all outstanding civil penalties and costs have been paid in full, negotiated to an agreed amount,
or resolved by a subsequent administrative or judicial decision. The property shall also be in compliance
with the requirements of the notice of violation.
(26) "Notice of Violation" means a written notice prepared by an enforcement official that informs a
responsible person of any code violation and orders the person to take certain actions to correct the
violation.
(27) "Oath" includes any affirmation or oath.
(28) "Person" means any natural person, firm, joint venture, joint stock company, partnership,
association, club, company, corporation, business trust, organization, or the manager, lessee, agent,
sergeant, officer, or employee of any of them, or any other entity that is recognized by law as the subject
of rights or duties.
(29) "Program" means the Code Enforcement and Community Enhancement Program authorized under
this Title.
(30) "Property Owner" means the record owner of real property based on the county assessor's records.
(31) "Public Nuisance" means any condition caused, maintained, or permitted to exist that constitutes a
threat to the public's health, safety, and welfare or that significantly obstructs, injures, or interferes with
the reasonable or quiet use of property in a neighborhood, community, or by a considerable number of
persons. A public nuisance also has the same meaning as set forth in the Utah statute.
(32) “Recreational Vehicle” means a vehicular unit other than a mobile home, primarily designed as a
temporary dwelling for travel, recreational, or vacation use, that is either self-propelled or pulled by or on
another vehicle, including truck campers, camper trailers, motorhomes, vehicles converted to have living
facilities, or other vehicles used as sleeping or living accommodations.
(33) "Residing” as it relates to a Recreational Vehicle means a rebuttable presumption that a
Recreational Vehicle is being used as a residential unit if the Recreational Vehicle is occupied at any time
between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. for more than 14-consecutive days within a 6-month period.
This presumption may be rebutted upon a showing of substantial evidence that the Recreational Vehicle
is not used for sleeping, toilet facilities, food preparation, or showering.
(34) "Responsible Person" means a person who has charge, care, or control of any premises, dwelling,
or dwelling unit as the legal or equitable owner, agent of the owner, lessee, or as an executor,
administrator, trustee, or guardian of the estate of the owner. In all cases, the person with legal title to any
premises, dwelling, or dwelling unit shall be considered a responsible person, with or without
accompanying actual possession thereof.
(35) "Treasurer" means the White City Treasurer as designated pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-3c-203.
(36) "Written" includes handwritten, typewritten, photocopied, computer printed, or facsimile, whether in
physical or electronic form.
12.02.111 Acts Include Causing, Aiding And Abetting*

If any act or omission is made unlawful in this Title, it shall include causing, permitting, aiding, or abetting
the act or omission.

12.02.200 Part 2 - Service Requirements*

12.02.210 Service Of Process*

(1)    If service in person or by mail is required to be given under this Title, service shall be made in
accordance with Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-2 unless another form of service is required by law.
(2)    If service complies with the requirements of this Part, it shall be considered to be a valid service
even if a party claims not to have received the service and it shall not affect the validity of any proceedings
taken under this Title.
(3)    The failure to serve all responsible persons shall not affect the validity of any proceedings.

12.02.220 Construction Notice Of Recorded Documents*

If a document is recorded with the County Recorder as authorized or required by this Title or applicable
state statute, recordation shall provide constructive notice of the information contained in the recorded
documents.

12.02.300 Part 3 - General Authority and Offenses*

12.02.310 General Enforcement Authority*

If the Director or enforcement official finds that a violation of White City Code or applicable state code has
occurred or continues to exist, the administrative enforcement procedure may be used as provided in this
Title. The Director or any designated enforcement official has the authority and power necessary to enforce
compliance with the provisions of White City Code and applicable state code provisions, including issuing
notices of violation or administrative citations, inspecting public or private property, abating public and
private property, or using other judicial and administrative remedies available pursuant to White City Code
or state statute. White City may elect to proceed with an action in District Court without first exhausting
administrative remedies.

12.02.320 Adoption of Policy and Procedures*

In compliance with the Utah Administrative Code, the Administrative Law Judge is authorized to develop
policies and procedures relating to the hearing procedures, scope of hearings, subpoena powers, and
other matters relating to the Program. The policies and procedures may vary based on the circumstances
of each matter before the Administrative Law Judge.

12.02.330 Authority to Inspect*

The Director or any designated enforcement official is authorized to enter upon any property or premises
to inspect and ascertain if the person is complying with White City Code or applicable state code provisions
and to make any necessary examination or survey in the performance of the enforcement duties with
either the permission of the responsible person, land owner, or upon obtaining a search warrant. If the
responsible person refuses to allow the enforcement official to enter the property, the enforcement official
shall obtain a search warrant. The Director or any designated enforcement official may not enter a
property, except to access the front door, without permission or a warrant. Any inspection entry,
examination, or survey shall be done in a reasonable manner based upon probable cause. The Director
or any designated enforcement official may obtain evidence viewable from any public street, sidewalk,
adjacent property or location where the responsible person has given authorization for entry without a
warrant.
12.02.340 Administrative Search Warrant Procedure

(1)    The Director or any designated enforcement official may apply for an administrative search warrant
with the Administrative Law Judge upon a showing of probable cause to believe that a violation of the
White City Code or an applicable state code has occurred, is occurring, or is about to occur. The showing
of probable cause shall be based on specific and articulable facts or circumstances and shall be supported
by a sworn affidavit or a verified complaint.
(2)    A search warrant shall be issued by the Administrative Law Judge upon a finding of probable cause
to believe that a violation of the White City Code or an applicable state code has occurred, and that a
search of private property is necessary to investigate and enforce such ordinance.
(3)    A search warrant shall specify the property to be searched and, if applicable, the items to be seized.
(4)    The search warrant shall be executed by a designated enforcement official in accordance with the
Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution and Utah law.
(5)    The search warrant shall be executed in a reasonable manner, taking into account the nature of
the ordinance being enforced, the nature of the property being searched, and the presence of any
individual(s) on the property.
(6)    A report of the execution of the search warrant shall be made in writing and filed with the
Administrative Law Judge that issued the warrant. The report shall include a description of the property
searched, the items seized, and any other information required by law or court order.
(7)    No person shall refuse entry or access to any authorized representative of the department who
requests entry for purposes of inspection, and who presents appropriate credentials and warrant, nor shall
any person obstruct, hamper or interfere with any such inspection.
(8)    Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent prompt inspection without consent or
appropriate warrant in emergency situations.

12.02.350 Power to Issue Citations*

The Director or any designated enforcement official is authorized to issue a misdemeanor citation or
administrative citation if there is reasonable cause to believe that the person is committing or has
committed a violation of the White City Code or state code in the enforcement official's presence.

12.02.360 False Information or Refusal Prohibited*

It shall be unlawful for any person to make a false statement or refuse to give his or her name or address
with intent to deceive or interfere with a duly authorized White City official or agent, including to the Director
or any authorized enforcement officials, when in the performance of official duties under the provisions of
this Title. A violation of this Section is a class B misdemeanor.

12.02.370 Failure to Obey a Subpoena*

It is unlawful for any person to refuse or fail to obey a subpoena issued for an administrative code
enforcement hearing. Failure to obey a subpoena constitutes contempt and is a class B misdemeanor.
Chapter 12.04 Administrative Code Enforcement Procedures*
12.04.010 Authority*
12.04.020 Courtesy Notice*
12.04.030 Notice of Violation*
12.04.040 Failure to Bring Property Into Compliance*
12.04.050 Inspections*
12.04.200 Part 2 - Emergency Abatement*
12.04.210 Authority to Abate*
12.04.220 Procedures for Abatement*
12.04.300 Part 3 – Emergency Abatement*
12.04.310 Authority*
12.04.320 Procedures*
12.04.230 Notice of Emergency Abatement*
12.04.400 Part 4 - Abatement of Hazardous Materials
12.04.420 Notice Of Hazardous Material Abatement*
12.04.430 Certified Decontamination Specialist*
12.04.500 Part 5 - Hearing Procedures*
12.04.510 Declaration of Purpose*
12.04.520 Authority and Scope of Hearings*
12.04.530 Request for Administrative Code Enforcement Hearing*
12.04.540 Hearings and Orders*
12.04.550 Notification of Administrative Code Enforcement Hearing*
12.04.560 Disqualification of Administrative Law Judge*
12.04.570 Powers of The Administrative Law Judge*
12.04.580 Procedures at Administrative Code Enforcement Hearing*
12.04.590 Failure to Attend Administrative Code Enforcement Hearing*
12.04.591 Administrative Code Enforcement Order*
12.04.595 Failure to Comply With Order*
12.04.600 Part 6 - Administrative Enforcement Appeals*
12.04.610 Appeal of Administrative Code Enforcement Hearing Decision*

12.04.010 Authority*

Any condition caused, maintained, or permitted to exist in violation of any provisions of the White City
Code or applicable state codes that constitutes a violation may be abated by White City pursuant to the
procedures set forth in this Title.

12.04.020 Courtesy Notice*

(1)    If the Director or any designated enforcement official determines that a minor violation has
occurred, the Director or enforcement official may issue a courtesy notice to a responsible person by
leaving a courtesy notice with the responsible person or affixing the notice to the door or gate of the
property. The courtesy notice shall include the following information:
     a. Name of the property owner of record according to the records of the County Recorder;
     b. Street address of violation;
     c. Nature and results of the examination and investigation conducted;
     d. Date and approximate time the violation was observed
     e. All code sections violated and descriptions of the condition of the property that violates
           the applicable codes;
     f.    A statement explaining the type of remedial action required to permanently correct
           outstanding violations, which may include corrections, repairs, demolition, removal,
           eradication, destruction, or other appropriate action;
      g. A statement that if the violation has not been remedied within 7 days, the designated
           enforcement official will issue a notice of violation consistent with the requirements of
           this chapter.
      h. The name and contact information of the code enforcement official who may be
           contacted regarding the courtesy notice.
(2)     The issuance of a courtesy notice is discretionary, and an enforcement official may proceed with
the issuance of a notice of violation without first issuing a courtesy notice.

12.04.030 Notice of Violation*

(1)      If the Director or any designated enforcement official determines that a major violation of the White
City Code or applicable state codes has occurred or continues to exist or a minor violation continues to
exist, the Director or enforcement official may issue a notice of violation to a responsible person. The
notice of violation shall include the following information and shall comply with Utah Code § 10-11-2 or the
applicable successor statute(s):
      a. Name of the property owner of record according to the records of the County Recorder;
      b. Street address of violation;
      c. Nature and results of the examination and investigation conducted;
      d. Date and approximate time the violation was observed;
      e. All code sections violated and descriptions of the condition of the property that violates the
              applicable codes;
      f.      A statement explaining the type of remedial action required to permanently correct outstanding
              violations, which may include corrections, repairs, demolition, removal, eradication, destruction,
              or other appropriate action;
      g. A specific date for the responsible party to correct the violations listed in the notice of violation
              or appeal the notice of violation, which date shall be at least fifteen days from the date of service
              unless the Director determines that the violation requires emergency abatement under Section
              12.2.200;
      h. Explanation of the consequences if the responsible person fails to comply with the terms and
              deadlines as prescribed in the notice of violation, which may include criminal prosecution; civil
              penalties; revocation of permits; recordation of the notice of violation; withholding of future
              municipal permits; abatement of the violation by White City and re-payment to White City for the
              costs of the abatement; other costs incurred by White City; administrative fees; and any other
              legal remedies;
      i.      Civil penalties shall begin to accrue immediately on expiration of the date to correct violations;
      j.      The amount of the civil penalty on each violation and that the penalty shall accrue daily until the
              property is brought into compliance;
      k. Only one notice of violation is required for any 12-month period, and civil penalties begin
              immediately upon any subsequent violation of the notice. The responsible person may request
              a hearing on the renewed violation by following the same procedure as provided for the original
              notice;
      l.      Procedures to appeal the notice and request a hearing, including the amount of the appeal fee,
              as provided in the adopted fee schedule and consequences for failure to request one, including
              that failure to appeal waives all defenses to the notice of violation and the Director, or designee,
              may order the abatement of the property without a subsequent hearing or order; and
      m. Procedures to request an inspection after the violation has been abated.
(2)     The notice of violation shall be served by one of the methods of service listed in Section 12.2.210
of this Title.
(3)     More than one notice of violation may be issued against the same responsible person if it
encompasses different dates, or different violations.

12.04.040 Failure To Bring Property Into Compliance*

(1)   If a responsible person fails to bring a violation into compliance within the compliance period specified
      in the notice of violation:
      a. civil penalties shall be owed to White City for each and every subsequent day of violation;
      b. If the responsible party does not request a hearing on the notice of violation within the required
             period specified in the notice of violation, the Director may
                i.   schedule the abatement of violations on the property specified in the notice of violation;
                ii.  schedule a default hearing with the Administrative Law Judge; or
                iii. bring an enforcement and abatement action in the district court.
(2)   Failure to comply with the notice of violation is a Class C misdemeanor.

12.04.050 Inspections*

It shall be the duty of the responsible person served with a notice of violation to request in writing an
inspection when the responsible person’s property has been brought into compliance. It is prima facie
evidence that the violation remains on the property if no inspection is requested. Civil penalties accumulate
daily until the property has been inspected and a notice of compliance is issued. Re-inspection fees shall
be assessed if more than one inspection is necessary.

12.04.200 Part 2 - Abatement

12.04.210 Authority To Abate*

The Director is authorized to enter upon any property or premises to abate the violation of White City Code
and applicable state codes pursuant to this Part. The Director is authorized to assess all costs for the
abatement to the responsible person and use any remedy available under the law to collect the costs,
including assessment of the costs on the County tax rolls.

12.04.220 Procedures For Abatement*

(1)     The Director may abate a violation pursuant to this Part after providing notice under this Title and
by following the process set forth in Utah Code § 10-11-3 or any applicable successor statute if the
Responsible Party:
      a. Does not abate a violation within the time period prescribed in a notice; and
      b. Did not file a request for an administrative code enforcement hearing under this Title.
(2)     The Director may request a default hearing but is not required to do so to abate the violation under
this Part and may abate the violation without a default hearing pursuant to Utah Code § 10-11-3 or any
applicable successor statute.
(3)     The Director may use White City personnel or a private contractor acting under the Director’s or
White City’ direction to abate the violation.
(4)     White City personnel or a private contractor may enter upon private property in a reasonable
manner to abate the ordinance violation as specified in the notice of violation or administrative code
enforcement order.
(5)     If the responsible person abates the violation before White City performs the actual abatement
pursuant to a notice of violation or administrative code enforcement order, the Director may still assess
the costs incurred by White City against the responsible person.
(6)    In compliance with Utah Code § 10-11-3 or any applicable statute, the Director shall prepare an
itemized statement of the work performed when the abatement is completed on the responsible person.
(7)    The Administrative Law Judge shall hear any appeals filed by a responsible person in response to
an itemized statement issued under this Part and shall conduct such appeals and any related hearings in
accordance with Utah Code § 10-11-3 or any applicable successor statute.

12.04.300 Part 3 - Emergency Abatement*

12.04.310 Authority*

(1)     Whenever the Director determines that an imminent life safety hazard exists that requires
immediate correction or elimination, the Director may exercise the following powers without prior notice to
the responsible person:
     a. Order the immediate vacation of any tenants, and prohibit occupancy or entry until all repairs
           are completed, provided that an order prohibiting entry shall specify how entry is to be made to
           mitigate damage, complete repairs, retrieve personal property, or for any other purpose, if any,
           during the abatement process;
     b. Post the premises as unsafe, substandard, or dangerous;
     c. Board, fence, or secure the building or site;
     d. Raze, grade, and remove that portion of the building or site to prevent further collapse or any
           hazard to the general public;
     e. Make any minimal emergency repairs as necessary to eliminate any imminent life safety hazard;
           or
     f.    Take any other action appropriate to eliminate the emergency.
(2)     The Director and his or her agents have the authority for good cause to enter the property without
a search warrant or court order to accomplish the above listed acts to abate the safety hazard.
(3)     The responsible person shall be liable for all costs associated with the abatement of the life safety
hazard. Costs may be recovered pursuant to this Title.

12.04.320 Procedures*

(1)     The Director shall pursue only the minimum level of correction or abatement as necessary to
eliminate the immediacy of the hazard. Costs incurred by White City during the emergency abatement
process shall be assessed and recovered against the responsible person through the procedures provided
in this Title.
(2)     The Director may also pursue any other valid and legal administrative or judicial remedy to abate
any remaining violations.

12.04.330 Notice Of Emergency Abatement*

After an emergency abatement, White City shall notify the owner or responsible person of the
abatement action taken in writing. This notice shall be served within ten days of completion of the
abatement and will describe in reasonable detail the abatement actions taken.

12.04.400 Part 4 – Abatement of Hazardous Materials*

12.04.410 Authority*

If the Director determines that a structure has been closed to occupancy or entry by a local health
department due to contamination from hazardous materials, the Director may appoint a municipal
inspector for the purpose of implementing and complying with the provisions of Utah Code 10-11-1. The
Director may authorize abatement of the interior of the structure to eliminate or remove hazardous
materials within a structure that has been closed to occupancy or entry by a local health department or
fire department.

12.04.420 Notice of Hazardous Material Abatement*

(1)      If the Director or any designated enforcement official determines that a structure has been closed
by the local health department or fire department for hazardous materials, the Director or enforcement
official will issue a notice of hazardous material abatement to a responsible person.
(2)      The notice of hazardous material abatement shall include the following information and shall comply
with Utah Code § 10-11-2 or the applicable successor statute:
      a. Name of the property owner of record according to the records of the County Recorder;
      b. Street address of violation;
      c. Nature and results of the examination and investigation conducted;
      d. Date and approximate time the violation was observed;
      e. All code sections violated and descriptions of the condition of the property that violates the
              applicable codes;
      f.      A statement explaining the type of remedial action required to permanently correct outstanding
              violations, which may include corrections, repairs, demolition, removal, eradication, destruction,
              or other appropriate action;
      g. A specific date for the responsible party to correct the violations listed in the notice of hazardous
              material abatement or appeal the notice of hazardous material abatement, which date shall be
              at least 180 days from the date of service;
      h. Explanation of the consequences if the responsible person fails to comply with the terms and
              deadlines as prescribed in the notice of violation, which may include criminal prosecution; civil
              penalties; revocation of permits; recordation of the notice of violation; withholding of future
              municipal permits; abatement of the violation by White City and re-payment to White City for the
              costs of the abatement; other costs incurred by White City; administrative fees; and any other
              legal remedies;
      i.      Civil penalties shall begin to accrue immediately on expiration of the date to correct violations
              or the appeal and administrative proceeding process is completed;
      j.      The amount of the civil penalty on each violation and that the penalty shall accrue daily until the
              property is brought into compliance;
      k. Procedures to appeal the notice and request a hearing, including the amount of the appeal fee,
              as provided in the adopted fee schedule, and consequences for failure to request one, including
              that failure to appeal waives all defenses to the notice of hazardous material abatement and
              the Director, or designee, may order the abatement of the property without a subsequent
              hearing or order; and
      l.      Procedures to request an inspection after the violation has been abated.
(3)      The notice of hazardous material abatement shall be served by one of the methods of service listed
in Section 12.02.210 of this Title.

12.04.430 Certified Decontamination Specialist*

A responsible party, owner, or occupant must use a certified decontamination specialist to abate
hazardous materials as described in Utah Code § 19-6-906.

12.04.430 Restricting Access*

The Director may issue an order limiting or restricting access to a structure and the real property
appurtenant to the structure while the municipal inspector or a certified decontamination specialist
destroys, removes, or abates hazardous materials within the structure.
12.04.500 Part 5 - Demolitions*

12.04.510 Authority*

If the Director determines that a property or building requires demolition, the Director may demolish or
remove the offending structure, or exercise any or all of the powers listed in this Title once appropriate
notice has been given to a responsible person pursuant to the Uniform Abatement of Dangerous Buildings
Code or Uniform Fire Codes as required under state law, provided that the notice shall include a written
description of the Director's findings, explaining the need for the demolition and citations to the applicable
ordinances or laws authorizing the demolition. The responsible person shall be liable for all costs
associated with the demolition. Costs may be recovered pursuant to this Title.

12.04.420 Procedures*

Once the Director has determined that the White City Chief Building Official or the Fire Department has
complied with all of the notice requirements of the applicable laws, the property will be demolished. Other
applicable remedies may also be pursued.

12.042.400 Part 4 – Administrative Citations*

12.042.410 Declaration Of Purpose*

The Council finds that there is a need for an alternative method of enforcement for violations of the White
City Code and applicable state codes which do not relate to land use violations. The Council further finds
that an appropriate method of enforcement is an administrative citation program.

The procedures established in this Part shall be in addition to criminal, civil, or any other legal remedy
established by law that may be pursued to address violations of the White City Code or applicable state
codes.

12.042.420 Authority*

Any person violating a provision of the White City Code or applicable state codes may be issued an
administrative citation by an enforcement official as provided in this Part.

A civil penalty shall be assessed by means of an administrative citation issued by the enforcement official
and shall be payable directly to the White City Treasurer's Office, or other offices designated to receive
payment on behalf of White City.

Penalties assessed by means of an administrative citation shall be collected in accordance with the
procedures specified in the remedies section of this Title.

12.042.430 Procedures*

(1)      Upon discovering any violation of the White City Code, or applicable state codes, an enforcement
official may issue an administrative citation to a responsible person in the manner prescribed in this Part or
as prescribed in Section 12.1.210. The administrative citation shall be issued on a form approved by the
Director.
(2)      If the responsible person is a business, the enforcement official shall attempt to locate the business
owner and issue an administrative citation to the business owner. If the enforcement official can only locate
the manager of the business, the administrative citation may be given to the manager of the business. A
copy of the administrative citation may also be mailed to the business owner or any other responsible
person in the manner prescribed in Section 12.1.210 of this Title.
(3)    Once the responsible person has been located, the enforcement official shall attempt to obtain the
signature of that person on the administrative citation. If the responsible person refuses or fails to sign the
administrative citation, the failure or refusal to sign shall not affect the validity of the citation and
subsequent proceedings.
(4)    If the enforcement official is unable to locate the responsible person for the violation, then the
administrative citation shall be mailed to the responsible person in the manner prescribed in Section
12.1.210 of this Title.
(5)    If no one can be located at the property, then the administrative citation may be posted in a
conspicuous place on or near the property and a copy subsequently mailed to the responsible person in
the manner prescribed by Section 12.1.210 of this Title.
(6)    The administrative citation shall also contain the signature of the enforcement official.
(7)    The failure of any person with an interest in the property to receive notice shall not affect the validity
of any proceedings taken under this Part.

HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 19-07-01 on 7/22/2019

12.042.440 Contents Of Administrative Citation*

Administrative citations shall include the information required in Section 12.2.020 and shall:

(1)   State the amount of penalty imposed for the minor violations; and
(2)   Explain how the penalty shall be paid, the time period by which the penalty shall be paid, and the
consequences of failure to pay the penalty.

12.042.450 Civil Penalties Assessed*

(1)   The City Council shall establish policies to assist in the assessment of civil penalties for
administrative citations.
(2)   Civil penalties shall be assessed immediately for each violation listed on the administrative citation.
The penalties shall be those established in the Consolidated Fee Schedule.
(3)   Payment of the penalty shall not excuse the failure to correct the violations, nor shall it bar further
enforcement action by the City.

12.04.500 Part 5 – Appeal and Hearing Procedures*

12.04.510 Declaration Of Purpose*

The Council finds that there is a need to establish uniform procedures for administrative code enforcement
hearings conducted pursuant to White City Code. It is the purpose and intent of the Council to afford due
process of law to any person who is directly affected by an administrative action. Due process of law
includes notice, an opportunity to participate in the administrative hearing, and an explanation of the
reasons justifying the administrative action. These procedures are also intended to establish a forum to
efficiently, expeditiously, and fairly resolve issues raised in any administrative code enforcement action.



12.04.520 Authority and Scope of Hearings*

The Administrative Law Judge shall preside over hearings of White City Code violations. The
Administrative Law Judge shall develop policies and procedures to regulate the hearing process for
any violation of
White City Code and applicable state codes that are handled pursuant to the administrative abatement
procedures, emergency abatement procedures, demolition procedures, or administrative citation
procedures. If there is a conflict between the appeal procedures in this Title and the appeal procedures in
another code incorporated by White City, this Title shall control.

12.04.530 Appeal and Request For Administrative Code Enforcement Hearing*

(1)     A person served with one of the following documents or notices has the right to appeal by
requesting an administrative code enforcement hearing, if the request is filed within 15 calendar days from
the date of service of one of the following notices:
      a. Notice of violation;
      b. Notice of itemized bill for costs; or
      c. Notice of emergency abatement;
(2)     A person served with a notice of hazardous material abatement shall have the right to appeal by
requesting an administrative code enforcement hearing, if the request is filed within 180 calendar days
from the date of service.
(3)     The request for hearing shall be made in writing and filed with the Director or as otherwise indicated
in the notice of violation. The request shall contain the following:
      a. the case number,
      b. the address of the violation,
      c. a statement of the legal and factual basis supporting the overturning the notice of violation; and
      d. the signature of the responsible party.
(4)     The request for hearing shall be accompanied by payment of the appeal fee the amount of which
shall be provided forth in the White City Fee Schedule.
(5)     Failure to provide all the information required in Subsection 12.02.530(2) and payment of the appeal
fee required in Subsection 12.02.530 (3), may result in the dismissal of the appeal without a hearing.
(6)     As soon as practicable after receiving the written notice of the request for hearing, the Director shall
schedule a date, time, and place for the hearing with the Administrative Law Judge and serve a Notice of
Hearing on the responsible party.
(7)     Failure to request a hearing as provided shall constitute a waiver of the right to a hearing and a
waiver of the right to appeal the action.

12.04.540 Hearings And Orders*

(1)     If the responsible person fails to request a hearing before the expiration of the 15 calendar day
required deadline, the Director may:
     a. Schedule the abatement of the property and serve a notice of abatement on the responsible
             party.
     b. Request a default hearing, with the Administrative Law Judge and notify the responsible person
             of the date, time, and place of the hearing by one of the methods listed in Section 12.2.210.
(2)     A default hearing may be scheduled for all cases that have outstanding or unpaid civil penalties,
fines, fees and/or costs due to White City before collection.
(3)     At any hearing, the responsible person shall have the opportunity to present evidence to show that
good cause exists, as defined in the Title, to do one or more of the following in addition to any other rights
afforded under other provisions of White City Code or applicable law:
     a. Waive or reduce the fines which have accumulated;
     b. Postpone an abatement action by White City; or
     c. Excuse the responsible person’s failure to request a hearing within the 15-day period.
(4)     If the responsible person fails to establish good cause to take one or more of the actions set forth
in paragraph (3), the Administrative Law Judge shall review the notice of violation and any other relevant
information included in the case file. The Administrative Law Judge shall not accept any other evidence.
     If the evidence shows that the violations existed, the Administrative Law Judge shall enter an order
     requiring abatement of the violations, and the payment of all fines and fees. Fines shall run until the
     Director or other duly authorized representative of White City issues a Notice of Compliance stating
     when the violations were actually abated.

12.04.550 Notification Of Administrative Code Enforcement Hearing*

(1)     The Administrative Law Judge or White City shall provide written notice of the day, time, and place
of the hearing to a responsible person as soon as practicable prior to the date of the hearing with the format
and contents of the hearing provided in accordance with rules and policies promulgated by the
Administrative Law Judge.
(2)     The notice of hearing shall be served by any of the methods of service listed in Section 12.1.210
of this Title.

12.04.560 Disqualification Of Administrative Law Judge*

(1)     A responsible person may file a written motion to disqualify an Administrative Law Judge for bias,
prejudice, a conflict of interest, or any other reason for which a judge may be disqualified in a court of law.
The motion to disqualify shall be accompanied by an affidavit or unsworn declaration as described in Title
78B of the Utah Code or applicable successor statute signed by the responsible person, which shall:
      a. State that the motion is filed in good faith;
      b. Allege facts sufficient to show bias, prejudice, a conflict of interest, or any other reason that
            would disqualify a judge in a court of law in Utah; and
      c. State when and how the Responsible Party came to know of the reason for disqualification.
(2)     The responsible person shall file the motion within 21 days of the assignment of the action to an
Administrative Law Judge or the date on which the responsible person knew or should have known of the
grounds on which the motion is based, whichever is later.
(3)     A responsible person may only file one motion to disqualify an Administrative Law Judge, unless a
second or subsequent motion is based on grounds that the responsible person did not know of and could
not have known of at the time of the earlier motion.
(4)     The Administrative Law Judge who is the subject of a motion to disqualify must, without taking any
further action, provide the Director with a copy of the motion and refer the motion to the White City Council.
(5)     Upon receipt of a motion to disqualify, the White City Council will schedule and notice the matter
for review at its next regular scheduled meeting. The White City Council may, in its sole discretion, elect
to hold a special meeting to hear the motion before its next regularly scheduled meeting. The White City
Council shall first review the motion to disqualify to determine if it satisfies the requirements of paragraphs
(1) and
(2) of this Section. If the motion to disqualify does not satisfy the requirements of this Section, the Council
will deny the motion and remand it to the Administrative Law Judge for further proceedings. If the motion
to disqualify satisfies the requirements of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this Section, the White City Council
shall determine whether the motion is legally sufficient to warrant disqualification. If the White City Council
determines that disqualification is warranted, it will assign the matter to another Administrative Law Judge.
If the White City Council determines that the motion to disqualify is not legally sufficient, it will remand the
matter back to the Administrative Law Judge.

12.04.570 Powers of the Administrative Law Judge*

(1)     The Administrative Law Judge has the authority to conduct an adjudicative proceeding, determine
if any violation of White City Code exists, order compliance with White City Code, and enforce compliance
as provided in this Title on any matter subject to the provisions of the Title.
(2)     The Administrative Law Judge may complete the attendance of a witness and production of a
document or other evidence, administer an oath, take testimony, and receive evidence as necessary.
(3)    The Administrative Law Judge may continue a hearing based on good cause shown by one of the
parties to the hearing. The Administrative Law Judge must enter on the record the good cause on which
a continuance is granted.
(4)    The Administrative Law Judge, at the request of any party to the hearing, may sign subpoenas for
witnesses, documents, and other evidence. All costs related to the subpoena, including witness and
mileage fees, shall be borne by the party requesting the subpoena. The Administrative Law Judge shall
develop policies and procedures relating to the issuance of subpoenas in administrative code enforcement
hearings, including the form of the subpoena and related costs.
(5)    The Administrative Law Judge has continuing jurisdiction over the subject matter of an
administrative code enforcement hearing for the purposes of granting a continuance; ordering compliance
by issuing an administrative code enforcement order using any remedies available under the law; ensuring
compliance with that order, which includes the right to authorize White City to enter and abate a violation;
modifying an administrative code enforcement order; or, where extraordinary circumstances exist,
granting a new hearing.
(6)    The Administrative Law Judge has the authority to require a responsible person to post a code
enforcement performance bond to ensure compliance with an administrative code enforcement order.

12.04.580 Procedures at Administrative Code Enforcement Hearing*

(1)    Administrative code enforcement hearings are intended to be informal. Formal rules of evidence
and discovery do not apply; however, an informal exchange of discovery may be required. The request
shall be in writing. Failure to request discovery may not be a basis for a continuance. Complainant
information is protected and shall not be released unless the complainant is a witness at the hearing. The
procedure and format of the administrative hearing shall follow the procedures promulgated by the
Administrative Law Judge.
(2)    White City bears the burden of proof at an administrative code enforcement hearing to establish
the existence of a violation of White City or applicable state codes.
(3)    The standard of proof to be used by the Administrative Law Judge in deciding the issues at an
administrative hearing is whether the preponderance of the evidence shows that the violations exist.
(4)    Each party shall have the opportunity to cross-examine witnesses and present evidence in support
of his or her case. A written declaration signed under penalty of perjury may be accepted in lieu of a
personal appearance. Testimony may be given by telephone or other electronic means. The
Administrative Law Judge may accept testimony offered by proffer.
(5)    All hearings are open to the public, but public notice is not required. All hearings shall be recorded.
The recording may be audio or video. Hearings may be held at the location of the violation.
(6)    The responsible person has a right to be represented by an attorney. If an attorney is representing
the responsible person at the hearing, notice of the attorney's name, address, and telephone number shall
be provided to White City at least one day prior to the hearing. If notice is not given, the hearing may be
continued at White City's request, and all costs of the continuance assessed to the responsible person.
(7)    No new hearing shall be granted, unless the Administrative Law Judge determines that
extraordinary circumstances exist which justify a new hearing.

12.04.590 Failure to Attend Administrative Code Enforcement Hearing*

Any party whose property or actions are the subject of any administrative code enforcement hearing and
who fails to appear at the hearing is considered to have waived the right to a hearing, and will result in a
default judgment, provided that proper notice of the hearing has been provided.
12.04.591 Administrative Code Enforcement Order*

(1)     Once all evidence and testimony are completed, the Administrative Law Judge shall issue, or cause
the prevailing party to circulate, an administrative code enforcement order that affirms, modifies, or rejects
the notice or citation. The Administrative Law Judge may increase or decrease the total amount of civil
penalties and costs that are due pursuant to White City's fee schedule and the procedures in this Title.
(2)     The parties may enter into a stipulated agreement, which must be signed by both parties. This
agreement shall be entered as a stipulated administrative code enforcement order. Entry of this agreement
shall constitute a waiver of the right to a hearing and the right to appeal.
(3)     The Administrative Law Judge may order White City to enter the property and abate all violations,
including demolitions and the removal of vehicles, garbage, animals, and other property kept in violation
of White City Code.
(4)     The Administrative Law Judge may revoke a kennel permit, an animal license, or the right to
possess animals as provided in White City Code.
(5)     As part of the administrative code enforcement order, the Administrative Law Judge may condition
the total or partial assessment of civil penalties on the responsible person's ability to complete compliance
by specified deadlines.
(6)     The Administrative Law Judge may schedule subsequent review hearings as may be necessary or
as requested by a party to the hearing to ensure compliance with the administrative code enforcement
order.
(7)     The Administrative Law Judge may order the responsible person to post a performance bond to
ensure compliance with the order.
(8)     The administrative code enforcement order shall become final on the date of the signing of the
order.
(9)     The administrative code enforcement order shall be served on all parties by any one of the methods
listed in Section 12.1.210 of this Title.

12.04.595 Failure To Comply With Order*

Upon the failure of the responsible person to comply with the terms and deadlines set forth in the
administrative code enforcement order, White City may abate the violation as provided in this Title and
use all appropriate legal means to recover the civil penalties and administrative costs to obtain compliance.

12.04.600 Part 6 - Administrative Enforcement Appeals*

12.04.610 Appeal of Administrative Code Enforcement Hearing Decision*

(1)     Any person adversely affected by any administrative decision made pursuant to this Chapter may
file a petition for review of the decision or order by the district court within 30 days after the decision is
rendered.
(2)     No person may challenge in district court an administrative code enforcement hearing officer's
decision until that person has exhausted his or her administrative remedies.
(3)     Within 120 days after submitting the petition, the party petitioning for appeal shall request a copy
of the record of the proceedings, including transcripts of hearings when necessary. The Administrative
Law Judge shall not submit copies of files or transcripts to the reviewing court until the party petitioning
for appeal has paid all required costs, including the cost of a licensed court reporter transcribing all relevant
recorded hearings. The petitioning party's failure to properly arrange for copies of the record, or to pay the
full costs for the record, within 180 days after the petition for review was filed shall be grounds for dismissal
of the petition.

     a.   If a transcript of a hearing cannot be prepared because the tape recording is incomplete or
          unintelligible, the district court may remand the matter to the Administrative Law Judge for a
          supplemental proceeding to complete the record. The district court may limit the scope of the
          supplemental proceeding to issues that, in the court's opinion, need to be clarified.
(4)    The district court's review is limited to the record of the administrative decision that is being
appealed. The court shall not accept nor consider any evidence that is not part of the record of that
decision.
(5)    The courts shall:
     a. Presume that the administrative code enforcement hearing officer's decision and orders are
          valid; and
     b. Review the record to determine whether or not the decision was arbitrary, capricious, or illegal.

12.04.700 Part 7 – Administrative Citations*

12.04.710 Declaration of Purpose*

The Council finds there is a need for an enforcement of administrative violations that are not land use or
nuisance violations of the White City Code and applicable state code. The Council further finds that an
appropriate method of enforcement is an administrative citation program.

The procedures established in this part shall be in addition to criminal, civil, or any other legal remedy
established by law that may be pursued to address violations of White City Code or applicable State Code.

12.04.720 Authority*

(1)     Any person violating any minor provision of the White City Code or applicable state statutes may
be issued an administrative citation by an enforcement official as provided in this Part.
(2)     A civil penalty shall be assessed by means of an administrative citation issued by the enforcement
official, and shall be payable directly to White City Treasurer's Office, or other offices designated to receive
payment on behalf of White City.
(3)     Penalties assessed by means of an administrative citation shall be collected in accordance with the
procedures specified in the remedies section of this Title.

12.04.730 Procedures*

(1)      Upon discovering a violation of the White City Code, or applicable state codes, an enforcement
official may issue an administrative citation to a responsible person in the manner prescribed in this Part
or as prescribed in Section 12.1.210. The administrative citation shall be issued on a form approved by
the Director.
(2)      If the responsible person is a business, the enforcement official shall attempt to locate the business
owner and issue an administrative citation to the business owner. If the enforcement official can only locate
the manager of the business, the administrative citation may be given to the manager of the business. A
copy of the administrative citation may also be mailed to the business owner or any other responsible
person in the manner prescribed in Section 12.1.210 of this Title.
(3)      Once the responsible person has been located, the enforcement official shall attempt to obtain the
signature of that person on the administrative citation. If the responsible person refuses or fails to sign the
administrative citation, the failure or refusal to sign shall not affect the validity of the citation and
subsequent proceedings.
(4)      If the enforcement official is unable to locate the responsible person for the violation, then the
administrative citation shall be mailed to the responsible person in the manner prescribed in Section
12.1.210 of this Title.
(5)    If no one can be located at the property, then the administrative citation may be posted in a
conspicuous place on or near the property and a copy subsequently mailed to the responsible person in
the manner prescribed by Section 12.1.210 of this Title.
(6)    The administrative citation shall also contain the signature of the enforcement official.
(7)    The failure of any person with an interest in the property to receive notice shall not affect the validity
of any proceedings taken under this Part.

12.04.740 Contents Of Administrative Citation*

Administrative citations shall include the information required in Section 12.2.020 and shall:

(1)   State the amount of penalty imposed for the minor violations; and
(2)   Explain how the penalty shall be paid, the time period by which the penalty shall be paid, and the
consequences of failure to pay the penalty.

12.04.750 Civil Penalties Assessed*

(1)     The Council shall establish policies to assist in the assessment of civil penalties for administrative
citations.
(2)     Civil penalties shall be assessed immediately for each violation listed on the administrative citation.
The penalties shall be those established in the Consolidated Fee Schedule.
(3)     Payment of the penalty shall not excuse the failure to correct the violations, nor shall it bar further
enforcement action by White City.
Chapter 12.06 Administrative and Judicial Remedies*
12.06.100 Part 1 - Recordation of Notices Of Violation*
12.06.110 Declaration of Purpose*
12.06.120 Authority*
12.06.130 Procedures for Recordation*
12.06.140 Service of Notice of Recordation*
12.06.150 Failure To Request*
12.06.160 Notice of Compliance - Procedures*
12.06.170 Prohibition Against Issuance of Municipal Permits*
12.06.180 Cancellation of Recorded Notice of Violation*
12.06.200 Part 2 - Administrative Civil Penalties*
12.06.210 Authority*
12.06.220 Procedures for Assessing Civil Penalties*
12.06.230 Determination of Civil Penalties*
12.06.240 Modification f Civil Penalties*
12.06.250 Failure To Pay Penalties*
12.06.300 Part 3 – Costs*
12.06.310 Declaration of Purpose*
12.06.320 Authority*
12.06.330 Notification of Assessment Of Reinspection Fees
12.06.340 Failure To Timely Pay Costs*
12.06.400 Part 4 - Administrative Fees*
12.06.410 Administrative Fees*
12.06.500 Part 5 - Injunctions*
12.06.510 CML Violations - Injunctions*
12.06.600 Part 6 - Performance Bonds*
12.06.610 Performance Bond*

12.06.100 Part 1 - Recordation of Notices of Violation*

12.06.110 Declaration Of Purpose*

The Council finds that there is a need for alternative methods of enforcement for violations of White City
Code and applicable state codes that are found to exist on real property. The Council further finds that an
appropriate method of enforcement for these types of violations is the issuance and recordation of notices
of violation.

The procedures established in this Part shall be in addition to criminal, civil, or any other remedy
established by law that may be pursued to address the violation of White City Code or applicable state
codes.

12.06.120 Authority*

Whenever the Director determines that a property or violation has not been brought into compliance as
required in this Title, the Director has the authority, in his or her discretion, to record the notice of violation
or administrative code enforcement order with the County Recorder's Office.

12.06.130 Procedures For Recordation*
(1)     Once the Director has issued a notice of violation to a responsible person, and the property remains
in violation after the deadline established in the notice of violation, and no request for an administrative
hearing has been filed, the Director shall record a notice of violation with the County Recorder's Office.
(2)     If an administrative hearing is held, and an order is issued in White City's favor, the Director shall
record the administrative code enforcement order with the County Recorder's Office.
(3)     The recordation shall include the name of the property owner, the parcel number, the legal
description of the parcel, and a copy of the notice of violation or order.
(4)     The recordation does not encumber the property, but merely places future interested parties on
notice of any continuing violation found upon the property.

12.06.140 Service Of Notice Of Recordation*

A notice of the recordation shall be served on the responsible person and the property owner pursuant to
any of the methods of service set forth in Section 12.1.210 of this Title.

12.06.150 Failure To Request*

The failure of any person to file a request for an administrative code enforcement hearing when served
with a notice of violation shall constitute a waiver of the right to an administrative hearing and shall not
affect the validity of the recorded notice of violation.

12.06.160 Notice of Compliance - Procedures*

(1)    When the violation has been corrected, the responsible person or property owner may request an
inspection of the property from the Director.
(2)    Upon receipt of a request for inspection, the Director shall re-inspect the property as soon as
practicable to determine whether the violations listed in the notice of violation or the order have been
corrected, and whether all necessary permits have been issued and final inspections have been
performed.
(3)    The Director shall serve a notice of satisfaction to the responsible person or property owner as
provided in Section 12.2.210 of this Title, if the Director determines that the violation listed in the recorded
notice of violation or order has been corrected;
(4)    All necessary permits have been issued and finalized;
(5)    All civil penalties assessed against the property have been paid or satisfied; and
(6)    The party requesting the notice of satisfaction has paid all administrative fees and costs.
(7)    If the Director denies a request to issue a notice of satisfaction, upon request, the Director shall
serve the responsible person with a written explanation setting forth the reasons for the denial. The written
explanation shall be served by any of the methods of service listed in Section 12.1.210 of this Title.

12.06.170 Authority to Withhold Issuance of Municipal Permits

If a property is in violation, White City may withhold business licenses; permits for kennels; or permits for
any alteration, repair, or construction pertaining to any existing or new structures or signs on the property,
or any permits pertaining to the use and development of the real property or the structure. White City may
withhold permits until a notice of satisfaction has been issued by the Director. White City may not withhold
permits that are necessary to obtain a notice of satisfaction or that are necessary to correct serious health
and safety violations if violator has otherwise satisfied the compliance standards. Nothing in this section
shall be construed as prohibiting White City from denying a permit if the application is insufficient or denial
is otherwise warranted.
12.06.180 Cancellation Of Recorded Notice Of Violation*

The Director or Responsible Person shall record the notice of satisfaction with the County Recorder's
Office. Recordation of the notice of satisfaction shall cancel the recorded notice of violation.

12.06.200 Part 2 - Administrative Civil Penalties*

12.06.210 Authority*

(1)     Any person violating any provision of White City Code, or applicable state codes, may be subject
to the assessment of civil penalties for each violation.
(2)     Each and every day a violation of any provision of White City Code or applicable state codes
exists is a separate violation subject to the assessment of civil penalties.
(3)     Civil penalties cannot be assessed when a criminal case has been filed for the same date and
violation, because fines will be assessed with the criminal case.
(4)     Interest shall be assessed pursuant to White City policy, or at the judgment rate provided in Utah
        Code
§ 15-1-4 in the absence of White City policy, on all outstanding civil penalties balances until the case has
been paid in full.
(5)     Civil penalties for violations of any provision of White City Code or applicable state codes shall
be assessed pursuant to the White City's applicable fee schedule.

12.06.220 Procedures For Assessing Civil Penalties*

If a responsible person fails to bring a violation into compliance by the required deadline and fails to
request an administrative hearing appealing the notice, civil penalties shall be owed to White City for each
and every subsequent day of violation.

12.06.230 Determination Of Civil Penalties*

(1)    Civil penalties shall be assessed per violation per day pursuant to the applicable White City
fee schedule.
(2)    Civil penalties shall continue to accrue until the violation has been brought into compliance with
White City Code or applicable state codes.

12.06.240 Modification Of Civil Penalties*

(1)    After the property is determined by the Chief Building Official to be in compliance with White City
Municipal Code, the responsible person may request a modification of the civil penalties on a finding of
good cause.
(2)    Civil penalties may be waived or modified by the Administrative Law Judge if there is a finding of
good cause based on the responsible person's claim of nonconforming use or conditional use and:
(3)    White City's need to verify the claim; or
(4)    The responsible person's filing of an application for either use before expiration of the date to
correct.

12.06.250 Failure To Pay Penalties*

The failure of any person to pay civil penalties assessed within the specified time may result in the Director
pursuing any legal remedy to collect the civil penalties as provided in the law.
12.06.300 Part 3 - Costs*

12.06.310 Declaration of Purpose*

(1)     The Council finds that there is a need to recover costs incurred by enforcement officials and other
White City personnel who spend considerable time inspecting and re-inspecting properties throughout
White City in an effort to ensure compliance with White City Code or applicable state codes.
(2)     The Council further finds that the assessment of costs is an appropriate method to recover
expenses incurred for actual costs of abating violations, re-inspection fees, filing fees, attorney fees,
hearing officer fees, title search, and any additional actual costs incurred by White City for each individual
case. The assessment and collection of costs shall not preclude the imposition of any administrative or
judicial civil penalties or fines for violations of White City Code or applicable state codes.

12.06.320 Authority*

(1)   If actual costs are incurred by White City on a property to obtain compliance with provisions of White
City Code and applicable state codes, the Director may assess costs against the responsible person.
(2)   Once a notice of violation has been issued, the property will be inspected one time. Any additional
inspections shall be subject to re-inspection fees pursuant to the applicable White City fee schedule as
adopted in White City's annual budget.

12.06.330 Notification of Assessment of Reinspection Fees

(1)     Notification of any applicable re-inspection fees adopted by White City shall be provided on the
notice of violation served to the responsible person.
(2)     Any re-inspection fees assessed or collected pursuant to this Part shall not be included in any other
costs assessed.
(3)     The failure of any responsible person to receive notice of the re-inspection fees shall not affect the
validity of any other fees imposed under this Part.

12.06.340 Failure To Timely Pay Costs*

The failure of any person to pay assessed costs by the deadline specified in the invoice shall result in a
late fee pursuant to White City policy.

12.06.400 Part 4 - Administrative Fees*

12.06.410 Administrative Fees*

The Director or the Administrative Law Judge is authorized to assess administrative fees for costs incurred
in the administration of this program, such as investigation of violations, preparation for hearings, hearings,
and the collection process. The fee assessed shall be the amount set in the applicable White City fee
schedule.

12.06.600 Part 5 - Injunctions*

12.06.510 Violations - Injunctions*

In addition to any other remedy provided under White City Code or state codes, including criminal
prosecution or administrative remedies, any provision of White City Code may be enforced by injunction
issued in the Third District Court upon a suit brought by White City.

12.06.700 Part 6 - Performance Bonds*
12.06.610 Performance Bond*

(1)    As part of any notice, order, or action, the Director or Administrative Law Judge has the authority
to require responsible persons to post a performance bond to ensure compliance with White City Code,
applicable state codes, or any judicial action.
(2)    If the responsible person fails to comply with the notice, order, or action, the bond will be forfeited
to White City. The bond shall not be used to offset the other outstanding costs and fees associated with
the case.
Chapter 12.08 Recovery of Code Enforcement Penalties and Costs*

12.08.100 Part 1 - Code Enforcement Tax Liens*
12.08.110 Declaration of Purpose*
12.08.120 Procedures for Tax Liens Without A Judgement*
12.08.130 Procedures for Tax Liens With A Judgement*
12.08.140 Cancellation of Code Enforcement Tax Lien*
12.08.200 Part 2 - Writ of Execution*
12.08.201 Recovery of Costs By Writ Of Execution*
12.08.300 Part 3 - Writ of Garnishment*
12.08.310 Recovery of Costs By Writ Of Garnishment*
12.08.400 Part 4 - Allocation of Funds Collected Under Administrative Code Enforcement Hearing
Program*
12.08.410 Abatement Fund*
12.08.420 Repayment of Abatement Fund*
12.08.430 Code Enforcement Administrative Fees And Cost Fund*
12.08.440 Allocation of Civil Penalties*

12.08.100 Part 1 - Code Enforcement Tax Liens*

12.08.110 Declaration Of Purpose*

The Council finds that recordation of code enforcement tax liens will assist in the collection of civil
penalties, administrative costs, actual costs, and administrative fees assessed by the administrative code
enforcement hearing program or judicial orders. The Council further finds that collection of civil penalties,
costs, and fees assessed for code enforcement violations is important in deterring future violations and
maintaining the integrity of White City's code enforcement system. The procedures established in this Part
shall be used to complement existing administrative or judicial remedies that may be pursued to address
violations of White City Code or applicable state codes.

12.08.120 Procedures For Tax Liens Without a Judgement*

(1)    Once White City has abated a property, the Director shall prepare an Itemized Statement of Costs
incurred in the removal and destruction of the violations and deliver them to the Director after completion
of the work of removing the violations.
(2)    The Director shall send, by registered mail to the property owner's last known address, a copy of
the Itemized Statement of Costs informing the property owner that a code enforcement tax lien is being
recorded for the amount of actual costs of abatement. Payment shall be due within 30 calendar days from
the date of mailing.
(3)    Upon receipt of the Itemized Statement of Costs, the Director, shall record a Code Enforcement
Tax Lien against the property with the County Treasurer's office.
(4)    The failure of any person with a financial interest in the property to actually receive the notice of the
lien shall not affect the validity of the lien or any proceedings taken to collect the outstanding costs of
abatement.

12.08.130 Procedures For Tax Liens With A Judgement*

Once a judgment has been obtained from the appropriate court assessing costs against the responsible
person, the Director may record a code enforcement tax lien against any real property owned by the
responsible person.

12.08.140 Cancellation Of Code Enforcement Tax Lien*
Once payment in full is received for the outstanding civil penalties and costs, or the amount is deemed
satisfied pursuant to a subsequent administrative or judicial order, the Director shall either record a Notice
of Satisfaction of Judgment, or provide the Responsible Person, property owner, or financial institution
with the Notice of Satisfaction of Judgment so that it can record this notice with the county recorder's
office. The notice of satisfaction of judgment shall include the same information as provided for in the
original Code Enforcement Tax Lien. Such notice of satisfaction of judgment shall cancel the code
enforcement tax lien.

12.08.200 Part 2 - Writ of Execution*

12.08.201 Recovery of Costs By Writ of Execution*

After obtaining a judgment, the Director may collect the obligation by use of all appropriate legal means.
This may include the execution on personal property owned by the responsible person by filing a writ with
the applicable court.

12.08.300 Part 3 - Writ of Garnishment*

12.08.310 Recovery of Costs By Writ of Garnishment*

After obtaining a judgment, the Director may collect the obligation by use of all appropriate legal means.
This may include the garnishment of paychecks, financial accounts, and other income or financial assets
by filing a writ with the applicable court.

12.08.400 Part 4 - Allocation of Funds Collected Under Administrative Code Enforcement Hearing
Program*

12.08.410 Abatement Fund*

There is established a revolving fund to be known as the "Abatement Fund" to defray costs of
administrative and judicial abatements as provided in Section 12.08.430. The fund shall be reimbursed by
collection from the property or property owner as specified in this Title. The White City Council shall
establish accounting procedures to ensure proper account identification, credit, and collection. This fund
may be operated and used in conjunction with procedures ordered or authorized under the abatement
provision of this Title.

12.08.420 Repayment Of Abatement Fund*

All monies recovered from the sale or transfer of property or by payment for the actual abatement costs
shall be paid to the White City Treasurer, who shall credit the appropriate amount to the Abatement Fund.

12.08.430 Code Enforcement Administrative Fees And Cost Fund*

Administrative fees and administrative costs, except for actual abatement costs, collected pursuant to this
Part shall be deposited in a fund established by the White City Council for the enhancement of White City's
code enforcement efforts and to reimburse White City for investigative costs and costs associated with the
hearing process. Fees and costs deposited in this fund shall be appropriated and allocated in a manner
determined by the White City Council. White City Council shall establish accounting procedures in
consultation with the White City Auditor to ensure proper account identification, credit, and collection.
12.08.440 Allocation Of Civil Penalties*

Civil penalties collected pursuant to this Part shall be deposited in the General Fund of White City. Civil
penalties deposited in this fund shall be appropriated and allocated in a manner determined by the White
City Manager and the White City Council. The White City Council shall establish accounting procedures
to ensure proper account identification, credit, and collection.
