                                           Planning and Development Services
                                           2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                           Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674




                      White City Planning Commission
                                     Public Meeting Agenda

                    Thursday, April 27, 2023 6:00 P.M.
Location
GLACIER HILLS ELEMENTARY SCHOOL GYMNASIUM
1085 EAST GALENA DRIVE, SANDY
(385) 468-6700
 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item, the
  Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and County staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these items,
  which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or recommendation to
  other bodies as applicable.



                                     BUSINESS MEETING

    1) Approval of the March 23, 2023 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes.
       (Motion/Voting)
    2) Other Business Items. (As Needed)

                                    PUBLIC HEARING(S)

OAM2023-000785 – Public Hearing on Drafted Titles 18 and 19 (Zoning & Subdivisions).
The Council and Planning Commission have been working with staff to draft amendments to Title
18 (Subdivisions) and Title 19 (Zoning) of White City Municipal Code. Participants will have the
opportunity to provide feedback on the Titles as drafted. Prior to opening the public hearing, the
Planning Commission will hear a presentation from planning staff regarding the drafted Titles.
This item affects all areas within White City Metro Township. The drafted sections of Title 18 and
Title 19 will be proposed as a repeal and replacement of existing Titles 18 and 19 of Municipal
Code. This item covers ordinance text amendments ONLY. There are no map amendments
proposed at this time. Planner: Erin O’Kelley (Motion/Voting).

If members of the public wish to comment but cannot attend the meeting, comments may be sent
to Wendy Gurr (WGurr@msd.utah.gov).

                                           ADJOURN

April 27, 2023                                                           AGENDA – WHITE CITY METRO PC
             Rules of Conduct for Planning Commission Meetings
PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT

1.   Any person or entity may appear in person or be represented by an authorized agent at any meeting of the
     Commission.

2.   Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the procedure on an application shall be:

     a. The supporting agency staff will introduce the application, including staff’s recommendations and a
        summary of pertinent written comments and reports concerning the application

     b. The applicant will be allowed up to 15 minutes to make their presentation.

     c. The Community Council representative can present their comments as applicable.

     d. Where applicable, persons in favor of, or not opposed to, the application will be invited to speak.

     e. Where applicable, persons opposing the application, in whole or in part will be invited to speak.

     f. Where applicable, the applicant will be allowed 5 minutes to provide concluding statements.

     g. Surrebuttals may be allowed at the discretion of the Chair.

CONDUCT FOR APPLICANTS AND THE PUBLIC

1.   Speakers will be called to the podium by the Chair.

2.   Each speaker, before talking, shall give his or her name and address.

3.   All comments should be directed to the Commissioners, not to the staff or to members of the audience.

4.   For items where there are several people wishing to speak, the Chair may impose a time limit, usually 3
     minutes per person, or 5 minutes for a group spokesperson. If a time limit is imposed on any member or
     spokesperson of the public, then the same time limit is imposed on other members or spokespersons of the
     public, respectively.

5.   Unless otherwise allowed by the Chair, no questions shall be asked by the speaker or Commission Members.

6.   Only one speaker is permitted before the Commission at a time.

7.   The discussion must be confined to essential points stated in the application bearing on the desirability or
     undesirability of the application.

8.   The Chair may cease any presentation or information that has already been presented and acknowledge that it
     has been noted in the public record.

9.   No personal attacks shall be indulged in by either side, and such action shall be sufficient cause for stopping the
     speaker from proceeding.

10. No applause or public outbursts shall be permitted.

11. The Chair or supporting agency staff may request police support to remove offending individuals who refuse to
    abide by these rules.

12. After the public comment portion of a meeting or hearing has concluded, the discussion will be limited to the
    Planning Commission and Staff.




April 27, 2023                                                                       AGENDA – WHITE CITY METRO PC
         Request: Ordinance Amendment                                         File #: OAM2023-000785



                                                   Planning and Development Services
                                                   2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT
                                                   84190-4050 Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385)
                                                   468-6674
                                                   msd.utah.gov




      Ordinance Amendment for Title 18 (Subdivisions) and Title 19
       (Zoning) of the White City Metro Township Municipal Code
       Public Body:             White City Planning Commission
       Meeting Date:            April 27, 2023
       Project Name:            White City Title 18 and Title 19 Revisions
       File Number:             OAM2023-000785
       Areas Affected:          All areas within the White City Metro Township, UT
       MSD Planner:             Erin O’Kelley, Long Range Planner
       Recommendation:          Recommend adoption of Titles 18 and 19, with revisions as outlined, to the
                                White City Metro Township Council.
       Disclaimer:              This application does not involve the rezoning of any properties within the White City
                                Metro Township boundary, only changes to the ordinance regulations.

                                                             SUMMARY
     MSD Planning & Development Services (“PDS”) was tasked by the White City Metro Township Council to
     lead an overhaul of the community’s land use ordinances, including Title 18: Subdivisions and Title 19:
     Zoning. From the summer of 2022 to March 2023, the White City Council (“Council”) and Planning
     Commission (“Commission”) were sent drafted revisions of these ordinances (a total of 40 chapters).
     During the winter of 2023, staff met with the Council three times to facilitate in-depth discussions of the
     drafted ordinances. Staff then tailored the Title 18 and 19 drafts according to the feedback received.
     At the last Planning Commission meetings held in February and March 2023, the Commission finished
     reviewing the summary of changes to the code. The next discussion of Titles 18 and 19 will occur at a
     public hearing, scheduled for April 27th, 2023. At the hearing, the Planning Commission will take
     comments from the public regarding the drafted ordinances. Following the public comment period, the
     Commission may make a recommendation to the Council regarding the adoption of the ordinances as
     drafted. Staff is recommending that the Planning Commission make a recommendation of adoption with
     revisions to the Council, as outlined later in this report.
     The code update goals are as follows.
         1. To remove errors, inconsistencies, or ambiguity. This is to prevent White City’s land use code
            from being challenged in court and will also help build more defensible actions for the Planning
            Commission and Council when making land use decisions.
         2. To update from older, outdated practices. Some of the methods used in the land use code are
            outdated and can cause ambiguity. For example, the methods for measuring setbacks in the
            agricultural zone are to measure 8 feet on each side at a minimum or the sum of both
            measurements is equal to 18 feet. This means 9 feet may be allowed on one side and 9 on the



White City Title 18 and 19 Revisions April 27th 2023                                                      Page 2 of 12
         Request: Ordinance Amendment                                  File #: OAM2023-000785


              other side but shall be no less than 8 feet on each side. This is unnecessarily confusing for
              property owners and can be challenged in court. As a solution, the staff is recommending that
              this be updated to a minimum of 8 feet on each to create clear and concise standards.
         3. To make the code compatible with the new general plan. White City’s code currently has 24
            zones. There are only 4 zones present in White City and the General Plan does not envision any
            of the other existing zones in the future. The staff is recommending this be changed to
            accurately reflect the vision in the General Plan.
                                                       ATTACHMENTS
     The following attachments are included as supplementary materials to the end of this staff report:
         1. Title 18 Public Hearing Draft with Track Changes: the entirety of White City’s drafted
            subdivision ordinance as proposed for adoption.
         2. Title 19 Public Hearing Draft with Track Changes: the entirety of White City’s drafted zoning
            ordinance as proposed for adoption.

                                                       BACKGROUND
     Project Purpose:
     Land Use Ordinances determine the use, development, and subdivision of property within a
     municipality. A municipality’s right to implement land use ordinances is tied to its “Police Power” (or to
     the essential task of protecting public health, safety, and welfare). Private property rights are balanced
     with public needs, in order to ensure safe, equitable, and sustainable development.
     White City Metro Township identified the need to update its land use ordinances, namely Titles 18
     (Subdivisions) and 19 (Zoning) in order to achieve the following:
        • Ensure compliance with State Statute, which restricts the authority and powers of local
        government;
        • Encourage conformity with the White City General Plan, which was adopted in 2022 and sets a
        vision for the community’s future land uses;
        • Promote ease of use for both staff and residents by using clear and concise language and
        incorporating graphics where appropriate; and
        • Meet the unique needs and preserve the character of the White City community.
     Project Timeline:
     Revisions to Titles 18 and 19 took place over eleven months (May 2022 – March 2023) as shown in
     Figure 1. The project included initial data collection (audit), ordinance drafting, internal and external
     review, and discussion at public Planning Commission meetings.
                      Figure 1. Project Timeline – Revisions to White City Titles 18 and 19




White City Title 18 and 19 Revisions April 27th 2023                                             Page 3 of 12
         Request: Ordinance Amendment                                   File #: OAM2023-000785




                                             Credit: MSD Long Range Planning

     Methodology:
     In the first quarter of 2022, Erin O’Kelley (Long Range Planner) performed an in-depth analysis of
     existing Title 19 Ordinances to provide a basis from which the project team could begin their revisions.
     This analysis helped the team understand how much time to allot to various tasks, such as removing
     outdated sections or obsolete zoning districts, consolidating materials for ease of use, and updating
     language to reflect recent legislative changes and the vision of the White City General Plan. Figure 2
     comprehensively portrays the work that staff estimated needed to be completed on White City
     Ordinances.
                           Figure 2. Estimation of White City Title 19 Needed Actions




White City Title 18 and 19 Revisions April 27th 2023                                           Page 4 of 12
         Request: Ordinance Amendment                                   File #: OAM2023-000785




                                             Credit: MSD Long Range Planning
     The bar chart is color-coded to show changes that staff expected to require a low, medium, or high
     effort. Low-effort actions included the removal of certain sections of code that were no longer
     applicable (blue). For example, White City did not need to retain the existing Foothills and Canyons
     Overlay Zone (FCOZ). Medium-effort actions involved moving, reformatting, or consolidating chapters or
     sections of the ordinance, as well as bringing those sections into compliance with State Code (green).
     Finally, high-effort actions were those that required an updating of chapters or sections in order to
     improve standards and requirements or facilitate General Plan implementation (yellow).
     In addition to greater staff expertise being needed for the high-effort changes, it was anticipated that
     those actions would trigger a higher level of engagement from the community. As a general strategy,
     staff elected to draft the ‘High-Effort’ ordinance updates first so that the Planning Commission and
     Council had the most time to look over those sections before adoption. Many of the anticipated High-
     Effort Draft Chapters (namely the Zone Chapters) were included in Phase One, which was sent to the
     community at the beginning of August 2022. Phase Two included several Medium-Effort Draft Chapters.
     Phase Three drafts included the lowest effort chapters, including the Subdivision Ordinance (Title 18). All
     chapters required thorough review and consideration from the community but some, such as Chapter
     19.56 (Floodplain Regulations), did not require a great deal of community-specific revisions.
     Ordinance-Writing Methodology: Staff followed several steps in order to produce the drafted chapters
     presented in Exhibits 1 and 2.
        1. Staff members were assigned various chapters to research. They drew on model codes, planning
        best practices, and existing conditions to draft a “model chapter” that other staff members would
        later use as a basis for code revisions in their own communities (all five Metro Townships went
        through this process simultaneously with White City).
        2. Staff members reviewed each other’s work at weekly Ordinance Update Meetings. Model
        ordinances were revised in response to feedback.
        3. Model Ordinance Chapters were sent to the Smith-Hartvigsen legal team for review.
        4. Staff members revised their model ordinances accordingly.



White City Title 18 and 19 Revisions April 27th 2023                                              Page 5 of 12
         Request: Ordinance Amendment                                  File #: OAM2023-000785


        5. The planner assigned to each community reviewed the Model Ordinance Chapters and tailored
        them to their specific community (in this case, White City). Planners reviewed the community’s
        General Plan, existing ordinances, pre-analysis, and other sources relevant to the community vision.
        6. After revisions were made based on the community’s comments, the final drafts we sent back to
        the Smtih-Hartvigsen legal team for review.


     State Code Requirements:
     State Code §10-9a-Part 5 establishes powers and limitations related to municipal land use ordinances.
     This Section was referenced frequently by staff as they prepared drafted ordinances. The State Code
     provides specific guidance for topics such as amateur radios, conditional uses, residential facilities, and
     accessory dwelling units. State Code language was incorporated into the drafts of Titles 18 and 19 as
     applicable.
     Section 10-9a-501:503 outlines the process for preparing and adopting municipal land use ordinances.
     The Planning Commission is responsible for holding a public hearing to consider any proposed land use
     ordinance or amendment. The hearing must be noticed consistent with State Code §10-9a-205.
     Following the public hearing, the Planning Commission may make a recommendation to the Council
     regarding the adoption of the drafted ordinances. Only the Council (as the legislative body) can make a
     final decision on the ordinances.
     Decision-Making Authority:
     The White City Council, as the municipality’s legislative body, has the final authority to make a decision
     regarding the drafted ordinances. However, the Council must first receive a recommendation from the
     Planning Commission. Following the April 27th public hearing, the Commission may make a motion to:
        • Recommend adoption of Titles 18 and 19 as drafted;
        • Recommend adoption of Titles 18 and 19 with revisions; or
        • Recommend that Titles 18 and 19 not be adopted.


                                                  ORDINANCE CONTENT
     Sections:
     The drafted land use ordinances (Titles 18 and 19) include the following Chapters (with brief
     descriptions):
     Title 18 Subdivisions (Entirety): Title 18 has been significantly revised for state code compliance and
     consistency with planning best practices. Subdivision application requirements and procedures were
     clarified. A new, streamlined process was added for subdivisions of five or fewer lots. The Director or
     Designee is proposed to be the final approval authority on these small subdivisions. An optional concept
     plan review step was added to the subdivision process, allowing the applicant to obtain feedback and
     familiarize themselves with requirements before submitting a preliminary plat application. Additional
     subdivision design standards were included to promote quality development.
     Title 19 Chapters
         1. Chapter 19.02 Title, Purpose, and Applicability: this chapter is much shorter than the existing
            Chapter 19.02 and explains the new format of the zoning ordinance.



White City Title 18 and 19 Revisions April 27th 2023                                              Page 6 of 12
         Request: Ordinance Amendment                                  File #: OAM2023-000785


         2. Chapter 19.04 Definitions: rather than defining terms in each individual chapter of Titles 18 and
            19, staff relocated all definitions to this single chapter. Where possible, terms and definitions
            were consolidated to reduce redundancy and improve readability.
         3. Chapter 19.06 Nonconformities: this Chapter contains the regulations regarding nonconforming
            uses and structures found in existing Chapter 19.88. There were not any substantive changes to
            this content.
         4. Chapter 19.08 Enforcement: most language related to enforcement is being moved to Title 12 of
            the Municipal Code. This Chapter was significantly shortened and largely references the Title 12
            materials.
         5. Chapter 19.10 Procedures for Analyzing Takings: this language is derived from state code;
            minimal changes were made to the existing Ordinance.
         6. Chapter 19.12 Administrative Bodies, Powers, and Duties: this Chapter combines all sections
            related to authorities and their powers, including the existing Chapter on Planning Commissions,
            into one comprehensive Chapter. The Chapter defines the roles of the Land Use Hearing Officer
            (an Administrative Law Judge) and Planning and Development Services Director. Language
            related to these roles was previously scattered throughout the ordinance or not included at all.
         7. Chapter 19.14 Establishment of Zones, Maps, and Zone Boundaries: the list of zones
            established was updated to reflect both newly created zones and those that were removed for
            the community.
         8. Chapter 19.16 Land Use Processes and Procedures: all provisions related to land use processes
            and procedures, including permitted and conditional use application processes, were combined
            into this Chapter. Clear application standards are articulated for each type of land use
            application.
         9. Chapter 19.18 Planned Unit Developments (Removed): this Chapter has been removed from
            the ordinance and is now “reserved” for future use. We don’t anticipate any PUDs being
            developed in White City.
         10. Chapter 19.20 Variances, Exceptions, and Appeals: this Chapter combines all standards related
             to variances, exceptions, and appeals in one place.
         11. Chapter 19.22 Parks and Open Space Zones: this new chapter creates a zoning district
             specifically for park spaces, with recreation as the primary goal. This zone is intended for
             application on White City’s existing park spaces.
         12. Chapter 19.26 Agricultural Zones: Standards in this zone were simplified and clarified, and the
             chapter now emphasizes single-family development with small-scale agricultural uses. The A-2
             zone still has similar regulations to the existing ordinance and the ordinance in Salt Lake County
             to continue compatibility with existing uses on properties.
         13. Chapter 19.28 Single-Family Residential Zones: staff removed the R-1 Zones less than 8,000
             square feet to prevent increased density in residential areas. Several standards were added to
             this Chapter, including standards for accessory structures, fencing, and lot development.
         14. Chapter 19.30 Medium Density Residential Zones: R-2, and R-4 Zones were combined into a
             single chapter. Incompatible uses were removed from the zoning districts and development
             standards were added to ensure that any new development in these zones is compatible with
             the surrounding neighborhood.




White City Title 18 and 19 Revisions April 27th 2023                                             Page 7 of 12
         Request: Ordinance Amendment                                 File #: OAM2023-000785


         15. Chapter 19.32 Commercial Zones: staff removed the C-V and the C-3 Zone from Chapter as they
             are not currently applied in the community and is unlikely to be needed in the future. The C-1
             Zone was re-imagined as a smaller-scale commercial zone. The C-2 Zone is now intended
             primarily for shopping centers with appropriate standards regarding form. Development
             standards previously missing from the ordinance were added to this Chapter, including lot size
             and frontage, build-to-line, walkway, and architectural standards.
         16. Chapter 19.34 Manufacturing Zones(removed): this Chapter has been removed from the
             ordinance and is now “reserved” for future use. We don’t anticipate any manufacturing being
             developed in White City.
         17. Chapter 19.36 Mixed-Use Zones: two new mixed-use zones were drafted for White City. The
             NMU Zone allows for the vertical and horizontal mixing of residential, commercial, and civic uses
             at a small, neighborhood scale. The CMU Zone is intended for transit corridors and allows for a
             greater intensity of mixed-use to support housing and commercial needs where such uses can
             be supported by the existing infrastructure.
         18. Chapter 19.42 Specific Use Standards: this Chapter is new but does carry some of the previous
             standards from Supplementary and Qualifying Regulations. Development standards were added
             for specific uses to encourage quality development, reduce any negative externalities associated
             with the use, and promote harmonious uses across the community. The standards are intended
             to regulate those items which the community would typically be concerned with during a
             conditional use review. Regulating each use through detailed standards allows the community
             to reduce its reliance on conditional uses and clearly communicate expectations to potential
             developers.
         19. Chapter 19.44 Temporary Use Standards: regulations related to temporary uses (such as
             fireworks or Christmas tree sales) were updated and combined into this single chapter.
         20. Chapter 19.46 Site Development Standards: this is a new chapter that combines provisions
             related to site development that were scattered across Title 19; it adds additional standards to
             improve the safety, efficiency, and quality of new development.
         21. Chapter 19.48 Off-Street Parking and Loading: this chapter makes several changes to the
             existing ordinance, including organizing the required number of off-street parking spaces into a
             single table based on land use, adding parking maximums, addressing vehicle stacking and
             loading spaces, and articulating mobility and pedestrian circulation standards for parking lots.
         22. Chapter 19.50 Landscaping and Screening: the Landscaping Chapter was modified to include
             additional language on water-wise landscaping, landscaping of parking lots, and tree
             replacement standards.
         23. Chapter 19.52 Signs: this Chapter was significantly revised to achieve consistency with recent
             federal case law. In addition, lists of exempt and prohibited signs were expanded to reflect
             planning best practices, prevent unnecessary sign clutter, improve safety, and protect
             community character. Pole signs were prohibited, and language regarding sign permitting was
             clarified.
         24. Chapter 19.56 Flood Plain Regulations: this Chapter was updated to match current FEMA
             standards.
         25. Chapter 19.58 Geological Hazards: the Geologic Hazards Chapter retains the same content as
             what is existing in Title 19, but has been renumbered and reformatted to match the rest of the



White City Title 18 and 19 Revisions April 27th 2023                                            Page 8 of 12
         Request: Ordinance Amendment                                     File #: OAM2023-000785


              drafted ordinances.
     Key Revisions:
     Staff worked with the Council to tailor drafts of Title 18 and 19 to the needs of White City. A few of the
     notable, community-specific revisions include:
     1. Creation of a mixed-use zoning district for the 106th Corridor.
     2. Creation of a parks and recreation zoning district to protect park destinations within White City
     (Chapter 19.22).
                                                       STAFF ANALYSIS
     Compatibility with Existing Plans and Ordinances:
     Staff frequently referred to the adopted White City General Plan as they prepared Titles 18 and 19. This
     is most evident in the revisions made to White City’s zoning districts, which reflect the character areas
     (future land uses) identified in the Land Use Chapter of the General Plan (see Figure 3).
     The new Parks and Recreation Zone can be applied to areas such as Bear Park, while the mixed-use
     zones are tailored for the 106th Corridor. The map shown in Figure 3 was also used by staff in
     determining which zoning districts could be eliminated from Title 19 (those that are not currently
     applied and are unlikely to be desired in the future).
                   Figure 3. Future Land Use Map in the White City General Plan (page 69)




White City Title 18 and 19 Revisions April 27th 2023                                             Page 9 of 12
         Request: Ordinance Amendment                                     File #: OAM2023-000785




              Open Space                 Agriculture             Residential Low-Density
                  th
              106 Corridor               Commercial
                                               Credit: White City General Plan, 2022
     Integration of Staff and Partner Comments:
     The Council and Planning Commission had several opportunities to review and provide feedback on
     drafted chapters. As each phase of ordinances was sent to the Commission and Council, members were
     asked to call or email the planning team with questions or comments. Once all the chapters had been
     drafted and sent out, the planning team began meeting with the Council at public meetings. Feedback
     received from the Council during these meetings was incorporated into Titles 18 and 19 as presented in
     Exhibits 1 and 2.
     In addition to the Commission and Council, the drafted ordinances were reviewed by several other
     entities:
         •    The Greater Salt Lake Municipal Service District’s (MSD’s) Current Planning team reviewed and
              commented on all ordinances.
         •    The Smith-Hartvigsen legal team reviewed and commented on all ordinances.



White City Title 18 and 19 Revisions April 27th 2023                                           Page 10 of 12
         Request: Ordinance Amendment                                  File #: OAM2023-000785



         •    The Salt Lake County District Attorney’s Office reviewed and provided feedback on the sign
              ordinance (Chapter 19.52).
         •    The International Sign Association and Sign Research Foundation reviewed and provided
              feedback on the sign ordinance (Chapter 19.52).
         •    The Salt Lake County Surveyor’s Office reviewed and commented on all of Title 18: Subdivisions.
         •    Salt Lake County Engineering Staff reviewed and provided feedback on Title 18 and the Off-
              Street Parking Standards (Chapter 19.48).
         •    The MSD’s Code Enforcement Officers reviewed Title 19 for possible improvements to the
              language regarding weeds, parking, and junk.
     Generally, the feedback from these entities was positive. Their questions and recommendations allowed
     staff to further vet the drafted ordinances and craft improvements. All comments have been
     incorporated into the public hearing drafts of Titles 18 and 19.
     Consistency with State Code Requirements:
     State Code requirements related to land use ordinances are found in Part 5 of State Code §10-9a. The
     staff incorporated all state provisions up to January 1st, 2023. Over the past few months, the Utah
     Legislature made additional changes to state code that impact land use ordinances. Not all of these
     changes have been addressed; thus, staff is asking that the Commission make a recommendation of
     adoption with revisions. The planning team and Smith-Hartvigsen legal team will do a final review for
     state-code consistency prior to presenting the ordinances to the Council for adoption.
     Anticipated Impacts:
     The goals of this project were to:
         •    Ensure compliance with State Statute;
         •    Encourage conformity with the White City General Plan;
         •    Promote ease of use for both staff and residents; and
         •    Meet the unique needs and preserve the character of White City.
     Staff has sought to uphold these goals by frequently referencing the General Plan during drafting,
     working closely with their legal team, incorporating graphics and clear language, and reaching out to
     staff and stakeholders for additional feedback.
     It is possible that adoption of Titles 18 and 19 would create some non-conforming uses in White City.
     However, it should be noted that any use legally established prior to the adoption date of the
     ordinances is allowed to continue (even if the owner of the property changes). For the most part, staff
     tried to prevent the creation of non-conforming uses by crafting ordinances that match existing
     conditions.
                                               NEIGHBORHOOD RESPONSE
     At the February and March Planning Commission meetings, staff received the following comments
     regarding the agricultural zone in the draft code:
         •    To be compatible with existing development, accessory structures in the A-2 should be allowed
              to be a maximum of 14,000 square feet per accessory structure.
         •    The maximum lot coverage for all buildings on the property should be restored back to 70%,



White City Title 18 and 19 Revisions April 27th 2023                                            Page 11 of 12
         Request: Ordinance Amendment                                     File #: OAM2023-000785


              which is currently allowed in the A-2 zone.
         •    The following uses should be permitted uses in the agricultural zone (they are already there and
              were removed by staff): dog breeding, manure spreading, processing and sales, fertilizer and soil
              conditioner, bed and breakfast, animal hospital, egg candling and sales, dog pound, dog kennel,
              dog training school, daycare/preschool,
         •    The maximum height for accessory structures should be 35 feet, similar to the maximum height
              for residential uses.
                                                STAFF RECOMMENDATION
     The project team has thoroughly reviewed the drafted Title 18 and 19 Ordinances. In addition, the draft
     was sent to additional MSD departments, outside partners, and the Commission and Council for
     comment. Based on their review and analysis, staff finds that:
     1. The drafted ordinances further the goals of the General Plan, including promoting consistency with
     the White City Future Land Use Map.
     2. The drafted ordinances meet existing state code requirements but will need additional revision to
     come into compliance with recently passed bills, including:
     a. HB 406 – changes made to the subdivision process and to bonding.
     b. HB 450 – slight revisions to municipal land use authority regarding water-efficient landscaping.
     3. The Planning Commission and Council received all drafted Chapters in December 2022, and have had
     the opportunity to provide feedback to staff virtually and in-person.
     4. The revisions to Titles 18 and 19 are expected to meet the project goals identified by the Council and
     project team. Any non-conformities created will be able to continue into the future (even if a change in
     ownership occurs) so long as they were legally established prior to the adoption of revised Titles 18 and
     19.
     Given the above findings, staff recommends that the Planning Commission make a:
     Recommendation of adoption with revisions which include incorporating new state code language in
     HB 406 and 450 and making any other grammar, formatting, or referencing revisions as needed to
     prepare the final drafts for adoption.
                                                       NEXT STEPS
     Following the public hearing and a recommendation by the Planning Commission, the Council will
     review the staff report and recommended changes to Titles 18 and 19 at the next available council
     meeting. The Council may adopt, adopt with revisions, or not adopt Titles 18 and 19. If adopted, the
     drafted ordinances will replace all of the existing Titles 18 and 19, as well as select provisions in Titles 9,
     12, and 14. This item represents a text amendment ONLY and does not include any revision to White
     City’s official zoning maps.




White City Title 18 and 19 Revisions April 27th 2023                                                 Page 12 of 12
                                        Title 18 Subdivisions

Chapter 18.02 Title, Purpose and Applicability
18.02.010 - Title.
This Title shall be known as "The Subdivision Ordinance of White City Metro Township and may be so
cited and pleaded. This title shall also be known as Title 18, the White City Metro Township Subdivision
Ordinance.

18.02.020 - Purpose.
This ordinance is intended to promote the health, safety, morals, order, prosperity and welfare of the
inhabitants of White City Metro Township which includes:

A. To facilitate the orderly development of the municipality;

B. To secure efficiency in governmental expenditures;

C. To implement the municipality’s transportation plan;

D. To facilitate the development of a safe and efficient street system;

E. To facilitate the orderly transfer of the ownership of building sites in a manner consistent with state
   law;

F. To ensure adequate water, sewer, drainage, utilities, and other services to developing areas of the
   municipality; and

G. To establish the rights, duties, and responsibilities of subdividers with respect to the development of
   subdivisions within the municipality.

18.04.010 - Subdivision Plats Required.
No person shall subdivide, as defined by Chapter 19.04 of this Ordinance, any tract of land within the
jurisdictional limits of the municipality; nor shall any person sell, exchange, purchase or otherwise
convey a parcel of land which is part of a larger tract if such sale or agreement would have the effect of
creating a "subdivision" as defined by this Ordinance, unless and until a final plat, prepared in
accordance with the provisions of this title, shall have been reviewed and approved by the appropriate
decision making body consistent with this title and recorded in the office of the county recorder.

18.02.030 - Applicability.
All land within the jurisdictional limits of White City Metro Township is subject to the provisions of this
Title.
18.02.040 – Severability.
If any provision of this Title is adjudged by any court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, that
judgment does not affect, impair, invalidate or nullify the remaining provisions of this Title. The effect of
the judgment is confined to the provision immediately involved in the controversy in which the
judgment or decree was rendered.




White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)                Page 1 of 48
                   Chapter 18.04 Subdivision Plans and Plats Required
18.04.020 – Exemption from Plat Requirements.
A. Agricultural lot splits that comply with the following standards are exempt from plat requirements:

    1. The property qualifies as land in agricultural use under section 59-2-502 of the Utah code; and

    2. Each lot will comply with the minimum lot size requirement of the applicable zone in which the
       property is located; and

    3. The property does not contain any existing residential units and will not be used for
       nonagricultural purposes; and

    4. The boundaries of each lot or parcel shall be graphically illustrated on a record of survey map, in
       accordance with Section 17.-23-17 of Utah State Code, that is presented to the municipality.
       Upon approval of the parcel by the Director or Designee the record of survey map shall be
       recorded with the Salt Lake County recorder Surveyor in addition to a subsequent notice of
       interest referring to the affected parcels and record of survey index with the Salt Lake County
       Recorder.

B. Parcel boundary adjustments are exempt from plat requirements. A "parcel boundary adjustment"
   means a recorded agreement between owners of adjoining properties adjusting their mutual
   boundary if:

    1. No additional parcel is created; and

    2. Each property identified in the agreement is unsubdivided land, including a remainder of
       subdivided land.

18.04.030 – Lots Created by Metes and Bounds Description.

A. In order to ensure the accurate location of property lines and the location of future construction and
   land uses withing those property lines; ensure the orderly dedication of rights of way for public
   thoroughfares; and facilitate the orderly transfer of ownership of buildable lots, no property created
   by a “metes and bounds” description and recorded with the Salt Lake County Recorder shall be
   considered eligible for the issuance of a building permit unless:In order to ensure the accurate
   location of property lines and the location of future construction and land uses within those
   property lines; and in order to ensure the orderly dedication of rights of way for public
   thoroughfares; and in order to facilitate the orderly transfer of ownership of buildable lots, no
   property created by a "metes and bounds" description and recorded with the Salt Lake County
   Recorder shall be considered eligible for the issuance of a building permit unless:
    1. The property is recognized as a legal lot of record by the Director or Designee, meets all current
       zoning standards, and a plat describing such parcel of land is approved by the community
       development director or his or her designee and recorded with the Salt Lake County Recorder;
       or
    2. The property has been recognized by the Director or Designee as a legal nonconforming lot of
       record, a plat describing such parcel of land is approved by the Director or Designee and the plat
       is recorded with the Salt Lake County Recorder.



White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)               Page 2 of 48
B. A plat authorized by this section shall be prepared in accordance with Final Plat requirements of this
   Title. The improvements required by this Title 14 and 18 of this ordinance shall be installed at the
   landowner’s expense.
C. If a property qualifies as a legal lot of record or a legal nonconforming lot of record and is already
   developed with a dwelling unit, no plat shall be required. However, a street dedication may still be
   required.
18.04.040 – Development Agreements.

A. The applicant/property owner and the municipality may choose to enter into a development
   agreement that outlines the duties, responsibilities, obligations, commitments and promises of the
   applicant/property owner and the commitments of the municipality.

B. A development agreement does not exempt an applicant from complying with this Subdivision
   Ordinance or any part of the Development Code unless such an exemption is clearly contained
   within the executed development agreement.

C. If a development agreement restricts an applicant’s rights under clearly established state law, the
   municipality shall disclose in writing to the applicant the rights of the applicant the development
   agreement restricts.

    0.1. It is the policy of White City Metro Township that is the municipality fails to disclose a restrited
         right in accordance with State Code, the entirety of the development agreement shall be
         considered null and void. The applicant and municipality may choose to enter into a new
         agreement.

D. The development agreement shall be recorded by the municipality at the Salt Lake County
   Recorder's office. Recordation by the municipality shall only take place after all of the necessary
   signatures are obtained, all approvals given, and all bonds and fees posted. The development
   agreement must be recorded prior to the recording of the final plat.

D.E.Any development agreement entered into by an applicant and the municipality shall comply with
    the provisions identified in Utah Code 10-9a-532.

Chapter 18.06 - General Regulations
18.06.010 -Time Limits.
Subdivision applications are subject to expiration according to the following schedule unless, for good
cause shown, the applicant is granted an extension of time by the Director:

A. A subdivision application expires if the applicant has not filed all of the required documents for
   preliminary plat approval with Planning and Development Services within six (6) months of the
   submission of a complete application.
B. A preliminary plat approval expires if a complete final plat application is not submitted to Planning
   and Development Services within one (1) year of the preliminary plat approval.




White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)                 Page 3 of 48
C. A preliminary subdivision with an approved phasing plan is granted an automatic preliminary
   subdivision extension of one (1) year each time a complete final plat application for one or more
   phases is submitted.
D. A subdivision application expires if the final plat has not been recorded with the Salt Lake County
   Recorder’s Office within six (6) months of the date of the mayor’s signature on the plat.
E. Failure to pursue an application, as evidenced by failure to file a complete application, the lack of
   timely resubmittals to the Development Review Committee’s comments and corrections, or failure
   to communicate delays in a timely manner, shall results in the expiration of the application after six
   (6) months.
18.06.020 -Exceptions—Permitted When.
A. In cases where unusual topographic, aesthetic or other exceptional conditions exist or the welfare,
    best interests and safety of the general public will be usefully served or protected, variations and
    exceptions of this Title may be made by the Council after the recommendation of the Planning
    Commission, provided, that such variations and exceptions may be granted without substantial
    detriment to the public good and without substantially impairing the intent and purpose of this
    Title.
B. Any variation or exception recommended by the Planning Commission must be based on a
    recommendation by the municipal engineer as to whether:
C. Strict adherence to this ordinance is not in keeping with sound engineering practice;
    1. The variation or exception that is the minimal variation or exception to this ordinance to keep
         with sound engineering practice; and
    2. The variation or exception is associated with a specific hardship at a specific location and not a
         generally applicable condition.

18.06.030 -Appeals.
The applicant or any person adversely affected by a final decision on a subdivision shall have the right to
appeal the decision to the Land Use Hearing Officer by filing a letter to the Land Use Hearing Officer
stating the reasons for appeal within ten (10) days after the decision. The Land Use Hearing Officer shall
review the record and the decision to determine whether the decision was arbitrary, capricious, or
illegal. After hearing the appeal, the Land Use Hearing Officer may affirm, reverse, alter or remand the
decision for further consideration.

Chapter 18.08 – Procedure for Approval of a Subdivision
18.08.010 -Approval Authority.
A. The Director is the land use authority for all preliminary plat approvals of five (5) or fewer lots that
    does not include:
B. The creation of a new public or private street or road, and/or

C. A request to amend or waive certain public improvement requirements found in Chapter 18.12.

D.A.   The Planning Commission Council shall be the land use authority for subdivisions that do not
    require legislative action.




White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)                Page 4 of 48
E.B. The Council may approve a legislative action and a subdivision plat simultaneously if a
     recommendation for both the legislative action and the subdivision plat have been made by the
     Planning Commission.

18.08.020 - Review Procedures – Director to Administer.
In order to ensure that each subdivision fully complies with the provisions of this Title, the Director or
Designee shall administer formal application and review procedures for subdivisions. An application
shall not be deemed complete until the full application, fees and all required materials have been
submitted to Planning and Development Services. The payment of a partial fee and submission of
conceptual plans for a pre-submittal review does not constitute a complete application.

18.08.030 – Development Review Committee.
The Development Review Committee (DRC) is the Planning and Development Services Staff, in
consultation with agencies with statutory review and approval authority for engineering, health, fire,
and surveying reviews and services. Comments from other affected entities, service providers or other
reviewing agencies may also be solicited as needed. The development review committee is an extension
of the Director and serves as the Director’s Designee with the following responsibilities:
A. Establish subdivision application forms, checklists and standard operating procedures;
B. Review development applications including concept plans, subdivisions, commercial site plans and
   project plans;
C. Provide recommendations to the Planning Commission and/or Council regarding development
   applications that require their approval;
D. Review subdivision final plats and construction drawings, and to approve, approve with conditions
   or deny final plats and construction drawings; and
E. Hold preconstruction meetings for approved subdivision plats and other applicable development
   projects.
18.08.040 – Subdivision Procedure Generally.
The applicant shall prepare and submit a land use application, including fees, in accordance with this
Title and Planning and Development Services policy. The applicant may submit a concept plan. While the
concept plan is optional except under the circumstances provided herein, a preliminary and a final plat
are required.

18.08.050 - Concept Plan.
A. Except as otherwise stated in this Title, a Concept Plan review is not a mandatory step.
B. The purpose of a Concept Plan review is to provide a potential applicant with an economical way to
    work with the planning staff and elected officials in reaching a general agreement as to the nature of
    a proposed land subdivision project, its impact on the community, and its conformance with the
    codes, ordinances, plans and policies. For the Concept Plan review, the potential applicant will not
    need detailed architectural or engineering drawings.
C. An applicant may submit a concept plan if the applicant desires to obtain input from Planning and
    Development Services Staff or the Council prior to undertaking the preparation and submission of a
    complete preliminary plat.




White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)                Page 5 of 48
D. Prior to a Concept Plan review, the applicant shall submit to the Director or Designee a complete
   Concept Plan application, including documents, fees, any items specified under Section 18.10.020,
   and any other matter appropriately required by the Development Review Committee.
E. When the Concept Plan application is complete and accepted by the Director or Designee, the date
   of acceptance will be noted. The Development Review Committee shall, within fifteen (15) business
   days of the date of acceptance, schedule a meeting to review the concept plan and give initial
   feedback.
F. Where the applicant owns or controls more territory than they propose to submit for preliminary or
   final approval, or under circumstances where the proposed subdivision is part of a larger project or
   territory which the applicant owns or controls and which includes property in more than one zone,
   the Director may require that a concept plan covering the larger area be submitted. The concept
   plan for the larger area shall show how the immediate development relates:
   1. Possible development of the remaining territory,
   2. The municipality’s adopted transportation or street plan; and
   3. The provision of other public services, utilities and facilities.
G. If the Director concludes that, because of the scope or complexity of a proposed project, the
   proposal should be reviewed by the Council at the concept plan stage, they may direct that the plan
   be forwarded for review by the Council prior to the preparation of the preliminary plat.
H. Any review of a concept plan by the Council shall be considered as advisory only and shall not
   constitute a commitment of approval of a subsequent preliminary plat or final plat.

18.08.060 – Preliminary Plat Application.
A. Application. The applicant shall submit a preliminary plat application to the Planning and
    Development Services Division, which shall include:
    1. Submission of an approved application form that clearly indicates the type of application,
       property address, applicant information, and other pertinent information;
    2. Submission of a Preliminary Plat and other drawings and documentation conforming to the
       requirements of Section 18.10.030, technical reports in accordance with Section 18.10.050,
       supplementary materials as required by this Title and mailing labels (if required) for
       notifications; and
    3. Authorization for application submittal from the Property Owner or Authorized Agent.
B. Completeness Review.
    1. The Preliminary Plat application shall be carefully reviewed by the Planning and Development
       Services Division to determine whether or not it is complete.
    2. If it is concluded that the Preliminary Plat application is not complete, the Director or Designee
       shall notify the applicant in writing within fourteen (14) days:
       a. That the application is incomplete; and
       b. The specific components of the application deemed insufficient.
    3. Upon notice being given, an application deemed incomplete shall be terminated after sixty (60)
       days if the necessary components to complete the application have not been submitted.
    4. At any time during the completeness review process outlined in this subsection, a pre-
       application meeting may be requested by the applicant or Director or Designee to discuss the
       application, plans, and anticipated review process. In order to facilitate efficiency of the review




White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)              Page 6 of 48
      process, the Director or Designee may invite representatives from other reviewing agencies as
      well as the applicant’s design professionals to the meeting.
C. Complete Application.
   1. When the preliminary plat application is determined to include all the of the required
      documentation, plans, plats, reports and other required submittals, the Director will release the
      fees for the applicant to pay.
   2. When the applicant has paid the required fees, the application is complete, and the application
      will be deemed accepted by the Director or Designee. The date of acceptance will be noted for
      the record.

18.08.070 – Preliminary Plat Agency/DRC Review.
A. The purpose of a preliminary plat is to provide a review of a proposed subdivision prior to approval
    by the land use authority. It is intended that this review will help assure that the plans which are
    being prepared are in accordance with all applicable development codes and ordinances.
B. The Director shall review or cause to be reviewed, the complete preliminary plat application as
    follows:
    1. For every submittal, the Development Review Committee shall have at least fifteen (15)
         business days for review of the preliminary plat, and preparation of review comments.
    2. The Director or Designee shall review the application materials, plans, plats and technical
         documents for compliance with municipal land use ordinances, codes and adopted plans and
         specifications and other technical requirements. As part of this review, the Director or Designee
         may conduct one or more on-site reviews, as provided by Utah Code 10-9a-303.
    3. The Director or Designee shall refer the application materials, plans, plats and technical
         documents to the Development Review Committee and any other government agency and/or
         affected entity which the Director deems necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare of
         the public and to ensure the project’s compliance with all applicable ordinances, codes and
         adopted plans and specifications and other technical requirements.
    4. Multiple reviews and submittals may be required based on the accuracy of the plat, drawings
         and plans, consistency with the applicable municipal land use ordinances and codes, state and
         federal law, and adherence to the requirements of the adopted plans and specifications and
         other technical requirements. In processing reviews and submittals, the municipality will adhere
         to the standards for subdivision review cycles, as articulated in Utah State Code §10-9a-604.2.
    5. Upon preliminary approval by the Development Review Committee, the Director or Designee
         shall schedule the application for review by the land use authority.

18.08.080 – Preliminary Plat Approval or Disapproval.
A. Following a review of the preliminary plat, the land use authority, as designated in Section
    18.08.010, shall act on the preliminary plat as submitted or modified.
B. In reviewing the proposed subdivision, the land use authority shall consider the following:
    1. Are the plans, documents and other submission materials (including technical reports where
        required) sufficiently detailed for proper consideration of the project?
    2. Do the submitted plans, documents and submission materials conform to applicable municipal
        standards?




White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)              Page 7 of 48
     3. Does the proposed development conform to municipal zoning ordinances and subdivision
          design standards?
     4. Does any combination of natural or manmade conditions, encumbrances, easements, setbacks,
          geometry, or the dimensions of the lot leave an adequate buildable area for a reasonably sized
          main structure?
     5. Do any natural or manmade conditions exist on or in the vicinity of the site defined in the
          preliminary plat that, without remediation, would render part or all of the property unsuitable
          for development? Does the preliminary plat address these conditions?
     6. Does the preliminary plat provide for safe and convenient traffic circulation and road access to
          adjacent properties under all weather conditions?
     7. Does the preliminary plat impose an undue financial burden upon the municipality?
     8. Are the location and arrangement of the lots, roads, easements and other elements of the
          subdivision contemplated by the preliminary plat consistent with the municipality’s general
          street system, transportation master plan and/or applicable elements of the general plan?
     9. Does the preliminary plat recognize and accommodate the existing natural conditions?
     10. Are the public facilities, including public utility systems serving the area defined in the
          preliminary plat adequate to serve the proposed development?
     11. Will the project contemplated in the preliminary plat conform to the purpose and intent of this
          Title as stated in Chapter 18.02 of this Title?
C.   The land use authority may:
     1. Approve the preliminary plat,
     2. Approve the preliminary plat with reasonable conditions intended to ensure compliance with
          the standards and objectives of the applicable zone and this Title,
     3. Continue review of the preliminary plat, directing that changes be made to the preliminary plat
          so that it conforms with the standards and objectives of the applicable zone and this Title, or
     4. Deny the preliminary plat because it does not meet the standards and objectives of the
          applicable zone and this Title.
D.   If the plat conforms with the standards and objectives of the applicable zone and this Title and has
     been approved by the culinary water authority and the sanitary sewer authority, or the local health
     department where culinary water or sanitary sewer services is not available, the land use authority
     shall approve the preliminary plat.
E.   If the preliminary plat is not approved, the Director or Designee shall notify the applicant in writing
     and give reasons for the denial.
F.   The Director or Designee shall issue a preliminary plat approval letter with the conditions of
     approval and a copy of the approved preliminary plat. The receipt of said letter shall be
     authorization for the subdivider to proceed with the preparation of specifications for the minimum
     improvements required in Chapter 18.24 of this Title and with the preparation of the final plat.

18.08.090 – Submittal of the Final Plat, Engineering Drawings and Documents to the Development
Review Committee for Final Plat Approval.
A. Purpose. The purpose of the final plat of a subdivision is to present an accurate depiction of the
    layout of the subdivision so that it can be properly recorded and then used as a permanent
    reference for the sale of the property included within the Subdivision. The purpose of the final plat




White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)                Page 8 of 48
   review is to ensure that the plat and the construction plans for the required improvements meet the
   applicable standards and specifications.
B. Application.
   1. The applicant shall submit a Final plat application to the Planning and Development Services
        Division, which shall include:
        a. Submission of an application form, as designed by the Director to clearly indicate the type of
            application, property address, applicant information, and other pertinent information;
        b. Submission of a Final Plat and other drawings and documentation conforming to the
            requirements of Section 18.10.040, technical reports in accordance with Section 18.10.050,
            engineered construction plans for the improvements required in Chapter 18.14, and
            supplementary materials as may be required by this Title; and
        c. Authorization for application submittal from the property owner authorized agent.
   2. Completeness Review.
        a. The final plat application shall be carefully reviewed by the Planning and Development
            Services Division to determine whether or not it is complete.
        b. If it is concluded that the Final plat application is not complete, the Director or Designee
            shall notify the applicant in writing within fourteen (14) days:
   3. That the application is incomplete, and
   4. The specific components of the application are deemed insufficient.
        a. Upon notice being given, an application deemed incomplete shall be terminated after 60
            days if the necessary components to complete the application have not been submitted.
        b. At any time during the completeness review process outlined in this subsection, a pre-
            application meeting may be requested by the applicant or Director or Designee to discuss
            the application, plans, and anticipated review process. In order to facilitate efficiency of the
            review process, the Director or Designee may invite representatives from other reviewing
            agencies as well as the applicant’s design professionals to the meeting.
   5. Complete Application.
        a. When the final plat application is determined to include all the of the required
            documentation, plans, plats, reports and other required submittals, the Director or Designee
            will release the fees for the applicant to pay.
        b. When the applicant has paid the required fees, the application submittal is complete, and
            the application will be deemed accepted by the Director or Designee. The date of
            acceptance will be noted for the record.
C. Technical Review of the Final Plat and Construction Documents. The Director or Designee shall
   review or cause to be reviewed, the complete final plat application and Construction Documents as
   follows:
   1. For every submittal, the Development Review Committee shall have at least fifteen (15)
        business days for review of plat and/or construction plans, and preparation of review
        comments.
   2. The Director or Designee shall review the application materials, plans, plats and technical
        documents for compliance with municipal land use ordinances, codes and adopted plans and
        specifications and other technical requirements. As part of this review, the Director or Designee
        may conduct one or more on-site reviews, as provided by Utah Code 10-9a-303.



White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)               Page 9 of 48
    3. The Director or Designee shall refer the application materials, plans, plats and technical
       documents to the Development Review Committee and any other government agency and/or
       affected entity which the Director deems necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare of
       the public and to ensure the project's compliance with all applicable design standards and
       specifications, ordinances, codes and adopted plans and specifications and other technical
       requirements.
    4. Multiple reviews and submittals may be required based on the accuracy of the plat, drawings
       and plans, consistency with the applicable municipal land use ordinances and codes, state and
       federal law, and adherence to the requirements of the adopted plans and specifications and
       other technical requirements. In processing reviews and submittals, the municipality will adhere
       to the standards for subdivision review cycles, as articulated in Utah State Code §10-9a-604.2.
    5. Upon a determination that the application is consistent with applicable standards and
       conditions, the DRC shall provide a written letter of approval to the applicant.
    6. If an applicant is proposing substantial changes to the preliminary plat, the applicant shall be
       referred to the land user authority that approved the preliminary plat for final approval.
       Substantial changes shall include an increase in the number of proposed lots, changes to the
       location and/or configuration of streets including stub streets, and/or other changes deemed
       substantial by the DRC.
    7. If an applicant contests any requirements imposed by the DRC as part of the final plat approval,
       the applicant may request that the application be referred to the Council for a final decision.
    8. The following actions must be taken within one (1) year of final plat approval, or the applicant
       must reapply for preliminary plat approval:
       a. The subdivision plat shall be recorded in the Office of the Salt Lake County Recorder; or
       b. A Site Restoration/Durability Bond shall be posted with Planning and Development Services
            and a preconstruction meeting shall have been held with the DRC.
    9. The Director may grant a one (1) year extension provided the final plans have been updated to
       address any changes to the applicable ordinances and standards that may have been updated or
       changed since the time of the final plat approval.

18.08.100 - Combined Applications.
An applicant may submit application for approval of a preliminary plat and a final plat simultaneously if
the subdivision does not include multiple phases. Such application shall be on a form provided by
Planning and Development Services. The combination application must contain both a preliminary plat
and a final plat that meet all requirements of this Title and all municipal, state, and federal regulations,
prior to approval by the Planning Commission. All other agency reviews must also be conducted and
approved in accordance with this title.

18.08.110 – Recording the Final Plat.
A. Prior to recording the Final Plat, the applicant shall:
    1. Pay any remaining fees, and
    2. Provide Planning and Development Services with a tax clearance indicating that all taxes,
       interest, and penalties owing on the land have been paid, and




White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)               Page 10 of 48
   3. Complete all required improvements and post a durability bond in accordance with Chapter
       18.16. The required improvements must all be inspected, approved and accepted by the
       Municipal Engineering staff, or
   4. Post a performance guarantee and a durability bond in accordance with Chapter 18.16 and in an
       amount determined by the Municipal Engineer.
B. The final plat must include all the required approval signatures (Planning Commission
   representative, Director, health department, district attorney, mayor or their designees).
C. Make an appointment with Planning and Development Services to record the final plat in the Salt
   Lake County Recorder’s Office.

18.08.120 - As Built Drawings.
Prior to the final acceptance of the required improvements the applicant shall provide the Municipal
Engineer a complete and accurate set of as-built drawings in an electronic format acceptable to the
Municipal Engineer.

18.06.140 – Definitions.
All terms pertaining to the development or division of land as defined in Chapter 19.04 of the municipal
zoning ordinance shall also be applicable to this Title.



Chapter 18.10 – Documentation Requirements
18.10.010 – Document Submittal Requirements.
All subdivision applications shall include, at a minimum, the documents identified in the subdivision
application packet provided by Planning and Development Services.

18.10.020 - Concept Plan Specifications.
At a minimum, the following information and materials should be provided as a part of the Concept Plan
application package:

A. An accurate and up-to-datepreliminary survey map of the property proposed for subdivision;

B. A vicinity map at a scale of 1:600 showing the property in relation to the general area of the
   jurisdictional limits in which it is located;

C. A schematic plat drawn clearly and accurately by a design professional at a scale appropriate for the
   nature of the project, to include:

    1. Scale, North Arrow, and Date of Preparation;

    2. Approximate topography;

    3. All primary and secondary conservation areas;

    4. Existing man-made features on the property;

    5. Proposed streets, lots, public areas, open spaces, greenbelts, buffers, amenity areas, and other
       significant proposed improvements;



White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)            Page 11 of 48
    6. Zoning setbacks, and the approximate area of each lot;

    7. Any other features that will be important in the design and development of the project; and

    8. Any off-site improvements that may be needed to properly develop the property.

D. A Stormwater Management Concept Plan
   0.1. Typical floor plans and elevations of the houses that are planned for the proposed subdivision;
        and

    0.2. A Concept Plan Review fee.

18.10.030 -Preliminary Plat Required Information.
H.A.      The preliminary plat shall contain the information specified in this section and comply with the
     following requirements:
I.B. Description and Delineation. In a Title block located in the lower right-hand corner of the plat the
     following shall appear:
     1. The proposed name of the subdivision, which name must be approved by Planning and
          Development Services;
     2. The location of the subdivision, including:
          a. Address,
          a.b. Section, township, range, base, meridian;
          c. When applicable, the name and phase of the recorded subdivision being amended; and
          b.d. Municipality and County.
     3. The names and addresses of the owner, the subdivider, if different than the owner, and of the
          designer of the subdivision;
     4. The date of preparation, scale (no less than one inch to equal one hundred feet) and the north
          point.
J.C. Existing Conditions. The plat shall show:
     1. The location and elevation of project benchmark(s) referenced to published Salt Lake County
          Surveyor datum and its spatial relationship to existing Public Land Survey System monuments or
          their accessoriesof and dimensions to the nearest benchmark or monument;
     2. The boundary lines of the proposed subdivision indicated by a solid heavy line and the total
          approximate acreage encompassed thereby;
     3. All property under the control of the subdivider, even is only a portion is being subdivided.
          Where the plat submitted covers only a part of the subdivider's tract, a sketch of the
          prospective street system of the unplatted parts of the subdivider's land shall be submitted, and
          the street system of the part submitted shall be considered in the light of existing street system,
          general street plans, other applicable studies and adopted transportation plans.
     4. The location, width, names and jurisdiction of all existing streets within two hundred feet of the
          subdivision and of all prior platted streets or other public ways, railroad and utility rights-of-way,
          parks and other public open spaces, permanent buildings and structures, houses or permanent
          easements and section and municipal and service district boundaries, within and adjacent to the
          tract;




White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)                 Page 12 of 48
     5. The location of all wells, proposed, active and abandoned, and of all reservoirs within the tract
         and to a distance of at least one hundred feet (100’) beyond the tract boundaries;
     6. Existing sewers, water mains, culverts or other underground facilities within the tract and to a
         distance of at least one hundred feet (100’) beyond the tract boundaries, indicating pipe sizes,
         grades, manholes, elevations, and exact location;
     7. Existing and proposed ditches, canals, natural drainage channels, and open waterways and
         proposed realignments;
     8. Boundary lines of adjacent tracts of subdivided and unsubdivided land, showing ownership
         where possible;
     9. Contour at vertical intervals of not more than two feet. Highwater levels of all watercourses, if
         any, shall be indicated in the same datum for contour elevations;
     10. All existing fire hydrants within five hundred feet (500’) of the proposed subdivision,
         including any proposed to be located within the subdivision; andNearest installed fire hydrants
         on or within five hundred feet of the proposed subdivision.
     11. Accurate locations of all natural features such as lakes, ponds, streams, creeks, State
         Waters, Wetlands, floodplain boundaries, riparian buffers, Wildlife and Priority Habitats (as
         identified by Department of Natural Resources), and other significant features, and notations
         designating any federal, state, or local regulatory agency permits or approvals that are or may
         be required relative to development of or around such features.
K.D.     Properties Located in the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone. In addition to the preceding, the
     preliminary plat for subdivision of a property located in the foothills and canyons overlay zone shall
     show:
     1. A graphic depiction of existing slope characteristics of the property, illustrating the following:
         a. Areas with slopes less than thirty percent,
         b. Areas with slopes thirty to forty percent,
         c. Areas with slopes forty to fifty percent, and
         d. Areas with slopes greater than fifty percent;
     2. Identified natural hazards, including but not limited to, areas potentially subject to avalanche,
         liquefaction, and/or surface fault rupture;
     3. Water courses, natural drainage channels, storm water runoff channels, gullies, stream beds,
         wetlands, etc.
L.E. Proposed Subdivision Plan. The subdivision plans shall show:
     1. The layout of streets, showing location, widths and other dimensions of (designated by actual or
         proposed names and numbers) proposed streets, crosswalks, alleys and easements;
     2. The layout, numbers and typical dimensions of lots, and in areas subject to foothills and canyons
         overlay zone provisions, designation of buildable areas on individual lots.
     3. Parcels of land intended to be dedicated or temporarily reserved for public use or set aside for
         use of property owners in the subdivision;
     4. Building setback lines, including showing dimensions where required by the Planning
         Commission;
     5. Easements for water, sewers, drainage, utility lines and other purposes, if required by the
         Planning Commission;




White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)             Page 13 of 48
     6. Typical street cross sections. The required street cross sections may be submitted as a separate
          sheet or as part of the construction plans. Grade sheets may be required by the Planning
          Commission or other reviewing agency;
     7. A tentative plan or method by which the subdivider proposes to handle stormwater drainage for
          the subdivision.
B.F. Phasing.
     8.1. Where a subdivider proposes to submit a final plat containing less territory than shown on the
          preliminary plat, indicating a phased development plan, the preliminary plat shall identify each
          of the proposed phases. Any such final plat phasing scheme shall occur at logical "break points"
          in the project and provide access and utility services which will be adequate in the event that
          subsequent phases do not occur. The phasing scheme shall also incorporate the provisions of
          Chapter 17.12 of this title.
     9.2. A phase shall not include two or more non-contiguous areas on the same plat.
     10.3.         No phasing scheme shall have the effect of leaving a residual lot, non-conforming parcel or
          previously divided land for which the required subdivision improvements have not been
          previously constructed. For purposes of this Title a "residual lot" shall be defined as a zoning lot,
          created by the proposed subdivision, but which is not shown as a lot on the final plat of the
          subdivision project or as future development. A future development parcel must be developable
          into multiple lots meeting the area standards for the applicable zone.
M.G. Where required, evidence of any agreements with adjacent property owners relative to the
     subdivision development shall be presented to the Planning and Development Services in writing
     prior to its approval of the plat. These agreements shall include those relative to drainage,
     easements, protection strips and improvement bonds.

18.10.040 -Final Plat Required information.
The final plat, which must shall be prepared by a Professional Land Surveyor licensed in Utah on a sheet
of approved reproducible Mylar and made with approved waterproof black ink. The plat shall be
oriented so that the top of the sheet is either north or east, whichever accommodates the drawing best.
All text shall be a minimum of one-tenth inch in size. The plat must contain all information required on
the preliminary plat with the exception of contours and construction information, utilities (except
existing and proposed fire hydrants), structures and fences (unless called monuments).

A. Description and Delineation. The final plat shall show:
   1. The approved name of the subdivision;
   2. North arrow and graphic scale. The minimum scale is 1”=100’;
   3. A Legend defining all lines and symbols used on the plat;
   4. Lot addresses, and approved street names and numbers;
   5. The plat drawing must agree with the boundary description.
   6. Accurate angular and lineal dimensions for all lines, angles and curves used to describe
      boundaries, streets, alleys, easements, areas to be reserved for public use and other important
      features. Boundaries, lots and streets shall be shown as solid lines, with outside subdivision
      boundary lines indicated as a heavier, more substantial line than lot, street and easement lines.
      Easements shall be shown as dashed lines.




White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)                Page 14 of 48
    7. The lengths of lot lines and boundary lines shall be shown as decimals of a foot with a precision
        of 0.00’; Bearings and angles will be shown as Deg/Min/Sec with a precision of 0°00’00”.
        Additional precision may be necessary to meet closure requirements.
    8. Bearings and distance to provide a mathematical closure of 0.01 on exterior subdivision
        boundary and 0.02’ or less, on all lots and centerline of streets.
    9. Basis of bearing between two, or more, public land survey monuments; or between identified
        monuments in a recorded subdivision or street dedication plat
    10. Survey ties to public land survey monuments , and where applicable, to identified monuments in
        a recorded subdivision or street dedication plat, showing measured and record - if different).
    11. The accurate location of all survey monuments and fire hydrants to be installed shown by the
        appropriate symbol. All United States, state, county or other official benchmarks, survey
        monuments or triangulation stations in or adjacent to the property, shall be preserved in precise
        position and in compliance with Utah Code, Section 17-23-14 and Salt Lake County Ordinance,
        Chapter 14.17;
    12. The clearly labeled point of beginning.
    13. The sum of the lot distances must equal the boundary distance.
    14. Existing and proposed streets within 200 feet. Dimension street width and identify street
        ownership.
    15. Recording information of adjoining subdivisions. Ownership with parcel identification numbers
        of adjoining lots and parcels.
    16. The dimensioned relationship between existing and proposed utility easements with proposed lot
        lines. Include recording reference(s) of existing easements and provide a utility approval line for
        proposed easements.
    17. All curve data, including radii, internal angles, points and curvatures, tangent bearings and
        length of all arcs, identified at correct location or in a curve table.
    18. Centerline control on existing streets, matching the county’s record data. New street
        monuments will be installed per the Salt Lake County Surveyor’s monument permitting process
        as specified in the Salt Lake County Ordinance Chapter 14-17..
    19. The dedication to the municipality of all streets and highways included in proposed subdivision.
        Where it is proposed that streets be constructed on property controlled by a public agent or
        utility company, approval for the location, improvement and maintenance of such streets shall
        be obtained from the public agency or utility company and entered on the final plat in a form
        approved by the municipal attorney.
    20. Subdivision monuments shall be installed prior to the improvement bond release by the
        subdivider's engineer or land surveyor at such points designated on the final plat as approved by
        Planning and Development Services. Standard precast monuments, rings and lids shall be
        installed through the Salt Lake County Surveyor monument permitting process (SLCo Ord
        Chapter 14.17).furnished by the County Surveyor and shall be purchased by the subdivider at
        the prices indicated in the County Surveyor's adopted fee schedule;
    20.21.        Physical markers shall be placed at each outside boundary corner, in accordance with
        state statutes and industry standards; and verified to be in their correct location(s) according to
        the plat




White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)             Page 15 of 48
   21.22.       Physical markers shall be placed at each lot corner in accordance with state statutes and
        industry standards;
   22.23.       Accurate outlines and legal descriptions of any areas to be dedicated or reserved for
        public use, with the purposes indicated thereon, and of any area to be reserved by deed or
        covenant for common uses of all property owners;
B. Boundary Description. The boundary description shall include:
   1. A caption with reference to current vesting deed(s), location by Quarter Section, Township &
        Range, Base & Meridian, and if applicable -existing lot(s) and subdivision(s)
   2. A survey tie to an existing Public Land Survey monument, or a recognized street or subdivision
        monument.
   3. All necessary bearings, distances and curve data to complete the description and provide a
        mathematical closure of 0.01’ (one hundredth) of a foot or less.
   4. Narrative (bound) calls to and along adjoining subdivisions, parcels, streets, and rights of way as
        necessary to define the intent of the description.
   5. Recording reference to any additional easements required for property access where applicable.
   6. Total development area in square feet (0.00) and acres (0.000).
C. Standard Forms for the Following. The municipality may adopt a template establishing the excepted
   format of the final plat, which shall at a minimum require:
   1. A Professional Land Surveyor’s certificate of survey;
   2. The owner's certificate of dedication;
   3. A notary public's acknowledgement;
   4. The land use authority's certificate of approval;
   5. The health department's certificate of approval;
   6. The planning and development services division's certificate of approval;
   7. The municipal attorney's certificate of approval;
   8. The mayor’s certificate of approval;
   8.9. The County Surveyor’s record of survey acknowledgment block; and
   9.10.        A one and one-half by five-inch (1.5” x 5”) space in the lower right-hand corner of the
        drawing for the county recorder's use.
D. The final plat may require written acknowledgment of any legal documents recorded at the Salt Lake
   County Recorder’s Office completed as part of the approval process for the subdivision. The
   acknowledgment shall include the recorded number of the document after it has been recorded at
   the Salt Lake County Recorder’s office.

18.10.050 – Technical Reports Required.
A. The following technical reports are required for all subdivisions:
    1. Soils Report. The report shall include, but is not necessarily limited to, information with respect
       to slope analysis, general soils classification, suitability for development, erosion potential, any
       recommendations for proposed methods of mitigating any constraints determined to be present
       as part of the development plan, and any adverse impact on the natural environment.

    2. Stormwater, Grading And Drainage Plan: The plan shall include, but is not necessarily limited to,
       information on groundwater levels, identification and mapping of drainage channels and
       systems, floodplains, existing details and contours where modification of terrain is proposed,



White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)             Page 16 of 48
         the direction of proposed drainage flow, proposed plans and the location of all surface and
         subsurface drainage devices to be constructed as part of the proposed development, erosion
         control measures during the course of construction, identification of any grading and drainage
         problems such as the alteration of natural drainage patterns and any other problems of the
         proposed development, and a plan to mitigate or eliminate such problems and any adverse
         impact on the natural environment.

B. The following technical reports are required for subdivision applications in the FCOZ, areas
   designated as Special Flood Hazard Areas on a FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), and all other
   property in designated fault or debris flow areas:

    1.    Geotechnical And Geology Report (Global And Site Specific): The report shall include, but is not
         necessarily limited to, identification and mapping of the location of major geographic and
         geologic features such as fault traces, surface ruptures, zones of deformation, potential slide
         and other high hazard areas such as mine shafts and avalanche paths, conclusions and
         recommendations regarding the effect of geologic conditions on the proposed development,
         recommendations covering the adequacy of sites proposed for development, and any potential
         adverse impact on the natural environment. This report shall be completed by a geotechnical
         engineer or an engineering geologist. The geotechnical report shall contain a certification in
         accordance with section 18.30.090 of this code.

         The geotechnical investigation shall include soil borings extended to a depth sufficient to define
         the soil stratigraphy, water table and other features within the zone of significant stress of the
         proposed structural footings of the proposed development. If the development needs
         evaluation of slope stability then the soil borings will extend deep enough to define all soil layers
         in the zone of possible slippage.

         If published geologic maps show possible faults in the area or a surface geologic examination
         reveals signs of faulting then the geotechnical investigation will be supplemented by trenching
         in addition to the soil borings. The trenches will be so located as to intercept the apparent fault
         at a perpendicular angle to the trend of the fault. The trenching will extend a minimum of
         twenty feet (20') each side of the located fault. Developments of two (2) acres or more will
         require at least two (2) trenches to define the fault. One trench will be approximately where the
         fault enters the property and the other where it leaves the property. The trenches will be
         excavated to a depth that will define the fault and allow physical observation and measurement
         to be taken.

    2. Natural Conditions And Vegetation Analysis And Preservation Plan: This report and plan shall
       include a survey of existing trees, large shrubs and ground covers, a plan for the proposed
       revegetation of the site, detailing existing vegetation to be preserved, new vegetation to be
       planted and any modifications to existing vegetation, and the identification of any vegetation
       problems and recommendations as how to mitigate or eliminate such problems and avoid
       potential adverse impact on the natural environment.




White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)               Page 17 of 48
    3. Fire Protection Report: The report shall include, but not be limited to, identification of potential
       fire hazards, mitigation measures, access for fire protection equipment and proposed fire flow
       capability.

C. The scope and content of these required technical reports and plans shall be in accordance with
   adopted standards. The Municipal Engineer may waive the necessity for submitting one or more of
   the technical reports or any elements of a report where, in its opinion, conditions associated with
   the proposed development do not require consideration of the subject matter covered. Also, where
   the lot is contained within an approved subdivision and the technical reports previously submitted
   as part of the subdivision approval process are sufficient in scope and detail to adequately address
   the issues required under this chapter, this requirement may be waived.

18.10.060 -Final approval—GIS Data Required.
A. Prior to the final approval and the issuance of any permit associated with a subdivision or
    development plan, or in the case of a single lot development, a single building permit, the owner or
    applicant shall provide to Planning and Development Services a GIS data corresponding to the
    approved plans for all improvements required by Subsection 18.14.020(B). Any changes during
    construction will require additional GIS data to be submitted with the final approved as-built
    drawings. All GIS data shall be submitted in the following format:
    1. All GIS data shall be submitted in conformance with County Policy 1013, "Standards for
       Geographic Information System" and the "Salt Lake County Public Works Engineering GIS
       Standards," as approved by the Salt Lake County GIS Steering Committee and on file with Salt
       Lake County Engineering. The municipality reserves the right to reject any GIS data that is
       provided and is not in compliance with the above standards.
    2. This shall be done at the applicant or owner's expense. If an applicant or owner does not
       provide the required GIS data, the municipality may complete the work on the applicant or
       owner's behalf and the applicant or owner shall pay to the municipality the cost of completing
       the work at the hourly rate approved by the Council for such work. If the applicant or owner fails
       to pay for such work, the municipality may pursue legal action to recover these costs.
    3. Applicants with a cost as estimated by the Municipal Engineer of ten thousand dollars ($10,000)
       or less may, prior to construction, petition the Division for an exemption from the GIS
       requirements of this Chapter. The decision of the Director or Designee shall be final.
B. GIS data will be required for the following improvements:
    1. Roadway system: Regulatory signs, street signs, bus and other transit stops, centerlines, curb
       and gutter, sidewalks, crosswalks, ADA ramps, striping, road width, and monuments; streetlights
       and signals (including conduit and electrical boxes for streetlights and signals).
    2. Storm drain system: Catch basins, manholes, fire hydrants, cleanout boxes, drainage areas,
       detention basin inlets and outlets, culverts, detention basin area, stormwater quality BMPs, and
       pipes.

Chapter 18.12 - Design Standards
18.12.010 - Departmental Standards.
Standards for design, construction specifications and inspection of street improvements, curbs, gutters,
sidewalks, storm drainage and flood control facilities shall be prepared by the Municipal Engineering and


White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)              Page 18 of 48
Flood Control divisions; standards for water distribution and sewage disposal facilities shall be prepared
by the health department, and similar standards for fire hydrants shall be prepared by the fire
department. All subdividers shall comply with the standards established by such departments and
agencies of the municipality, provided that such standards shall be approved by the legislative body.
Subject to the provisions of Utah State Code §10-9a-508, no adopted design or construction standards
shall have the effect of requiring the installation of pavement on a residential roadway at a width in
excess of thirty-two feet (32’).

18.12.020 - Conformance with Design Standards.
The design of the preliminary and final plats of the subdivision in relation to streets, blocks, lots, open
spaces and other design factors shall conform with the standards contained herein.

18.12.030 - Streets and Roads, General Criteria.
A. Width. The width of the hard surfacing and the location and type of other required street
    improvements shall be as set forth on the applicable street cross section standard adopted by the
    Council.
B. Relationship To Adjacent Streets. The proposed street system shall properly align and be compatible
    with adjacent streets. Offsets in street alignment of more than fifteen feet (15') or less than one
    hundred fifty feet (150') shall be prohibited.
C. Street Names. New street names may not duplicate those already existing within Salt Lake County. A
    street obviously a continuation of another already in existence should bear the same name. Before
    the street is named, the proposed name must be submitted to and approved by Planning and
    Development Services.
D. Access To Adjacent Properties. In order to facilitate the development of an adequate and
    convenient circulation system within the municipality and to provide access for the logical
    development of adjacent vacant properties, the municipality may, as a condition of approval,
    require the subdivision plan to include one or more temporary dead end streets (stub streets) which
    extend to the boundary of the subdivision. All such stub streets shall be fully developed to the
    boundary of the subdivision. Any plan for the subsequent development of the adjacent property
    shall provide for the continuation of any such stub street.
E. Temporary Dead End (Stub Streets). Where a final plat includes a dead end stub street which is
    intended to be continued into adjacent property in the future and which serves as the primary
    access for one or more adjacent lots, said final plat shall make provision for temporarily
    accommodating vehicular movement and the extension of utility services by designating temporary
    cul-de-sacs, turnaround areas, travel easements connecting the end of the stub street with other
    streets in the vicinity or such other temporary measure as may be approved by the Planning
    Commission. Such temporary facilities required pursuant to this provision shall remain until such
    time as the street has been extended into the adjacent property and the improvements accepted by
    the municipality.
F. Cul-De-Sacs. Cul-de-sacs shall be discouraged.
G. Cul-de-sacs may be appropriate in cases where the possibility of future adjacent development does
    not exist due to topography or existing development, where an additional through street would be
    unnecessary, or other special circumstances as determined appropriate by the land use authority.
    When permitted, permanent cul-de-sacs shall be designed in accordance with adopted standard



White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)               Page 19 of 48
   drawings, each cul-de-sac stem shall meet the standard street requirement including right of way,
   pavement width, gutter, curb, and sidewalk within residential subdivisions. The maximum length of
   a cul-de-sac street shall be four hundred feet (400') from the center of the cul-de-sac to the
   centerline of the intersecting street. The Planning Commission may allow a five hundred foot (500')
   maximum cul-de-sac length if the applicant of such can demonstrate one or both of the following
   requirements:
   1. That a road cannot be extended through the property to connect to another street elsewhere.
   2. That development has occurred on at least three (3) sides of the surrounding property.
H. The land use authority may require a sidewalk connection through a cul-de-sac to allow for
   pedestrian connectivity to existing or future adjacent development and/or public streets.
I. Vehicle Access. Subdivision projects of twenty (20) lots or more shall provide at least two (2) points
   of vehicular access.

18.12.040 - Blocks.
A. Length. Blocks shall not exceed one thousand three hundred and twenty (1320’) feet in length.
B. Width. Blocks shall be wide enough to adequately accommodate two tiers of lots except as provided
    for herein.
C. Walkways. Dedicated walkways through the block may be required where access is necessary to a
    point designated by the Planning Commission. Such walkways shall be a minimum of six feet in
    width, but may be required to be wider where determined necessary by the Planning Commission.
    The subdivider shall surface the full width of the walkway with a concrete surface, install a chain-link
    fence or its equal four feet high on each side and the full length of each walkway and provide, in
    accordance with the standards, rules and regulations, barriers at each walkway entrance to prevent
    the use of the walkway, by any motor vehicle or by any other nonmotorized vehicle wider than four
    feet.
D. Commercial and Industrial Block Design. Blocks intended for business or industrial use shall be
    designed specifically for such purposes with adequate space set aside for off-street parking and
    delivery facilities.

18.12.050 - Lots.
A. Design. The lot arrangement and design shall be such that lots will provide satisfactory and desirable
    sites for buildings and be properly designed according to topography, the character of surrounding
    development, and to existing requirements. Lots shall not contain peculiarly shaped elongations
    solely to provide necessary square footage which would be unusable for normal purposes.
B. Zoning Conformity. All lots shown on the preliminary and final plats must conform to the minimum
    requirements of the zone in which the subdivision is located, and to the minimum requirements of
    the health department for water supply and sewage disposal. Lots created as part of an approved
    planned unit development, or subject to a development agreement are subject to the standards set
    forth in that approval or document.
C. Frontage. Each lot in a subdivision shall abut upon and have access to a street which is:
    1. Dedicated to the municipality by the subdivision plat, or
    2. An existing publicly dedicated street, or
    3. An existing public street which has become public by right of use and which is more than
        twenty-six (26’) feet wide, or



White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)              Page 20 of 48
     4. An existing private street that has been approved by the municipality, or
     5. Have an approved access via private right of way to a public street shown on the plan and
         approved under the criteria outlined in subsection 2 of this section.
D.   The municipality may approve a request for a private street that complies with the following criteria:
     1. The street must be part of a planned unit development (PUD) or planned community where the
         municipality and the applicant have entered into a development agreement;
     2. Private streets will only be allowed for streets that have no public interest for traffic circulation
         and connectivity;
     3. The final design and cross section of any private street shall be determined by the Council based
         on recommendations from the Planning Commission. Unless otherwise authorized by the
         Council, private streets shall conform to adopted street cross section and shall in no case less
         than twenty feet (20') in width;
     4. The maximum length of a dead-end private street shall not exceed five hundred feet (500');
     5. A note on the plat shall be included indicating that municipality has no responsibility to improve
         or maintain the private streets contained within, or private streets providing access to, the
         property described in the plat, nor does the municipality have responsibility for any of the
         infrastructure associated with the roadway such as sidewalks, drainage facilities, streetlights,
         curbs, and/or landscaping; and
     6. The applicant shall provide a maintenance plan outlining how the private streets will be
         maintained.
E.   Corner Lots. Corner lots shall include the minimum lot width along each of the fronting streets, as
     measured at the front setback line. A corner lots shall have an addition ten feet (10') of width along
     one of the frontages to accommodate the additional setback requirements. Potential Discussion
     Item: Extra 10’ width on one side for corner lots?
F.   Double Fronting Lots. Single-family or duplex double frontage lots shall be prohibited, except where
     they may be essential to provide separation of single-family or duplex residential development from
     fronting on collector or arterial streets, or to overcome a specific disadvantage or hardship imposed
     by topography or other factors. Such double frontage lots allowed within the municipality shall be
     constructed to the adopted engineering design standards.
G.   Where lots have double frontage, are not screened, and/or are provided access directly onto an
     arterial street, building setback lines shall be established for each street side.
H.   Lots in single-family or duplex residential subdivisions and lots measuring less than one hundred feet
     (100’) wide and located within multifamily residential subdivisions may abut a street on both the
     front and rear boundaries, but only under the following conditions:
     1. One lot boundary must abut a collector street, arterial street or freeway;
     2. No access to the abutting arterial street or freeway. The Planning Commission may require a
         reservation, easement or other condition of approval to ensure that no right of access is given;
         and
     3. The Planning Commission may require that a parkway at the rear of a double frontage lot be
         landscaped, or other aesthetic treatment be provided by the subdivider, subject to the approval
         of the Planning Commission to provide a visual and physical separation between the
         development and the street.




White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)               Page 21 of 48
I.   Angle of Lot Lines. Side lot lines or lots shall be approximately at right angles, or radial to the street
     line, except where topographic or other conditions make it advisable to have side lot lines at sharper
     angles.
J.   Multiple Ownership of Lots. Where the land covered by a subdivision includes two (2) or more
     parcels in separate ownership and the lot arrangement is such that a property ownership line
     divides one or more lots, the subdivision shall be considered as a joint project and the final plat shall
     be signed by all affected property owners.

18.12.060 - Remnant Parcels and Nuisance Strips.
A. No subdivision or platting of a lot shall create a nuisance strip, residual lot, or remnant parcel of
    property less than the minimum lot area or width for the zone in which it is located.
B. If a remnant parcel is proposed, a phasing plan must be submitted demonstrating how the remnant
    parcel can be developed in the future.
C. Remnant land not included in the proposed subdivision or platting of a lot must be deeded to
    adjacent property, with the deed or other appropriate instrument being recorded at the same time
    as the subdivision or recording of a plat. The resulting deeds shall not result in additional parcels
    being created that are not within the subdivision boundary.
D. No lot may contain an elongated protuberance, or any other feature intended to deny frontage to
    another parcel.

18.12.070 – Flag Lots.

A. In order to subdivide an existing lot or parcel so as to create two or more separate lots or parcels
   (the base lot(s) adjacent to the street and a flag lot(s) to their rear), sufficient land area must be
   available to maintain:

     1. For the base lot(s), compliance with the required area and width requirements of the zone in
        which the properties are situated, and

     2. For flag lot(s) less than one half acre in size:

         a. One and one half times the area requirements for the zone in which the properties are
            situated if ownership of the land providing access to the flag lot(s) is retained by or
            conveyed to the owner of those lots, or

         b. One and one half times the area requirements for the zone in which the properties are
            situated minus the land area included in the access easement across the base lot(s).

     3. For flag lot(s) in zones that require a minimum lot area of one half acre in size or larger:

         a. Compliance with the required area and width requirements of the zone in which the
            properties are situated, exclusive of the land area encumbered for access purposes to the
            flag lot(s), whether by ownership or perpetual easement.

B. Access to a flag lot or lots shall be provided in the following manner:

     1. Ownership of the land area connecting the flag lot(s) to the street by the person(s) or entities
        that own the balance of the land area included in the flag lot(s), or



White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)                Page 22 of 48
    2. Retention of ownership of the land area connecting the flag lot(s) to the street by the owner
       of the base lot(s) fronting on the street, but only if conveyance of that land area would render
       the base lot(s) substandard with regards to lot width or lot area requirements applicable to
       the zone in which the properties are situated. If so retained, access to the flag lot(s) shall be
       provided through conveyance and recordation of a perpetual access easement for each lot,
       together with cross maintenance and liability agreements addressing the rights and
       responsibilities of the owners of the base lot(s) and the flag lot(s).

C. Access to a flag lot(s), whether by ownership of the land area across which such access is provided or
   through recordation of a perpetual access easement across the base lot(s), must be of uniform width
   from the flag lot to the intersection with the street right-of-way or easement upon which the base
   lot fronts in accordance with the following:

    1. On properties where the length of the access connection from the flag lot(s) to the public street
       right-of-way or easement is less than one hundred and thirty feet, the width of that connection
       must be no less than twenty (20’) feet unless a lesser width for improvements to the travel way
       is authorized for access purposes by the Municipal Engineer and the Fire Authority.

    2. On properties where the length of the access connection from the flag lot(s) to the public street
       right-of-way or easement is more than one hundred and thirty feet, the width of that
       connection must be no less than twenty-five (25’) feet unless a lesser width for improvements
       to the travel way is authorized for access purposes by the Municipal Engineer and the Fire
       Authority.

    3. A landscaping, irrigation, and fencing plan shall be submitted to create a buffer between the
       driveway and adjoining properties to mitigate the negative impacts of the access.




White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)            Page 23 of 48
Chapter 18.14 - Required Improvements.
18.14.010 - Certification of Improvements.
No final plat of a subdivision of land shall be recorded without receiving a statement signed by Planning
and Development Services certifying that the improvements described in the subdivider's plans and
specifications have been completed, or that an adequate performance bond has been submitted for the
required improvements as allowed under Chapter 18.18. The certification document is to certify that the
required improvements meet the minimum requirements of all ordinances of the municipality, that
they comply with the standards and requirements of the health department, Planning and
Development Services, the Planning Commission and the fire authority serving the area.

18.14.020 - Storm Sewers.
Storm sewers shall be constructed throughout the entire subdivision to carry off water from all inlets
and catch basins and shall be connected to an adequate outfall. A stormwater drainage system subject
to the approval of Planning and Development Services shall be provided and shall be separate and
independent of the sanitary sewer system. The final plans for the drainage system shall be prepared by a
licensed engineer not in the employ of the county, the MSD or the Municipality.

18.14.030 - Public Sanitary Sewer.
A. Where public sewer service is available to the subdivision, a public sanitary sewer system, including
    main lines and laterals from the main to each lot property line, shall be constructed throughout the
    entire subdivision in accordance with plans and technical standards required by the entity providing
    public sewer service to the subdivision and shall be connected to the public sewer system.
B. In cases where public sewer service is not presently available to the subdivision, alternate waste
    disposal systems may only be permitted and used provided that the subdivider or applicant installs
    and constructs concurrently therewith sanitary sewer laterals and mains within the subdivision
    streets to a point on the subdivision boundary where future connection with the public sewer
    system shall be made. Sewer laterals shall be laid from each lot to the main line in each street, and a
    connection shall be available on each lot to connect from the alternate waste disposal systems to
    the sewer system when public sewer becomes available and operational. Such sanitary sewer
    system shall be capped until ready for use and shall be constructed throughout the entire
    subdivision in accordance with plans and technical standards required by the entity that will provide
    public sewer service to the subdivision in the future.
C. The Council may exempt the subdivider from the requirements of this Section upon a finding that
    public sewer service is unlikely to be provided to the subdivision in the future due to physical
    inaccessibility of the terrain. Prior to making a decision concerning a requested exemption, the




White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)             Page 24 of 48
   Council shall request a written recommendation from the Planning Commission, the Municipal
   Engineer, and from the entity most likely to provide sewer service to the area in which the
   subdivision is located.
D. Subsection C notwithstanding, it is expressly provided that it shall be unlawful for the owner or
   other person having charge of or occupying any property upon which a building shall have been or is
   being constructed for residential, commercial or industrial use, any part of which building is within
   three hundred feet (300') of any street, alley, or way in which a public sewer is then in existence and
   used in the municipality, to construct or permit to be constructed or to use or permit to be used any
   privy vault, septic tank or cesspool connected with such building. Each such owner or other person
   shall within ninety (90) days after having been given notice by the municipality that an accepted
   public sewer is ready to receive connections, therewith cause such building to be connected with
   the sewer (except that if such building shall not, at the time such notice is given, have therein any
   toilet or toilets, the owner or person having charge thereof or occupying any such building shall
   have a period of two (2) years in which to connect it with such public sewer) and it shall thereafter
   be unlawful for such owner or other person to have the plumbing in such building remain
   unconnected to the public sewer or to maintain or use or cause or permit to exist any privy vault,
   septic tank or cesspool to which the building is connected or which is used by the occupant thereof.
   Whenever an accepted public sewer is available to receive connections therewith, the manager of
   the system shall cause appropriate notice to be served upon the owner, agent or other persons
   having charge of or occupying all property coming within the scope of this section, that the public
   sewer is ready to receive connections therewith and that all plumbing must be connected with such
   sewer.

18.14.040 - Storm Drainage.
No ditch or canal shall be approved as suitable for the use of storm drainage water without the written
permission of the appropriate ditch or canal company or of the water users for such use. No ditch or
canal shall be used for stormwaters unless adequately improved to handle such water as might be
reasonably expected to flow from canal and ditch water, subdivision runoff water, and other water
expected to reach such canal or ditch. No ditch, canal or other waterway shall be permitted within
property dedicated or to be dedicated for public use. The subdivider shall remove such waterways from
property to be so dedicated prior to the construction of required off-site improvements.

18.14.050 - Street Improvements.
A. The subdivider shall submit a complete set of construction plans and profiles of all streets, existing
    and proposed, within the subdivision to Planning and Development Services. Plans and profiles are
    to be prepared by a professional engineer licensed to practice in the state of Utah and shall be
    accompanied by the final plat. The subdivider must also provide all GIS data corresponding to the
    submitted plans as required by Section 18.14.020. Planning and Development Services shall, within a
    reasonable time not to exceed twenty (20) business days from the receipt of the plans and profiles,
    notify the subdivider of approval, and in case of disapproval the reasons therefor. Such plans and
    profiles shall include:

    1. The designation of limits of work to be done;




White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)            Page 25 of 48
    2. The location of the benchmark and its true elevation according to County Policy 1013,
       “Standards for Geographic Information System” and the “Salt Lake County Public Works
       Engineering GIS Standards,” all profiles to be referred to in those standards;

    3. Profiles which indicate the finished and existing grades for the centerline of the street. Separate
       profiles, clearly designated, shall be made for each side of the street;

    4. Profile of all public storm drain system and any private system that connects to public system;

    5. Construction plans which include the details of curb and gutter and street cross-sections,
       location and elevation of manholes, catchbasins and storm sewers, elevations and location of
       fire hydrants, location of existing and proposed public survey control monuments and street
       centerline monuments, and any other detail necessary to simplify construction;

    6. Complete date for field layout and office checking;

    7. On curb returns, at least two additional control points for elevation besides those at points of
       curvature. Control points shall be staked in the field to insure drainage at intersection;

    8. The street address of the project as approved by Planning and Development Services and
       subdivision name if applicable.

B. At least ten days prior to the commencement of construction, the subdivider shall furnish to
   Planning and Development Services two bound 24”x36” hard copies of the complete set of
   approved construction plans and profiles of all streets, existing and proposed, as well as all
   corresponding GIS data in a format compatible with this Chapter. The approved hard copy sets of
   the construction plans and profiles shall include all information required in Subsection A.

18.14.060 - Arrangement of Streets.
The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make provision for the continuation of the existing
streets in adjoining areas and shall provide access to unsubdivided adjoining areas insofar as such
continuation or access shall be deemed necessary by the Planning Commission. New streets must
connect with existing public streets.

18.14.070 - Utility and Facility Systems to Be Underground.
All utility and facility systems including, but not limited to, all poles, towers, wires, lines, cables,
conduits, and pipes providing service such as electricity, telephone, telegraph, cable television, gas,
water, sewer, steam or petroleum including service drops, distribution systems, and transmission
systems shall be placed underground in accordance with municipal ordinances and policies.

18.14.080 - Streetlighting.
A. Except as provided for in subsection E below, adequate streetlighting shall be provided for the
    safety and welfare of residents and businesses located in the municipality through the installation of
    a streetlight ing system as part of subdivision development.
B. All streetlighting intended to illuminate the public street shall be installed in accordance with the
   "Standard Specifications for Streetlight Construction" as established and approved by the Public




White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)               Page 26 of 48
    Works Operations Director or Designee. Streetlight systems shall be designated on approved plats
    and installed accordingly.
    1. For all residential, multi-family residential, planned unit development, commercial, and
       industrial subdivision developments approved after the effective date of this ordinance, the
       subdivider shall install and pay the installation costs for streetlights as shown on the approved
       subdivision plat or site plan and to post a bond, pursuant to Section 18.24.170, guaranteeing
       proper installation. The subdivider must also provide a dedicated public utility easement from
       each respective underground power source to each streetlight.
    2. Items to be approved pursuant to the requirements of the "Standard Specifications for
       Streetlight Construction" include:
        a. Appropriate distance or spacing;
        b. Alternating sides of street, when applicable;
        c. Appropriate illumination at intersections;
        d. Location upon the property;
        e. Streetlight type and decorative style based on street classification;
        f.   Height based on location;
        g. Installation methods and requirements; and
        h. Illumination intensity, electrical specifications, and code requirements as determined by the
           "Standard Specifications for Streetlight Construction."
C. The subdivider or designee shall submit completed as-built-drawings and the GIS data
   corresponding to the as-built drawings, as required by Section 18.24 to the public works operations
   director or designee within thirty (30) days of the completion of the installation of a streetlight
   system within a subdivision development.
D. The Public Works Operations Director or Designee shall have the authority:
    1. To enforce this section and to ensure that streetlight installation is completed in compliance
       with all of its requirements; and,
    2. To vary the standards referenced in this section and to approve alternative streetlight designs
       and locations when adverse topography, roadway geometrics and design, the presence of
       natural vegetation, or any other adverse conditions exist which would justify such variations and
       alternatives without being detrimental to the public safety or welfare.
E. The Planning Commission shall have the authority to waive or modify the requirement for streetlight
   installation in subdivisions upon finding that:
    1. The subdivision is located in an environmentally sensitive area, such as the Foothills and
       Canyons Overlay Zone; or
    2. The subdivision will result in three (3) or fewer new lots; or
    3. The subdivision will not result in any other public street improvements.


White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)            Page 27 of 48
18.14.090 - Pavement Requirements.
A. All streets within the municipality shall be improved with pavements bounded by integral concrete
    curbs and gutters to an overall width in accordance with the standards, rules and regulations
    adopted by the council.

B. Pavements shall be constructed in accordance with the requirements of the standards, rules and
   regulations adopted by the council.

18.14.100 - Curbs and Gutters.
A. Curbs and gutters on all streets shall be concrete of the standard high-back-type unit, not less than
    two feet, six inches in overall width, and not less than seven inches thick where the curb abuts the
    street pavement.

B. All curb corners shall have a radius of not less than twenty-five feet, or thirty-five feet on streets
   designated as collector or arterial streets.

C. The subdivider shall install curbs, gutters and sidewalks on existing and proposed streets in all
   subdivisions.

18.14.110 - Street Name Signs.
Street name signs, conforming to the design and specifications and in the number provided by the
standards, rules and regulations of the municipality, shall be provided by the applicant at all street
intersections. Installation shall be made by the municipality to ensure uniformity.

18.14.120 - Trails.
The subdivider shall dedicate trails necessary to provide public access to public lands and other trails
shown on the general plan, any other adopted plan, or required by the planning commission other trails
shown on the general plans or required by the Planning Commission. Trails shall be located so that the
route is feasible for both construction and long-term maintenance; sideslopes shall not exceed seventy
percent (70%) and rock cliffs and other insurmountable physical obstructions shall be avoided. The
specific location of the trail right-of-way shall be verified on the ground before approval of the
subdivision. The amount of land required for trail dedication without compensation shall not exceed five
percent of the land within the subdivision excluding trails located within a standard street right-of-way.

18.14.130 - Fire Hydrants.
Fire hydrants shall be installed in all subdivisions in accordance with the regulations of the Fire
Authority.

18.14.140 - Stormwater Inlets and Catch Basins.
Stormwater inlets and catch basins shall be provided within the roadway improvements at points
specified by the planning and development services divisionMunicipal Engineer.

18.14.150 - Open Ditches and Canals—Permitted When.
A. Open ditches or canals shall not be allowed within or adjoining a subdivision except along rear or
    side lot lines. The subdivider shall work with irrigation, drainage or ditch companies as to:




White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)               Page 28 of 48
    1. Methods of covering, realigning or eliminating ditches or canals within or adjoining the
       subdivision;

    2. The size of pipe and culverts required;

    3. The responsibility for the periodic inspection, cleaning and maintenance of such ditches, pipes
       and culverts. In cases where canals or ditches cross public roads or proposed public roads,
       specifications and grades for pipe or culvert must be approved by the planning and
       development services division.

B. Irrigation components, whether open or piped, require water master approval.

    1. If existing irrigation components are suspected and not identified, then verification is required.

    2. If irrigation components are present, they are checked to comply with the ordinance.

    3. The water master's signature is required on any sheet in the final construction plans which show
       irrigation components.

    4. Final approval of the construction plans shall be withheld until water master's signature is
       confirmed.

18.14.160 - Open Ditches and Canals—Fencing Requirements.
The subdivider shall install a six-foot, nonclimbable chain-link fence, or its equivalent, in conformance
with the standards and rules and regulations adopted as provided in Section 18.20.010, along all open
ditches, canals or waterways, nonaccess streets, open reservoirs or bodies of water, railroad rights-of-
way and other such features of potentially hazardous nature on, crossing or contiguous to the property
being subdivided, except along those features which the Planning Commission shall determine would
not be a hazard to life, or where the conforming structure would create a hazard to the safety of the
public.




White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)             Page 29 of 48
18.14.170 - Fencing Requirements.
A. Where lots rear on a public street the applicant shall install a decorative masonry wall along the
    street right-of-way which is:

    1. Uniform in design and materials within the subdivision;

    2. A solid visual barrier screening;

    3. A minimum of six feet high from the top of curb or, if there is no curb, from the crown of the
       street;

    4. Maintained by the abutting property owner;

    5. Constructed with a sealant placed on any masonry fence to help with the removal of graffiti and
       to preserve the surface;

    6. Constructed according to development standards approved by the Planning Commission;

    7. Placed on the property line with the space between the fence and the sidewalk hard surfaced or
       planted with a perennial, climbing, groundcover and an irrigation system.

B. In lieu of a masonry wall, the Planning Commission may authorize a decorative masonry wall
   equivalent such as architectural precast concrete, architecturally treated concrete masonry units, or
   natural or precast stone.

18.14.180 - Construction of Improvements.
A. Twenty-four hours prior to construction of any required improvements, the Municipal Engineer shall
    be notified so that proper inspection may be provided and so that it may be determined whether or
    not proper authorization and/or required permits for construction have been obtained.

B. As-built plans, profile drawings, and corresponding GIS data shall be furnished to the municipal
   engineer of all street improvements, storm drain, sanitary sewer, and water systems upon
   completion. Planning and Development Services shall retain the improvement bond until such plans
   have been submitted.

C. Extreme care should be exercised on the part of the subdivider, the contractor and all other
   associated agencies for the protection and maintenance of all existing or newly placed
   improvements or facilities within the roadway sections during development.

18.14.190 - Responsibility for Damages.
All damages to any bonded improvements or facilities incurred during the period of development shall
be the sole responsibility of the subdivider and must be replaced to the satisfaction of the Municipal
Engineer before final acceptance of any improvements, and bond release. Any damages that occur
during building construction, shall be the responsibility of the builder, and will be satisfactorily repaired
prior to the issuance of any certificates of occupancy. At the discretion of the Municipal Engineer,
additional bonding may be required.All damages to any bonded improvements or facilities incurred
during the period of development shall be the sole responsibility of the subdivider and must be replaced
to the satisfaction of the Municipal Engineer before final acceptance of any improvements caused by the



White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)              Page 30 of 48
subdivider or any agents of the subdivider shall be repaired by the subdivider to the satisfaction of the
municipal engineer prior to final acceptance and bond release.




Chapter 18.16 – Performance Guarantees.
18.16.010 - Performance Guarantee Required.
Wherever a performance guarantee is required under the terms of this title, the performance guarantee
shall be submitted:

A. In conformance with this chapter; and

B. Prior to the commencement of any improvements.

18.16.020 - Performance Bonds.
A. Prior to the recording of a plat or conducting any development activity, in lieu of actual completion
    of the improvements listed in this Title, subdividers may file with the Planning and Development
    Services Division a performance bond to assure actual construction of such improvements within a
    one-year period.

B. If the applicant elects to post a performance bond in lieu of completing the improvements prior to
   the recording of the final plat, the applicant shall provide a performance bond for:

    1. The completion of one-hundred percent (100%) of the required improvements; or

    2. If the Municipal Engineer has inspected and accepted a portion of the required improvements,
       one-hundred (100%) of the incomplete or unaccepted improvements.

C. The amount of the performance bond for public improvements such as curb, gutter, sidewalk, road
   construction and surfacing, flood control and fire hydrants shall be established by the Municipal
   Engineer’s estimated cost of completion.

D. The performance bond shall also secure any required improvements on individual lots within the
   subdivision which are required in this Chapter.

E. The performance bond shall be in the form of a cash bond, an escrow agreement, or an irrevocable
   letter of credit from a financial institution located in the State of Utah.

F. A performance bond agreement shall be entered into by the Planning and Development Services
   division and the subdivider:

    1. The performance bond agreement shall include a provision that the performance bond shall
       expire within thirteen (13) months from the date issued.




White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)             Page 31 of 48
    2. If the project has not been completed by that date, then the performance bond shall be
       considered foreclosed upon.

    3. All remaining funds shall be thereafter remitted to the Planning and Development Services
       division as set forth in the performance bond agreement.

    4. A performance bond may be extended only if special circumstances warrant an extension, as
       determined by the Municipal Engineer.

G. A performance bond may be partially released if the performance to which it relates has been
   satisfactorily completed, except that not less than ten percent (10%) of the performance bond shall
   be retained to ensure completion of the entire performance.

H. The Director or Designee may establish objective procedures consistent with this section relating to
   the administration of performance bonds, including fund management, default and collection.

18.16.030. - Final Disposition and Release.
A. Upon completion of the work for which a performance bond has been posted, the applicant shall
    submit to the Director or Designee, one copy of a written request for release.

B. After receipt of the notice and request under Subsection A of this section, within five (5) days the
   Municipal Engineer shall make a preliminary inspection of the improvements and shall submit a
   report to the Director or Designee setting forth the condition of the facilities.

C. The Director or Designee shall receive the report and, within seven (7) days of the inspection,
   authorize release of a portion of the performance bond corresponding to the work completed and
   approved if the Municipal Engineer finds, based on objective inspection standards, that the
   condition of the improvements isare satisfactory.

D. The portion of the bond to be held as a durability bond under Section 18.16.050 of this Chapter may
   not be release until the durability period has expired and an inspection has been conducted by the
   Municipal Engineer that finds, based on objective inspection standards, that the condition of the
   improvements is satisfactory.

E. A bond may not be released if the Municipal Engineer:

    1. Finds that the condition of material or workmanship shows unusual depreciation or does not
       comply with the acceptable standards of durability; or

    2. Finds that any other terms of the bond agreement have not been satisfied; or

    3. As built plans, including profile drawings, have not been filed and corresponding GIS data (as
       required) has not been submitted; or

G. If the bonds are not released, the reasons therefor shall be given to the applicant in writing within
   seven (7) days from the time of the inspection.

H. In the case of a dispute over the release of a performance bond under this section, the Director may
   refer the matter to the Council for subsequent action to secure performance.



White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)            Page 32 of 48
    Such bonds shall be processed and released in accordance with the procedures set forth in Chapter
    3.56 of this code.

18.16.040. - Default.
A. Upon substantiating a finding under subsection B of this section, the Director with approval of the
    Council may, with due notice to the applicant:

    1. Declare the performance bond forfeited; and

    2. Install or cause the required improvement to be installed using the proceeds from the
       performance bond to defray the costs.

B. A performance bond may be forfeited under subsection A of this section if the Director finds that a
   applicant has failed or neglected to:

    1. Satisfactorily install the required improvements;

    2. Make required corrections;

    3. Make payment to the Planning and Development Services division for administration and
       inspections; or

    4. Otherwise failed to carry out the activity for which the performance bond was required.

C. The applicant is responsible for work beyond the limits of the bond amount.

D. Any funds remaining after completion of the required improvements will be returned to the
   applicant.

18.16.050.- Warranty Bond, Phase I: Reclamation.
A. Prior to conducting any development activity, the applicant shall submit with Planning and
    Development Services a reclamation bond to ensure that the site can be made safe in the event the
    applicant is unable to complete the required improvements.

B. The amount of the reclamation bond for public improvements such as curb, gutter, sidewalk, road
   construction and surfacing, flood control and fire hydrants shall be not less than ten percent (10%)
   of the Municipal Engineer’s estimated cost of completion.

C. The reclamation bond shall be in the form of a cash bond, an escrow agreement, or an irrevocable
   letter of credit.

D. At the end of the construction phase of the project, when the Municipal Engineer has approved and
   accepted the required improvements, the reclamation bond becomes the durability bond, with the
   final disposition and release subject to the same standards as the durability bond.

18.16.060. – Warranty Bond, Phase II: Durability Bond.
A. The Planning and Development Services division shall retain a durability bond in the amount of not
    less than ten percent (10%) of the initial amount of the performance bond or the applicant’s
    reasonable proven cost of completion. The durability bond shall be in the form of a cash bond, an




White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)           Page 33 of 48
    escrow agreement, or an irrevocable letter of credit. The durability bond shall be for the purpose of
    warrantying the improvements and shall be for a period of:

    1. One year after final acceptance of the improvement or warranty work; or

    2. Two (2) years after final acceptance of the improvement or warranty work, if the Director:

        a. Determines for good cause that a lesser period would be inadequate to protect the public
           health, safety, and welfare; and

        b. Has substantial evidence of any of the following:

            i.   Prior poor performance of the applicant; or

            ii. Unstable soil conditions within the subdivision or development area; or

            iii. Extreme fluctuations in climatic conditions that would render impracticable the
                 discovery of substandard or defective performance within a one-year period.

B. A determination under Subsection A2 of this Section shall be made by the Municipal Engineer in
   consultation with the Director.

C. If, after the warranty period, the durability of said improvements are is found to be satisfactory, the
   retainage may be released following the procedure outlined under Section 18.16.030 of this
   Chapter.

D. The Director may authorize a release of fifty percent (50%) of the improvement durability bond prior
   to the warranty period, if determined appropriate based on a finding of:

    1. The project has been completed and found acceptable and all monies have been released
       except for the durability bond;

    2. An error in the initial amount of the performance bond or the original calculation of the
       durability bond; or

    3. Fact that was previously unknown to the Municipal Engineer that is material in a determination
       that the municipality's public health, safety, and welfare would still be adequately protected.

E. The person giving the durability bond shall correct the improvements if at any time during the
   warranty period:

    1. Any required improvement fails or shows unusual depreciation;

    2. Certain work has not been completed or it becomes evident that certain work was not
       completed; or

    3. The materials or workmanship used in constructing the improvements do not otherwise comply
       with accepted standards of durability.




White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)             Page 34 of 48
F. If the corrections are not made within a reasonable time, the Director, with review from the Council,
   in accordance with Section 18.16.040 of this Chapter, may declare the person in default and use the
   retainage to defray the cost of any required work.

18.16.070 - Fee In Lieu of Required Improvements.
A. Where present conditions exist which make it unfeasible or impractical for the applicant or property
    owner to install any required public improvements, the Director may require the subdivider to pay
    to the municipality a fee equal to the estimated cost of such improvements as determined by the
    Municipal Engineer. Upon payment of the fee by the applicant, the municipality shall assume the
    responsibility for future installation of such improvements.

B. The auditor shall establish a special account for such fees and shall credit to such account a
   proportioned share of interest earned from investment of municipal moneys. Records relating to
   identification of properties for which fees have been collected, fee amounts collected for such
   properties and money transfer requests shall be the responsibility of the Planning and Development
   Services division.




White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)          Page 35 of 48
Chapter 18.18 - Subdivision Amendments
18.18.010 - Purpose.
This Chapter establishes review and approval procedures for subdivision amendments and boundary
line adjustments.

18.18.020 - Boundary Line Adjustments.
A. If properly executed and acknowledged as required by law, an agreement between owners of
    adjoining property that designates the boundary line between the adjoining properties acts, upon
    recording in the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder as a quitclaim deed to convey all of each
    party’s right, title, interest, and estate in property outside the agreed boundary line that had been
    the subject of the boundary line agreement or dispute that led to the boundary line agreement.

B. Requirements. Adjoining property owners executing a boundary line agreement described in
   Subsection A shall:

    1. Ensure that the agreement includes:

        a. A legal description of the agreed upon boundary line and of each parcel or lot after the
           boundary line is changed;

        b. The name and signature of each grantor that is party to the agreement;

        c. A sufficient acknowledgment for each grantor’s signature;

        d. The parcel identification number and street address of each grantee for assessment
           purposes;

        e. A legal description of the parcel or lot each grantor owns before the boundary line is
           changed;

        f.   The date of the agreement if the date is not included in the acknowledgment in a form
             substantially similar to a quitclaim deed; and

        g. Ensure that violations of the width, area, frontage, setback and other requirements are not
           created, and that any existing, legal nonconformities are not increased by any degree.

    2. If any of the property subject to the boundary line agreement is part of a subdivision lot,
       prepare an amended plat, to be approved by the land use authority designated by section
       18.08.010, before executing the boundary line agreement; and

    3. If none of the property subject to the boundary line agreement is a part of a subdivision lot,
       ensure that the boundary line agreement includes a statement citing the file number of a record
       of a survey map and file with the County Surveyor.

C. Presumptions. A boundary line agreement described in Subsection A that complies with Subsection
   B presumptively:

    1. Has no detrimental effect on any easement on the property that is recorded before the day on
       which the agreement is executed unless the owner of the property benefitting from the



White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)             Page 36 of 48
        easement specifically modifies the easement within the boundary line agreement or a separate
        recorded easement modification or relinquishment document; and

    2. Relocates the parties’ common boundary line for an exchange of consideration.

D. Metes and Bounds Parcels. A boundary line agreement that only affects metes and bounds parcels is
   not subject to:

    1. Any public notice, public hearing, or preliminary platting requirement;

    2. The review of a land use authority; or

    3. An engineering review or approval of the municipality, except as provided in Subsection E.

E. Boundary Line Agreements when Dwelling Units are present.

    1. If a parcel that is the subject of a boundary line agreement contains a dwelling unit, the owners
       shall submit the boundary line agreement to Planning and Development Services for review.

    2. The purpose of the review is to ensure that violations of the width, area, frontage, setback and
       other requirements are not created, and that any existing, legal nonconformities are not
       increased by any degree.

    3. Planning and Development Services shall complete the review within fourteen (14) days after
       the day on which the property owner submits the boundary line agreement for review.

    4. If Planning and Development Services determines that the boundary line agreement is deficient
       or if additional information is required to approve the boundary line agreement, the division
       shall, within 14 days, send written notice to the property owner that:

        a. Describes the specific deficiency or additional information required to approve the
           boundary line agreement; and

        b. State that the municipality shall approve the boundary line agreement upon the property
           owner’s correction of the deficiency or submission of the additional information described
           in the notice;

    5. If Planning and Development Services approves the boundary line agreement, the division shall
       send written notice of the boundary line agreement’s approval to the property owner within
       fourteen (14) days.

    6. If a municipality fails to send a written notice within fourteen (14) days, the property owner may
       record the boundary line agreement as if no review was required.

18.18.030 - Subdivision Amendments.
A. Application Required. A fee owner of land, as shown on the last county assessment roll, in an
    approved subdivision that has been recorded with the Salt Lake County Recorder may file an
    application with Planning and Development Services to request a subdivision amendment.

B. Plat Required. Upon filing an application to request a subdivision amendment, the owner shall



White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)           Page 37 of 48
    prepare a plat in accordance with section 18.12.040 Chapter 18.10that:

    1. Depicts only the portion of the subdivision that is proposed to be amended;

    2. Includes a plat name distinguishing the amended plat from the original plat;

    3. Describes the differences between the amended plat and the original plat; and

    4. Includes references to the original plat.

C. Notice. The Director or Designee shall provide notice of the petition by mail, email, or other
   effective means to each affected entity that provides a service to an owner of record of the portion
   of the plat that is being vacated or amended at least 10 calendar days before the land use authority
   may approve the petition for a subdivision amendment.

D. Public Hearing Required. The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing within forty-five (45)
   days after the day on which the petition is filed if:

    1. Any owner within the plat notifies the municipality of the owner’s objection in writing within ten
       (10) days of mailed notification; or

    2. A public hearing is required because all of the owners in the subdivision have not signed the
       revised plat.

E. Public Hearing Not Required. The public hearing requirement does not apply, and the Planning
   Commission may consider at a public meeting an owner’s petition for a subdivision amendment if:

    1. The petition seeks to:

        a. Join two (2) or more of the petitioner fee owner’s contiguous lots;

        b. Subdivide one (1) or more of the petitioning fee owner’s lots, if the subdivision will not
           result in a violation of a land use ordinance or a development condition;

        c. Adjust the lot lines of adjoining lots or between a lot and an adjoining parcel if the fee
           owners of each of the adjoining properties join in the petition, regardless of whether the
           properties are located in the same subdivision;

        d. On a lot owned by the petitioning fee owner, adjust an internal lot restriction imposed by
           the local political subdivision; or

        e. Alter the plat in a manner that does not change existing boundaries or other attributes of
           lots within the subdivision that are not:

            i.   Owned by the petitioner; or

            ii. Designated as a common area; and

    2. Notice has been given to adjoining property owners in accordance with any applicable local
       ordinance.




White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)             Page 38 of 48
E. A land use authority may not approve a petition for a subdivision amendment under this section
   unless the amendment identifies and preserves any easements owned by a culinary water authority
   and sanitary sewer authority for existing facilities located within the subdivision.

F. A request to amend a public street or municipal utility easement is also subject to Section 18.18.050.

G. A request to amend an entire plat or a portion of a plat shall include:

    1. The name and address of each owner of record of the land contained in the entire plat or on
       that portion of the plat described in the petition; and

    2. The signature of each owner of record of the land contained in the entire plat or on that portion
       of the plat described in the petition who consents to the petition.

H. The name of a recorded subdivision may be changed by recording an amended plat making that
   change, as provided in this Section. An owner of land may not submit for recording an amended plat
   that gives the subdivision described in the amended plat the same name as a subdivision in a plat
   already recorded in the Salt Lake County recorder’s office.

    1. The surveyor preparing the amended plat shall certify that the surveyor:

        a. Holds a license in accordance with Utah Code; and

        b. Has completed a survey of the property described on the plat in accordance Utah Code and
           has verified all measurements; or

        c. Has referenced a record of survey map of the existing property boundaries shown on the
           plat and verified the locations of the boundaries; and

        d. Has placed monuments as represented on the plat.

18.18.040 - Approval of Vacation or Amendment of Plat.
A. The land use authority may approve the vacation or amendment of a plat by signing an amended
    plat showing the vacation or amendment if the land use authority finds that:

    1. There is good cause for the vacation or amendment; and

    2. No public street or municipal utility easement has been vacated or amended.

B. The land use authority shall ensure that the amended plat showing the vacation or amendment is
   recorded in the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder.

C. If the amended plat is approved and recorded in accordance with this section, the recorded plat
   shall vacate, supersede, and replace any contrary provision in a previously recorded plat of the same
   land.

D. The Council may vacate a subdivision or a portion of a subdivision by recording in the Salt Lake
   County Recorder’s office an ordinance describing the subdivision or the portion being vacated. The
   recorded vacating ordinance shall replace a previously recorded plat described in the vacating
   ordinance.



White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)           Page 39 of 48
E. An amended plat may not be submitted to the Salt Lake County recorder for recording unless it is:

    1. Signed by the land use authority; and

    2. Signed, acknowledged, and dedicated by each owner of record of the portion of the plat that is
       amended.

F. A management committee may sign and dedicate an amended plat as provided in Utah Code, Title
   57, Chapter 8, Condominium Ownership Act.

G. A plat may be corrected as provided in Utah Code Section 57-3-106.

18.18.050 - Petition to Vacate a Public Street.
A. In lieu of vacating some or all of a public street through a plat or amended plat in accordance with
    Utah Code, a legislative body may approve a petition to vacate a public street in accordance with
    this Section.

B. Application. A petition to vacate some or all of a public street or municipal utility easement shall
   include:

    1. The name and address of each owner of record of land that is:

        a. Adjacent to the public street or municipal utility easement between the two nearest public
           street intersections; or

        b. Accessed exclusively by or within three hundred feet (300’) feet of the public street or
           municipal utility easement;

    2. Proof of written notice to operators of utilities and culinary water or sanitary sewer facilities
       located within the bounds of the public street or municipal utility easement sought to be
       vacated; and

    3. The signature of each owner due notice who consents to the vacation.

C. Notice. If a petition is submitted containing a request to vacate some or all of a public street or
   municipal utility easement, the legislative body shall hold a public hearing, giving notice of the date,
   place, and time of the hearing as follows:

    1. At least ten (10) days before the public hearing, the legislative body shall ensure that notice is:

        a. Mailed to the record owner of each parcel that is accessed by the public street or municipal
           utility easement;

        b. Mailed to each affected entity;

        c. Posted on or near the public street or municipal utility easement in a manner that is
           calculated to alert the public; and

        d. Publish notice on the municipal website and the Utah Public Notice Website until the public
           hearing concludes.




White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)              Page 40 of 48
D. Determination. After having held a public hearing as required herein, the Council shall determine
   whether:

    1. Good cause exists for the vacation; and

    2. The public interest or any person will be materially injured by the proposed vacation.

E. Adoption. The legislative body may adopt an ordinance granting a petition to vacate some or all of a
   public street or municipal utility easement if the legislative body finds that:

    1. Good cause exists for the vacation; and

    2. Neither the public interest nor any person will be materially injured by the vacation.

F. Recording. If the legislative body adopts an ordinance vacating some or all of a public street or
   municipal utility easement, the legislative body shall ensure that one or both of the following is
   recorded in the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder:

    1. A plat reflecting the vacation; or

    2. An ordinance described in Subsection D and a legal description of the public street to be
       vacated.

G. Limitations. The action of the legislative body vacating some or all of a public street or municipal
   utility easement that has been dedicated to public use:

    1. Operates to the extent to which it is vacated, upon the effective date of the recorded plat or
       ordinance, as a revocation of the acceptance of and the relinquishment of the municipality’s fee
       in the vacated public street or municipal utility easement; and

    2. May not be construed to impair:

        a. Any right-of-way or easement of any parcel or lot owner;

        b. The rights of any public utility; or

        c. The rights of a culinary water authority or sanitary sewer authority.

G. Municipal Petition to Vacate. A municipality may submit a petition, in accordance with Subsection B,
   and initiate and complete a process to vacate some or all of a public street.

    1. If a municipality submits a petition and initiates a process under this subsection:

        a. The legislative body shall hold a public hearing;

        b. The petition and process may not apply to or affect a public utility easement, except to the
           extent:

            i.   The easement is not a protected utility easement as defined in Utah Code;

            ii. The easement is included within the public street; and




White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)             Page 41 of 48
            iii. The notice to vacate the public street also contains a notice to vacate the easement; and

        c. A recorded ordinance to vacate a public street has the same legal effect as vacating a public
           street through a recorded plat or amended plat.

H. Water and Sewer Easements. A legislative body may not approve a petition to vacate a public street
   under this section unless the vacation identifies and preserves any easements owned by a culinary
   water authority and sanitary sewer authority for existing facilities located within the public street.

18.18.060 - Amendments to Create Additional Lots.
An amendment to a recorded subdivision to create one or more additional lots shall follow the approval
procedure outlined in Chapter 18.08. Where the amendment does not include the creation of additional
infrastructure beyond service lines, this amendment process may utilize a streamlined final plat process.

18.18.070 - Other Amendments to Subdivisions.
An amendment to a recorded subdivision that involves the alteration or removal of an easement,
private right-of-way, condition, limitation, or special requirement shall follow the approval procedure
outlined in Chapter 18.08 with the following variations:

A. Only those persons or entities who have a direct interest in, or who will be directly affected by the
   proposed change (including the applicant) must be notified of any pending action; and

B. No preliminary plat need be approved. The recommendations of the affected entities and the
   approval of the Planning Commission may be based on a final plat.

18.18.080 - Correction of Technical Errors.
An amendment to correct a technical error, such as misnumbered street addresses or an errant note on
the plat may be done through recording an affidavit of correction by the Director.




Chapter 18.20 - Filing Professional Surveys
18.20.010 - Filing Required, Indexing and Fees.
A. Any registered professional land surveyor making a survey of private lands within this state who
    establishes or reestablishes any private property boundary monument shall file a map of the survey
    that meets the requirements of this Chapter with the County Surveyor within ninety days of the
    establishment or reestablishment of the boundary monument.



White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)            Page 42 of 48
B. The County Surveyor shall file and index the map of the survey which will thereafter be a public
   record in the office of the County Surveyor and will be available for examination by the public. The
   County Surveyor will provide facilities for copying such maps and associated documents.

C. Fees will be charged for services in accordance with the adopted fee schedule.

D. The requirements of this section are in addition to Chapter 14.17, Excavation Permit for
   Monuments.

18.20.020 - Contents of Maps.
A. The County Surveyor will screen maps of survey that are submitted to him to ensure that they
    conform to the requirements set forth in this Chapter before receiving them. Such maps shall be
    drawn on a twenty-four-inch by thirty-six-inch linen and shall show:

    1. The location of survey by quarter section and township and range;

    2. The date of survey;

    3. The scale of drawing and north point;

    4. The distance and course of all lines traced or established, giving the basis of bearing and the
       distance and course to a section corner or quarter corner, including township and range, or an
       identified monument within a recorded subdivision;

    5. All measured bearings, angles and distances separately indicated from those of record;

    6. A written boundary description of property surveyed;

    7. All monuments set and their relation to older monuments found;

    8. A detailed description of monuments found and monuments set, indicated separately;

    9. The surveyor's seal or stamp;

    10. The surveyor's business name and address.

18.20.030 - Written Narrative.
A. The map of survey will include a written narrative that explains and identifies the purpose of the
    survey; the basis on which the lines were established; and the found monuments and deed
    elements that controlled or reestablished lines. either on the map itself or on a separate document.
    If on a separate document, such narrative will be typed on eight-and-one-half-inch by eleven-inch
    white paper of a permanent nature on stable base. The narrative will include:

1. An explanation of the purpose of the survey;

2. The basis on which the lines were established; and

3. The found monuments and deed elements that controlled the established or reestablished lines;

4. The location of the survey by quarter section and by township and range;




White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)           Page 43 of 48
5. The date of the survey;

6. The surveyor's stamp or seal; and

7. The surveyor's business name and address.

B. The map and narrative will be referenced to each other if they are separate documents.

18.20.040 - Marking Monuments.
A. Any monument set by a licensed professional land surveyor to mark or reference a point on a
    property of land or land line shall be durably and visibly marked or tagged with the registered
    business name or the letters "L.S." followed by the registration number of the surveyor in charge.

B. If the monument is set by a public officer, it shall be marked with the official Title of the office.

18.20.050 - Changes of Section or Quarter Section Corners.
A. If, in the performance of a survey, a surveyor finds or makes any changes to the section corner or
    quarter-section corner, or their accessories as they are described in an existing corner record or
    survey map in the office of the County Surveyor, the surveyor shall complete and submit to the
    County Surveyor a record of the changes made.

B. The record shall be submitted within forty-five days of the corner visits and shall include the
   surveyor's seal, business name, and address.

18.20.060 - Compliance by Governmental Agencies.
Each federal or state agency, board or commission, special service district, or municipal corporation that
makes a boundary survey of lands within Salt Lake County shall comply with this Chapter.

18.20.070 - Amendment by Affidavit.
A. Any survey map or narrative filed and recorded under the provisions of this Chapter may be
    amended by an affidavit of corrections:

    1. To show any courses or distances omitted from the map or narrative;

    2. To correct an error in the description of the real property shown on the map or narrative; or

    3. To correct any other errors or omissions where the error or omission is ascertainable from the
       data shown on the map or narrative as recorded.

B. The affidavit of correction shall be prepared by the licensed professional land surveyor who filed the
   map or narrative.

C. In the event of the death, disability or retirement from practice of the surveyor who filed the map or
   narrative, the County Surveyor may prepare the affidavit of correction.

D. The affidavit shall set forth in detail the corrections made.

E. The seal and signature of the licensed professional land surveyor filing the affidavit of correction
   shall be affixed to the affidavit.




White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)                Page 44 of 48
18.20.080 - County Surveyor Certification.
A. The County Surveyor having jurisdiction of the map or narrative shall certify that the affidavit of
    correction has been examined and that the changes shown on the map or narrative are changes
    permitted under this section.

B. Nothing in this section permits changes in courses or distances for the purpose of redesigning parcel
   configurations.

18.20.090 - Penalty.
Anyone who fails to file a map of survey as required in this Chapter is guilty of an infraction.




White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)               Page 45 of 48
Chapter 18.22 - Health Department Regulations
18.22.010 Adoption of Health Regulations.
The regulating provisions of the Salt Lake County Health Department entitled "Subdivisions," as
currently adopted by the board of health under authority of the Utah State Code are incorporated in
their entirety by reference. Three copies of the current regulations shall be filed with and retained by
the county clerk and the health department for examination by any person.

18.22.020 Violations.
Violation of any provision of any health regulation incorporated into this Title shall constitute a Class B
misdemeanor as defined by the Utah State Code. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punished as such.




White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)               Page 46 of 48
Chapter 18.24 - Fees, Administration and Enforcement
18.24.010 Building Permit Issuance.
From the time of the effective date of the ordinance codified in this Title, the building inspector shall not
grant a permit, nor shall any municipal officer grant any license or permit for the use of any land or the
construction or alteration of any building or structure on a lot which would be in violation of any
provisions of this Title until a subdivision plat has been recorded or approved as required in this Chapter.
Any license or permit issued in conflict with such provisions shall be void.

18.24.020 Filing Fee.
Any and all persons filing plats with the Salt Lake County Recorder shall first have paid all fees required
in this Title. In addition, persons filing plats shall pay to the planning and development services division
prior to recording, an office checking fee as provided for in Section 3.48.020.

18.24.030 Inspections.
Planning and Development Services shall inspect or cause to be inspected all buildings, street
improvements, fire hydrants and water supply and sewage disposal systems in the course of
construction, installation or repair. Excavations for the fire hydrants and water and sewer mains and
laterals shall not be covered or backfilled until such installation shall have been approved by the service
provider. If any such installation is covered before being inspected and approved, it shall be uncovered
after notice to uncover has been issued to the responsible person by the inspector.

18.24.040 Enforcement Authority.
Planning and Development Services, Municipal Engineer, Fire Authority, and such other divisions as are
specified under the provisions of this Title are designated and authorized as the agencies charged with
the enforcement of the provisions of this Title and shall enter such actions in court as are necessary.
Failure of such departments to pursue appropriate legal remedies shall not legalize any violation of such
provisions.

18.24.050. Forms and Instructions.
Application forms and instructions for preparing and processing plats and plans in accordance with
these regulations are periodically updated. Current copies of these forms and instructions are available
upon request from the Director. Documentation requirements are also specified in Chapter 18.10, and
application completeness standards are articulated in Chapter 18.08. Applicants will be required to
submit such other information as may be required by the Director of Designee.




White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)               Page 47 of 48
Chapter 18.26 - Violations and Penalties
18.26.010 Prohibited Acts.
A. If a subdivision requires a plat, an owner of any land located in a subdivision who transfers or sells
    any land in that subdivision before a plat of the subdivision has been approved and recorded
    violates this part for each lot or parcel transferred or sold.

B. The description by metes and bounds in an instrument of transfer or other documents used in the
   process of selling or transferring does not exempt the transaction from being a violation of this
   subsection or from the penalties or remedies provided in this chapter.

C. Notwithstanding any other provision of this subsection, the recording of an instrument of transfer or
   other document used in the process of selling or transferring real property that violates this part:

    1. Does not affect the validity of the instrument or other document; and

    2. Does not affect whether the property that is the subject of the instrument or other document
       complies with applicable municipal ordinances on land use and development.

18.26.020 Violation—Penalty.
Whoever shall violate any of the provisions of this Title, including the violation of a condition, limitation
or requirement contained on a recorded subdivision plat, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction of any such violation, shall be punished as provided by the state criminal code for Class B
misdemeanors.

18.26.030 Violation - Remedies.
A. A municipality may bring an action against an owner to require the property to conform to the
    provisions of this part or an ordinance enacted under the authority of this part.

B. An action under this Subsection may include an injunction or any other appropriate action or
   proceeding to prevent or enjoin the violation.

C. A municipality need only establish the violation to obtain the injunction.




White City Draft Title 18 Subdivisions with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)                Page 48 of 48
          DRAFT WHITE CITY ZONING ORDINANCE ALL CHAPTERS
                  Public Hearing Draft April 27, 2023
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 19.02: TITLE, PURPOSE, AND APPLICABILITY
CHAPTER 19.04: DEFINITIONS
CHAPTER 19.06: NONCONFORMITIES
CHAPTER 19.08: ENFORCEMENT
CHAPTER 19.10: PROCEDURES FOR ANALYZING TAKINGS
Article II. ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 19.12: ADMINISTRATIVE BODIES, POWERS & DUTIES
CHAPTER 19.14: ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES, ZONING MAP, AMENDMENTS
CHAPTER 19.16: LAND USE PROCESSES AND PROCEDURES
CHAPTER 19.18: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 19.20: VARIANCES, APPEALS, AND EXCEPTIONS
Article III. ZONE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 19.22: PARKS AND RECREATION ZONE
CHAPTER 19.24: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 19.26: AGRICULTURAL ZONES
CHAPTER 19.28: SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONES
CHAPTER 19.30: MEDIUM AND HIGH-DENSITYMEDIUM-DENSITY RESIDENTIAL ZONES
CHAPTER 19.32: COMMERCIAL ZONES
CHAPTER 19.34: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 19.36: MIXED-USE ZONES
CHAPTER 19.38: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 19.40: (RESERVED)
Article IV. SPECIFIC AND TEMPORARY USE STANDARDS
CHAPTER 19.42: SPECIFIC USE STANDARDS
CHAPTER 19.44: TEMPORARY USE STANDARDS
Article V. DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
CHAPTER 19.46: SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS


White City Draft Title 19 Zoning with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)   Page 1 of 262
CHAPTER 19.48: OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
CHAPTER 19.50: LANDSCAPING, SCREENING, AND WATER EFFICIENCY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 19.52: SIGNS
CHAPTER 19.54: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 19.56: FLOOD PLAIN REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 19.58: GEOLOGICAL HAZARDS
CHAPTER 19.60: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 19.62: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 19.64: (RESERVED)




Page 2 of 262
                       Chapter 19.02 Title, Purpose, Applicability
19.02.010 - Title.
This Title shall be known as "The Zoning Ordinance of White City Metro Township " and shall be referred
to herein as “the Ordinance” or “this Ordinance.”
19.02.020 - Organization.
The Zoning Ordinance of White City Metro Township is organized into five articles:
A. Article I, “General Provisions” comprising chapters 19.02 – 19.10, addresses:
   1. The organization and purpose of the Ordinance, together with definitions and enforcement
       procedures; and
   2. The criteria for addressing nonconforming uses, as well as procedures for analyzing takings.
B. Article II, “Administration” comprising chapters 19.12 – 19.20, addresses:
   1. The process for applying for various types of land use and land development permits, and the
       procedures for amending the General Plan, amending the Ordinance, and petitioning for zone
       changes; and
   2. The roles of each administrative body in the land use and development process;
C. Article III, “Zone Regulations” comprising chapters 19.22 – 19.40, addresses the regulations for each
   zoning district, including the permitted or conditional land uses and densities that are allowed in
   each zone.
D. Article IV, “Specific and Temporary Use Standards,” comprising chapters 19.42 – 19.44, addresses
   standards that are specific to the activity or use of a given property, including standards for long-
   term as well as temporary uses.
E. Article V, “Development Standards,” comprising chapters 19.46 – 19.64, addresses:
   1. General standards applicable to the development of land;
   2. Standards particular to a development district or overlay zone; and
   3. Infrastructure, site design, signs, additional building standards (mass, height, setbacks), and
       natural conditions (such as slope, soils, drainage, etc.).
19.02.030 - Purpose.
A. The Ordinance is intended to promote the health, safety, morals, order, prosperity and welfare of
   the inhabitants of White City Metro Township which includes:
   1. Reducing congestion on the streets and roads;
   2. Securing safety from fire and other dangers;
   3. Protecting the quality of light and air;
   4. Classifying land uses, development, and utilization;
   5. Protecting the tax base;
   6. Securing efficiency in governmental expenditures;
   7. Fostering agriculture and economic development;
   8. Protecting both urban and nonurban development; and
   9. Balancing private property rights with public purposes.




White City Draft Title 19 Zoning with Track Changes (Public Hearing Draft)                 Page 3 of 262
19.02.040 - Applicability.
A. Territorial Application. All land and parcels of real property within the jurisdictional limits of White
   City Metro Township is covered by the provisions of this Ordinance.
B. General Applicability.
   1. Except where specific exemptions have been granted for nonconforming uses, noncomplying
        structures, or lots of record, the regulations contained in this Ordinance apply to all uses,
        structures, and parcels of real property, including those recorded prior to the enactment of this
        Ordinance.
   2. Every dwelling shall be located and maintained on a lot, as defined in this Ordinance. Except for
        dwelling groups and guest houses.
C. General Prohibition. No portion or whole of any structure or land shall be used, occupied,
   constructed, moved, enlarged, or structurally altered except as provided by this Ordinance. Land
   needed to meet the width, yard, area, coverage, parking or other requirements of this title for a lot
   or building shall not be sold or conveyed away from such lot or building.
D. Private Agreements. This Ordinance is not intended to enforce any private agreement or covenant.
   If this Ordinance is more restrictive than a private agreement or covenant, this Ordinance prevails.
E. Other Laws and Regulations. This Ordinance controls over less restrictive State or municipal
   statutes, ordinances, or regulations.
19.02.050 – Transition Rules.
A. In those instances where this Ordinance conflicts with previously applicable zoning regulations, the
   following rules apply:
   1. Previously Approved Lots.
        a. The requirements of this Ordinance as to minimum lot area or lot width shall not be
            construed to prevent the use of any lot or lot of record for a land use listed as a permitted
            use in the underlying zone, provided that:
            (1) The use and development standards set forth in Articles IV and V of this Ordinance are
                followed, and
            (2) The lot was legally divided according to the applicable laws at the time of division and
                was held in separate ownership no later than the effective date of an ordinance under
                which the lot would not meet the minimum lot area or width.
   2. Previously Issued Building Permits. If a building permit for a structure was lawfully issued prior
        to the effective date of this Ordinance or any amendments to this Ordinance, and if construction
        has begun within 180 days of the issuance of that permit, the structure may be completed in
        accordance with the plans on the basis of which the building permit was issued and upon
        completion may be occupied under an occupancy permit for the use originally intended.
   3. Previously Granted Approvals.
        a. All approvals granted prior to the effective date of this Ordinance remain in full force and
            effect. The recipient of the approval may proceed to develop the property in accordance
            with the approved plans and any applicable conditions.
        b. If the recipient has failed to act on an approval before the approval expires, including any
            periods of extension granted, the provisions of this Ordinance control.




Page 4 of 262
19.02.060 – Severability.
If any provision of this Ordinance is adjudged by any court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, that
judgment does not affect, impair, invalidate or nullify the remaining provisions of this Ordinance. The
effect of the judgment is confined to the provision immediately involved in the controversy in which the
judgment or decree was rendered.




                                   Chapter 19.04 Definitions
19.04.010 – Definitions and Interpretation of Language.
For the purpose of this Titles 18 and 19 of this Ordinance, certain words and terms are defined as set out
in this Chapter. Words used in the present tense include the future; words in the singular number
include the plural and the plural the singular, and words included herein but defined in the building code
shall be construed as defined therein.
19.04.020 – General Definitions.
A. General terms used in Title 19 are defined as follows:
   1. "Affected Entity" means a county, municipality, local district, special service district under Title
      17D, Chapter 1, Special Service District Act, school district, interlocal cooperation entity
      established under Title 11, Chapter 13, Interlocal Cooperation Act, specified public utility,
      property owner, property owners association, or the Utah Department of Transportation, if:
      a. The entity's services or facilities are likely to require expansion or significant modification
          because of an intended use of land;
      b. The entity has filed with the municipality a copy of the entity's general or long-range plan; or
      c. The entity has filed with the municipality a request for notice during the same calendar year
          and before the municipality provides notice to an affected entity in compliance with a
          requirement imposed under this Ordinance or Utah Code.
   2. “Agent” means a person with written authorization to represent a property owner.
   3. "Animal Rights" means the keeping of livestock and fowl, limited to one animal unit and their
      seasonal offspring for each ten (10) thousand square feet.
   2. “Animal Unit” means a proportionate combination of the following:
      a. One (1) cow, or one (1) horse, or one (1) pig, or one (1) llama, or one (1) other similar large
          animal.
      b. Four (4) adult sheep or feeder lambs, or two (2) alpacas (similar to llama).
      c. Two (2) goats.
      d. Ten (10) chickens, or ten (10) ducks, or ten (10) pigeons, or ten (10) similar small fowl,
          subject to the standards and requirements of this Title, Salt Lake County Animal Services,
          and Salt Lake County Health Department that ensure that domesticated fowl do not
          adversely impact the neighborhood surrounding the property on which the domestic fowl
          are kept. For regulations regarding the keeping of chickens, see Chapter 19.42 of this Title.
      e. Twelve (12) rabbits, or twelve (12) similar small animals.
      f. Two (2) large birds such as ostriches, or emus, or peacocks.
      g. Four (4) turkeys.

Page 5 of 262
       h. The total animal units located on a given parcel or animal operation shall be determined by
            adding the animal units for each animal type. For the purpose of determining compliance,
            said definition shall not include the unweaned offspring of any residing animal which is less
            than six (6) months in age.
   3. “Appeal Authority” means the same as “Land Use Hearing Officer.”
   4. “Applicant” means the person who makes formal application for a license, permit, subdivision or
       submits any application pursuant to Title 18 or 19.
   5. "Bench Mark" means a mark affixed to a permanent or semi-permanent object along a line of
       survey to furnish a datum level.
   6. “Boundary Line Agreement” means an agreement to establish the location of a boundary
       between adjoining properties where the location of the boundary is ambiguous, uncertain, or
       disputed.
   7. “Buffer” means an area along the course of any watercourse or roadway or boundary line to be
       maintained without the disturbance of buildings or structures other than fencing, if allowed.
   8. “Business Day” means a day in which normal business operations are conducted. Saturdays,
       Sundays, and Holidays and days Planning and Development Services are not open are not
       considered business days.
   9. “Concept Plat / Drawing” means a drawing that shows the overall concept of a proposed
       development, as further defined in these regulations.
   10. "Conditional Use" means a land use that has unique characteristics or negative effects that may
       not be compatible in an area without conditions to mitigate or eliminate the detrimental
       impacts. A land use listed as a conditional use is a use of land for which a conditional use permit
       is required pursuant to this title.
   11. “Conservation Easement” means an easement that perpetually prohibits further development
       or use inconsistent with, or harmful to, the enhancement, preservation, and protection of a
       defined area for the benefit of fish, wildlife, plants, or other similar ecosystems, or preserves
       such areas predominantly in their natural scenic or open condition; but which may, in the sole
       discretion of the [insert name of jurisdiction], permit recreational and/or agricultural uses which
       do not involve significant alteration or development of the restricted area in a manner which is
       inconsistent with, or harmful to, the preservation and protection of the restricted area.
   12. "Council" means the municipal council, unless otherwise clearly indicated.
   13. “Culinary Water Authority” means the department, agency, or public entity with the
       responsibility to review and approve the feasibility of the culinary water system and sources for
       the subject property.
   14. "Development" means any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including
       but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving,
       excavation or drilling operations.
   15. “Development Code” means Titles 18 and 19 of the Municipal Code.
   16. “Development Review Committee (DRC)” means Planning and Development Services Staff, in
       consultation with agencies contracted with the municipality for engineering, health, fire, and
       surveying reviews and services. Comments from other affected entities, service providers or
       other reviewing agencies may also be solicited as needed.
   17. "Director" means the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Director of Planning and
       Development Services.

Page 6 of 262
   18. "Dwelling" means any building or structure, or portion thereof, intended for residential use.
   19. "Dwelling unit" means one or more rooms physically arranged so as to create an independent
       housekeeping establishment for occupancy by one family with separate toilets and facilities for
       cooking and sleeping. Buildings with more than one kitchen or set of cooking facilities are
       considered to contain more than one dwelling unit unless the additional cooking facilities are
       clearly accessory to a dwelling unit as determined by the development services director. Factors
       for determining whether cooking facilities are accessory to a dwelling unit may include but are
       not limited to:
       a. A building design which allows all occupants ready access to all portions of the building
            including cooking facilities;
       b. No portion of the building containing cooking facilities can be separated from the remaining
            rooms to form a separate dwelling unit;
       c. There is only one electric and/or gas meter for the building.
   20. "Easement" means the quantity of land set aside or over which a liberty, privilege or advantage
       in land without profit, existing distinct from the ownership of the land, is granted to the public
       or some particular person or part of the public.
   21. "Facility company" means a company not regulated by the public service commission that
       provides a service including but not limited to cable television or telecommunications.
   22. “Family” means one of the following groups of individuals, but not more than one group at the
       same time:
       a. An individual living alone; or
       b. Two (2) or more people, all of whom are related to one designated occupant of the dwelling
            by blood, marriage, adoption, or legal guardianship and their foster children, and up to two
            (2) other unrelated persons who do not pay rent; or
       c. Up to four (4) related or unrelated individuals who live and cook together as a single
            housekeeping unit; or
       d. Two (2) unrelated individuals and any children of either of them living as a single
            housekeeping unit.
   23. "Good Cause" means incapacitating illness; death; lack of proper notice; unavailability due to
       unavoidable, unpreventable, or extenuating emergency or circumstance; if a required act causes
       an imminent and irreparable injury; or acts of nature adverse to performing required acts.
   24. "Graffiti" means inscriptions, drawings, paintings, or other visual defacing of buildings,
       structures, or natural features, without the consent of the owner thereof, and which is not
       otherwise authorized and permitted in municipal ordinances.
   25. “Guest” means a person paying for staying or receiving services at a bed and breakfast, hotel,
       motel, resort, or similar facility.
   26. "Guestroom" means a room that is designed for double occupancy by guests, for sleeping
       purposes.
   27. “Health Department” means the Health Department of Salt Lake County, Utah.
   28. “Inoperable Vehicle” means a vehicle that is not currently registered or licensed in the State of
       Utah or in another state, or which has been dismantled or wrecked to the point of being non-
       drivable.
   29. “Land Trust” means a private non-stock, non-profit corporation that has as its purpose the
       preservation.

Page 7 of 262
   30. “Land Use Application” means an application required by the zoning or subdivision ordinances.
   31. “Land Use Authority” means the person, board, commission, agency, or other body designated
       by the White City Metro Township Council to act upon a land use application.
   32. “Land Use Decision” means any final decision of the municipal council, planning commission, or
       final administrative decision of the Director or other official responsible for the enforcement of
       zoning and subdivision regulations.
   33. “Land Use Hearing Officer” means the “Appeal Authority” created pursuant to section 10-9a.701
       of the Utah Code annotated to hear appeals to zoning decisions applying to the zoning
       ordinance as provided in Section 19.16.020 and for decisions by the planning commission. The
       land use hearing officer is also the appeal authority for subdivision appeals subject to Section
       18.08.040 of this Ordinance. The land use hearing officer is also charged with the powers and
       duties enumerated in Section 19.12.040.C of this Title.
   34. “Legal Lot Of Record” means any land parcel that existed, as recorded in the Office of the Salt
       Lake County Recorder, with a separate property identification number as provided by the Office
       of the Salt Lake County Recorder and Office of the Salt Lake County Assessor, prior to December
       17, 1952, and all land parcels that were legally created for the purposes of development
       pursuant to the applicable zoning and subdivision requirements and the laws of the State of
       Utah after the date of first Subdivision Ordinance enactment.
   35. “Local Jurisdiction” means the municipality, or other political subdivision adopting this
       Ordinance.
   36. “Membrane Covered Frame Structure” means a non-pressurized building wherein the structure
       is composed of a rigid framework to support a tensioned membrane that provides the weather
       barrier.
   37. "Minor Local Street" means a street, existing or proposed, often of limited continuity, the
       primary purpose of which is to provide access to property and serve the local needs of a
       neighborhood. A minor local street carries low volumes of traffic at the lowest speed limits.
   38. “Monument” means a permanent survey marker established by the Salt Lake County Surveyor
       and/or a survey marker set in accordance with the Salt Lake County Surveyor’s specifications
       and referenced to County survey monuments.
   39. "Municipal Engineering Division" means the division or personnel hired by or contracted with
       the municipality to provide engineering services.
   40. "Municipal Flood Control Division" means the division or personnel hired by or contracted with
       the municipality to provide flood control and water quality services.
   41. “Municipal Geologist” means the personnel hired by or contracted with the municipality to
       provide geologic hazard review and geology services.
   42. “Natural Condition” means the topography and vegetation of the area that is unaltered by
       clearing and grading during construction and protected in perpetuity.
   43. "Noncomplying Structure" means a building or other structure or portion thereof lawfully
       constructed in compliance with the zoning ordinance existing at the time of construction, that
       no longer conforms to the height, area, and/or yard regulations in the zone in which it is located
       due to changes to the zoning ordinance or to the subsequent public acquisition of land for public
       improvements. Includes Nonconforming Structures.




Page 8 of 262
   44. "Nonconforming Use" means a use which lawfully occupied a building or land at the time the
       ordinance codified in this title became effective and which does not conform with the use
       regulations of the zone in which it is located.
   45. “Nonconforming Lot” means a legally established lot or parcel that met the applicable area,
       width and other applicable requirements in effect at the time the lot or parcel was created, but
       which fails by reason of such adoption, revision or amendment of the zoning ordinance, to
       conform to the present requirements of the zone in which it is located.
   46. "Owner" includes the plural as well as the singular, and may mean either a natural person, firm,
       association, partnership, private corporation, public or quasi-public corporation, or any
       combination thereof having a majority fee simple interest in real property, or a majority interest
       through any other form of ownership.
   47. "Parcel of Land" means a contiguous quantity of land, in the possession of, or owned by, or
       recorded as the property of, the same claimant or person.
   48. “Permitted Use” means any use allowed in a zoning district and subject to the restrictions
       applicable to that zoning district.
   49. “Planning and Development Services or Planning and Development Services Department”
       means the Planning and Development Services Department of the Greater Salt Lake Municipal
       Services District.
   50. "Planning Commission" means the municipal planning commission.
   51. “Pre-Existing Lot” means a lot that was created prior to the adoption of this ordinance, through
       a recorded subdivision plat, deed, sales contract, or survey, and a lot that met the zoning
       regulations in effect at the time of its creation. For the purposes of this title, a pre-existing lot is
       a nonconforming lot and shall be regulated in the same manner as nonconforming lots.
   52. “Pre-Existing Structure” means a structure that was legally constructed prior to the adoption of
       this ordinance. For the purposes of this title, a pre-existing structure is a nonconforming
       structure and shall be regulated in the same manner as nonconforming structures.
   53. “Pre-Existing Use” means a use that validly existed prior to the adoption of this ordinance and
       has not been abandoned for more than one year. For the purposes of this title, a pre-existing
       use is a nonconforming use and shall be regulated in the same manner as nonconforming uses.
   54. “Provisional Parking” means an area or areas within a parking lot where parking spaces which
       are shown on the approved parking plan are landscaped rather than paved.
   55. “Public Works Operations” means the division or personnel hired by or contracted with the
       municipality to provide road construction and maintenance, snow removal, and othe related
       services.
   56. “Residential Roadway” means a public local residential road that:
       a. Will serve primarily to provide access to adjacent primarily residential areas and properties;
       b. Is designed to accommodate minimal traffic volumes or vehicle traffic;
       c. Is not identified as a supplementary to a collector or other higher system classified street in
            an approved municipal street or transportation master plan;
       d. Has a posted speed limit of 25 miles per hour or less;
       e. Does not have higher traffic volumes resulting from connecting previously separated areas
            of the municipal road network;




Page 9 of 262
       f.    Cannot have a primary access, but can have a secondary access, and does not abut lots
             intended for high volume traffic or community centers, including schools, recreation
             centers, sports complexes, or libraries; and
       g. Primarily serves traffic within a neighborhood or limited residential area and is necessarily
             continuous through several residential areas.
   57. “Road” can be used interchangeably with the word street.
   58. “Record of Survey Map” means a map of a survey of land prepared in accordance with Utah
       Code.
   59. “Sanitary Sewer Authority” means the department, agency, or public entity with responsibility
       to review and approve the feasibility of sanitary sewer services or onsite wastewater systems.
   60. “Standards and Specifications” means the construction and design requirements and standards
       of the municipality for the construction and installation of public infrastructure and
       improvements. The documents shall be approved by the Municipal Engineer and approved by
       Resolution by the Council.
   61. "Start of Construction" includes substantial improvement, and means the date the building
       permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, placement,
       or other improvement was within one hundred eighty days of the permit date. The actual start
       means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
       pouring of slabs or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work
       beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
       "Permanent construction" does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and
       filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
       excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
       nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or
       sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not as part of the main structure.
   62. "Street" means a thoroughfare which has been dedicated or abandoned to the public and
       accepted by proper public authority, or a thoroughfare, not less than twenty-five feet wide,
       which has been made public by right of use and which affords the principal means of access to
       abutting property. Street does not include alleys or trails. May sometimes be referred to as
       road.
   63. “Street, Private” means an access way, other than a driveway, similar to and having substantially
       the same or similar function as a public street, providing access to one or more properties, but
       held in private ownership.
   64. "Street Light" means a raised light installed within or adjacent to the street right-of-way, turned
       on or lit at a certain time every night. Modern lamps may also have light-sensitive photocells to
       turn them on at dusk and off at sunrise or activate automatically in foul weather.
   65. "Structure" means anything constructed or erected which requires location on the ground, or
       attached to something having a location on the ground.
   66. "Structural Alterations" means any change in supporting members of a building or structure,
       such as bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders.
   67. "Subdivision" means any land that is divided, resubdivided, or proposed to be divided into two
       or more lots or other division of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, for offer,
       sale, lease, or development either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans,
       terms, and conditions.

Page 10 of 262
       a. "Subdivision" includes:
          i. The division or development of land, whether by deed, metes and bounds description,
               devise and testacy, map, plat, or other recorded instrument, regardless of whether the
               division includes all or a portion of a parcel or lot; and
          ii. Except as provided in Subsection B, divisions of land for residential and nonresidential
               uses, including land used or to be used for commercial, agricultural, and industrial
               purposes.
       b. "Subdivision" does not include:
          i. A bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for the purpose of joining one of the
               resulting separate parcels to a contiguous parcel of unsubdivided agricultural land, if
               neither the resulting combined parcel nor the parcel remaining from the division or
               partition violates an applicable land use ordinance;
          ii. A boundary line agreement recorded with the county recorder's office between owners
               of adjoining parcels adjusting the mutual boundary in accordance with Section 10-9a-
               524 if no new parcel is created;
          iii. A recorded document, executed by the owner of record:
               (a) Revising the legal descriptions of multiple parcels into one legal description
                    encompassing all such parcels; or
               (b) Joining a lot to a parcel;
               (c) A boundary line agreement between owners of adjoining subdivided properties
                    adjusting the mutual lot line boundary in accordance with Utah Code Annotated,
                    Sections 10-9a-524 and 10-9a-608, if:
                    (i) No new dwelling lot or housing unit will result from the adjustment; and
                    (ii) The adjustment will not violate any applicable land use ordinance;
               (d) A bona fide division of land by deed or other instrument if the deed or other
                    instrument states in writing that the division:
                    (i) Is in anticipation of future land use approvals on the parcel or parcels;
                    (ii) Does not confer any land use approvals; and
                    (iii) Has not been approved by the land use authority;
                    (iv) A parcel boundary adjustment;
                    (v) A lot line adjustment;
                    (vi) A road, street, or highway dedication plat;
                    (vii) A deed or easement for a road, street, or highway purpose; or
                    (viii)        Any other division of land authorized by law.
   68. "Subdivision Amendment" means an amendment to a recorded subdivision in accordance with
       Utah Code Annotated, Section 10-9a-608, that:
       a. Vacates all or a portion of the subdivision;
       b. Alters the outside boundary of the subdivision;
       c. Changes the number of lots within the subdivision;
       d. Alters a public right-of-way, a public easement, or public infrastructure within the
          subdivision; or
       e. Alters a common area or other common amenity within the subdivision.
   69. “Subject Property” means the land area for which an approval is required to comply with this
       Ordinance.

Page 11 of 262
    70. "Substantial improvement" means:
        a. Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or
             exceeds fifty percent of the market value of the structure, either:
             i. Before the improvement or repair is started; or
             ii. If the structure is damaged and is being restored, before the damage occurred.
        b. For the purpose of this definition, "substantial improvement" is considered to occur when
             the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building
             commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
        c. The term does not, however, include either:
             i. Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or local health,
                 sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to assure safe living
                 conditions; or
             ii. Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of Historic Places or a State
                 Inventory of Historic Places.
    71. "Trails" means a system of public recreational pathways located within the municipality for use
        by the public for walking, biking and/or horseback riding as designated.
    72. "Utility Company" means a company regulated by the public service commission that provides a
        service including but not limited to electricity, telephone, or gas.
    73. “Utilities or Improvements” means all types of necessary utilities such as gas lines, culinary and
        secondary water lines, storm drainage systems, sanitary sewer systems, electrical power, cable,
        and telephone with all poles, wires, pipes, and structures as necessary to provide services, and
        surface improvements such sidewalks, curbs, gutters, and streets.
    74. “Vehicle” means a self-propelled device used for transporting persons or things, including, but
        not limited to, automobiles, watercraft, motorcycles, snowmobiles, and recreation vehicles.
        Does not include heavy machinery.
    75. "Vehicle, Commercial" means any motorized vehicle or trailer used for or intended for business
        use - including but not limited to the transportation of commercial equipment, merchandise,
        produce, freight, commodities, passengers, or animals - and which is characterized by any of the
        following:
        a. Heavy equipment, such as earth movers, backhoes, cranes, forklifts, bulldozers, and the like,
             which are commonly used for construction, excavation, demolition, or lifting;
        b. Vehicles used to haul equipment or materials, such as dump trucks, tanker trucks, semi-
             tractors, semi-trailers, cement trucks, or other similar vehicles;
        c. Pickup trucks over one ton with a commercial modification, such as a flat bed, a dumping
             mechanism, mechanical lifts or arms for loading and unloading materials/equipment, aerial
             buckets or platforms, or other similar feature;
        d. Vehicles with more than two axles; or
        e. Vehicles with a payload capacity of more than eight thousand five hundred (8,500) pounds.
19.04.030 – Site Standard Definitions.
A. Site Development terms used in Title 19 are defined as follows:
   1. “Active Recreation” means activities that involve inactive or less energetic activities often
       performed by leisurely walking or conducting small group gatherings that do not require
       physical activity.

Page 12 of 262
   2. “Arterial Street” means a street, existing or proposed, which serves or is intended to serve as a
       major traffic way and which is designated on the UDOT Functional Classification Map as a
       controlled-access highway, limited-access road, major street, parkway or by equivalent terms
       suitable to identify streets comprising the basic structure of the street plan.
   3. “All Weather Surface” means a surface composed of gravel, stone, macadam or other approved
       pervious material, with sufficient depth and compaction to permit vehicular traffic in extremely
       inclement weather.
   4. "Alley" means a public or private way which affords a secondary means of access to abutting
       property.
   5. "Basement" means any floor level below the first story in a building, except that a floor level in a
       building having only one floor level shall be classified as a basement unless such floor level
       qualifies as a first story.
   6. “Base Density” means the original density permitted under the property’s zoning category, in
       dwelling units per acre.
   7. “Buildable Area” means a lot or portion thereof possessing all of the following physical
       characteristics:
       a. The area contains no territory having a slope of thirty percent (30%) or greater;
       b. The area contains no territory which is located in any identified floodplain or within any
           recognized inundation zone, mudflow zone or zone of deformation, or lands subject to earth
           slippage, landslide or rockfall;
       c. The engineering properties of the soil provide adequate structural support for the intended
           use; and
       d. The area does not possess any other recognized natural condition which renders it unsafe
           for building purposes.
   8. "Building" means any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, for the housing or
       enclosure of persons, animals, or chattels.
   9. “Building Alteration” means any act or process that changes the architectural detail, function, or
       structural design of a building, including but not limited to the erection, construction,
       reconstruction, or removal of any building.
   10. “Building Coverage” means the maximum horizontal area within the outer perimeter of the
       building walls, dividers, or columns at ground level or above, whichever is the greater area,
       including, without limitation, courts and exterior stairways, but excluding:
       a. Uncovered decks, porches, patios, terraces, and stairways all less than thirty inches high;
           and
       b. The outer four feet of completely open, uncovered, cantilevered balconies that have a
           minimum of eight feet of vertical clearance below.
   11. “Building Envelope” means the building pad, building footprint, and height restrictions, which
       define the maximum building area in which all development must occur. The building envelop is
       the area that remains for placing a structure on a site after building line, setback, side yard,
       height and bulk regulations are observed.
   12. “Building Facade” means the exterior of a building located above ground and generally visible
       from public points of view.
   13. “Building Footprint” means the total area of the foundation of a structure, or the furthest
       exterior wall or supporting column of the structure. Decks, porches, patios, stairways, terraces,

Page 13 of 262
       planter boxes and balconies that are both uncovered and less than 30’ tall, measured from the
       finished grade are not part of the building footprint.
   14. “Building Height” means the vertical distance above the natural grade at any point on the
       perimeter of the building to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof, or to the deck line of a
       mansard roof, or to a level midway between the level of the eaves and the highest point of
       pitched or hipped roofs, or to a level two-thirds of the distance from the level of the eaves to
       the highest point of gambrel roofs. For purposes of measuring height, the "level of the eaves"
       means the highest level where the plane of the roof intersects the plane of the outside wall on
       any side containing an eave. Buildings may be stepped to accommodate the slope of the terrain
       provided that each step shall be at least twelve feet in horizontal dimension. The height of each
       stepped building segment shall be measured separately.
   15. “Building Street Frontage” means the portion of the building directly fronting or adjacent to the
       street. Building Street Frontage is calculated by dividing the portion of the building at the build-
       to-line or within a specified distance of the build-to-line by the street frontage.
   16. “Build-to-Line” means the maximum distance a building may be setback from a property line or
       other designated location. The purpose of a build-to-line is to bring structures adjacent to
       streets and sidewalks to encourage pedestrian activity.
   17. "Collector Street" means a street which carries traffic from local streets to the Arterial Street
       system, including the principal entrance streets of residence development and the primary
       circulating streets within such a development. A collector street may have prohibited
       movements and the number and spacing of driveways may be controlled.
   18. "Cul-de-sac" means a minor street having one open end and being terminated at the other by a
       vehicular turnaround.
   19. “Dedication” means the setting aside of land by an owner for any public use for the enjoyment
       of the public and owned by a public agency.
   20. “Drive Approach” means an area, construction or facility, in the right of way intended to provide
       access for vehicles from the roadway of a public or private street to private property, including
       the curb radius.
   21. "Entrance" means the location of ingress to a room, building, or lot; a location of admittance.
   22. "Exit" means the location of egress from a room, building, or lot.
   23. “Fence” means any tangible barrier, latticework, screen, wall, hedge, or continuous growth of
       shrubs or trees with the purpose of, or having the effect of, preventing passage or view across
       the fence line.
   24. "Final plat" means a plat map prepared in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance for
       the purpose of subdividing property. A final plat must be based on an accurate survey, and such
       survey marked on the ground so that streets, alleys, blocks, lots, and other divisions thereof can
       be identified.
   25. "Frontage" means the uninterrupted linear or curvilinear extent of a lot, abutting on a street,
       measured along the street right-of-way from the intersection of one side lot line to the
       intersection of the other side lot line. The measurement of lot frontage shall not include
       irregularities in the street line and, in the case of a corner lot, shall extend to the point of
       intersection of the rights-of-way. If a lot has frontage on more than one street, only the frontage
       on one street may be used to satisfy the minimum lot frontage.


Page 14 of 262
   26. “Grade, finished” means the topographic elevations where the earth meets the building, upon
       project completion. Excluded from this definition are window wells serving basement rooms.
       Also referred to as "final grade".
   27. “Grade, natural” means the topographic elevations representing the surface of the ground prior
       to grading, filling, or other site alterations for a project. When natural grade is not readily
       apparent, an approximation of preexisting conditions using grades on adjacent sites, retaining
       walls, prior survey maps, etc., may be used as a reference for determining natural grade. All
       such grade approximations shall require the concurrence of the Director. Also referred to as
       "existing grade".
   28. “Green Space” means open space maintained in a natural, undisturbed, or revegetated
       condition.
   29. “Guarantee” means a bond, escrow or irrevocable letter of credit given by the applicant(a) to
       ensure the proper installation of public infrastructure and improvements.
   30. "Intensity" means the concentration of activity, such as a combination of the number of people,
       cars, visitors, customers, hours of operation, outdoor advertising, etc.; also, the size of buildings
       or structures, the most intense being higher, longer and/or wider.
   31. "Lot" means a parcel of land occupied or proposed to be occupied by a building or buildings,
       together with such yards, open spaces, lot width, and lot areas as are required by this title,
       having frontage upon a street or a right-of-way approved by a land use hearing officer, or upon
       a right-of-way not less than twenty feet wide. Except as provided in this title, not more than one
       dwelling structure shall occupy one lot.
   32. "Lot, Corner" means a lot abutting on two intersecting or intercepting streets, where the interior
       angle of intersection or interception does not exceed one hundred thirty-five degrees.
   33. “Lot, Double Fronting” means a lot having frontage on two (2) streets that are parallel or nearly
       so or do not intersect.
   34. "Lot, Interior" means a lot other than a corner lot.
   35. “Lot Line Adjustment” means the relocation of the property boundary line in a subdivision
       between two adjoining lots with the consent of the owners of record. “Lot line adjustment”
       does not mean a new boundary line that creates an additional lot or constitutes a subdivision or
       a subdivision amendment.
   36. “Lot Line, Front” means the front boundary line of a lot bordering the street.
   37. “Lot Line, Rear” means a lot line that is opposite and most distant from the front lot line. In the
       case of an irregular-shaped lot, the rear lot line shall be that lot line that is generally parallel to
       and at the maximum distance from the front lot line, having a length of at least ten feet (10').
   38. “Lot Line, Side” means any lot boundary line not a front lot line or a rear lot line.
   39. "Lot Width" means the distance between the side lot lines measured at the required front yard
       setback line. For a corner lot, the lot width is the distance between one of the front lot lines and
       the opposite side yard line at the required front yard setback line.
   40. "Main Building" means the principal building or one of the principal buildings upon a lot, or the
       building or one of the principal buildings housing a principal use upon a lot.
   41. "Major Local Street" means a street, existing or proposed, which serves or is intended to serve
       to connect minor local streets with collector streets while also providing direct access to
       property. A major local street has more continuity for through-traffic than a minor local street.


Page 15 of 262
   42. "Marginal Access Street" means a local street, parallel and adjacent to a minor arterial or minor
       collector street providing access to abutting properties and protection from arterial or collector
       streets.
   43. “Off Street Parking” means a site or a portion of a site, devoted to the off-street parking of
       vehicles, including parking spaces, aisles, access drives, and landscaped areas, and providing
       vehicular access to a public street.
   44. "Organic Disposal Site" means a disposal site where settled or precipitated solid matter
       produced by water and sewage treatment processes is disposed of in compliance with the board
       of health requirements, using sanitary land-filling techniques, in a manner that does not create a
       nuisance or health hazard, that protects the environment, and will not cause a pollution source
       of water, air, etc.
   45. “Open Space” means an area of land or water set aside to be preserved or reserved for use by
       residents of the development. An expanse of lawn, trees, plants, or other natural areas. Any
       landscaped area of the site including: required yards, setbacks, walkways, and limited common
       areas. It does not include parking, driveways, or buildings with habitable space for primary uses,
       but may include buildings for the purpose of providing an amenity. Open space may be
       distributed throughout the development and need not be in a single large area. Open space may
       include sensitive areas, such as areas with 30% or greater slope, fault zones, floodplains, high
       water tables, and wetlands if they have been designed as an integral element of the project. Any
       additional amenity that is located on the roof of a building shall not be considered open space.
   46. "Parking Lot" means an open area, other than a street, used for parking of more than four
       automobiles and available for public use, whether free, for compensation, or as an
       accommodation for clients or customers.
   47. "Parking Space" means space within a building, lot, or parking lot for the parking or storage of
       one automobile.
   48. “Passive Recreation” means activities that involve inactive or less energetic activities often
       performed by leisurely walking or conducting small group gatherings that do not require
       physical activity.
   49. “Pavilion” means an open building, with no walls, used for temporary shelter from elements,
       may have tables or benches associated with it.
   50. "Preliminary Approval" means an approval, with or without recommended alterations, given to
       a preliminary plat by the planning commission and provides the necessary authority to proceed
       with the preparation and presentation of the final plat.
   51. "Preliminary Plat" means a map or plan of a proposed land division or subdivision. A drawing
       that shows the perimeter boundary, topography, lot layout arrangement, street layout, and
       other features of a proposed subdivision, as specified for a Preliminary Plat in the Ordinance.
   52. “Public Utility Easement” An area on a recorded plat map or other recorded document that is
       dedicated to the use and installation of public utility lines, mains, services, and minor facilities.
   53. “Setback” means a distance from a curb, property line, or structure within which building is
       prohibited.
   54. “Side Yard, Corner Lot” means a side lot line that abuts a street.
   55. “Side Yard, Interior Lot” means a side lot line that abuts a side or rear lot line of another lot.
   56. “Stall, Horse” means a division of a stable, a compartment for a horse for shelter for reasons
       pertinent to the health, welfare, and daily care of each animal.

Page 16 of 262
   57. “Stealth Design” means the use of alternative support structures to blend or hide the
       communication equipment with the design, shape, or color of the structure. Examples of stealth
       design include field lights, clock towers, bell towers, water towers, flagpoles, windmills,
       monuments, etc.
   58. "Story" means that portion of a building included between the upper surface of any floor and
       the upper surface of the floor next above, except that the topmost story shall be that portion of
       a building included between the upper surface of the topmost floor and the ceiling or roof
       above. If the finished floor level directly above a usable or unused underfloor space is more than
       six feet above grade for more than fifty percent of the total perimeter or is more than twelve
       feet above grade at any point, such usable or unused underfloor space shall be considered as a
       story.
   59. "Story, First" means the lowest story in a building that qualifies as a story, except that a floor
       level in a building having only one floor level shall be classified as a first story, provided such
       floor level is not more than four feet below grade for more than fifty percent of the total
       perimeter, or not more than eight feet below grade at any point.
   60. "Story, Half" means a story with at least two of its opposite sides situated in a sloping roof, the
       floor area of which does not exceed two-thirds of the floor immediately below it.
   61. "Yard" means a space on a lot, other than a court, unoccupied and unobstructed from the
       ground upward by buildings or structures, except as provided herein.
   62. "Yard, Front" means a space on the same lot with a building, between the front line of the
       building and the front lot line, and extending across the full width of the lot. The "depth" of the
       front yard is the minimum distance between the front lot line and the front line of the building.
   63. "Yard, Rear" means a space on the same lot with a building, between the rear line of the
       building and the rear lot line, and extending the full width of the lot. The "depth" of the rear
       yard is the minimum distance between the rear lot line and the rear line of the building.
   64. “Yard, Required” means the open space around buildings which is required by the terms of this
       title.
   65. "Yard, Side" means a space on the same lot with a building, between the side line of the building
       and the side lot line, and extending from the front yard to the rear yard. The "width" of the side
       yard shall be the minimum distance between the side lot line and the side lotline of the building.
       See “Side Yard, Interior Lot” and “Side Yard, Corner Lot”.
19.04.040 – Telecommunications Definitions.
A. Telecommunications terms used in Title 19 are defined as follows:
   1. “Amateur Radio Antenna” means a radio antenna that complies with the ruling of the Federal
       Communications Commission in "Amateur Radio Preemption, 101 FCC 2nd 952 (1985)" or meets
       the standards related to amateur radio service adopted under 47 C.F.R. Part 97.
   2. “Amateur Radio Antenna Support Structure” means a lattice or pole structure which acts as a
       support to the amateur radio antenna. Typical support structures are triangular or square in
       cross-section, crank up, or guyed, and are constructed with galvanized steel or aluminum.
   3. “Antenna” means a transducer, attached to a support structure, designed to transmit or receive
       electromagnetic waves.
   4. "Distribution system" means the portion of the system located between: (1) the service drop
       transformer and the distribution substation for electric service, (2) the service drop and the

Page 17 of 262
       receive site (headend) for cable television, or (3) the service drop and the transmission system
       for telephone service.
   5. “Earth Station” means a communication facility that transmits and/or receives signals to and
       from orbiting satellite(s).
   6. “Lattice Tower” means a support structure constructed of vertical metal struts and cross braces
       forming a triangular or square structure that often tapers from the foundation to the top.
   7. "Service Drop" means the portion of the system located between the distribution system and
       wall of the building or structure occupied or intended to be occupied by a customer.
   8. "System" means all poles, towers, wires, lines, cables, conduits, pipes and accessory equipment
       providing service such as electricity, telephone, telegraph, cable television, gas, water, sewer,
       steam or petroleum including service drops, distribution system, transmission system, and
       accessory equipment.
   9. “Telecommunication Facilities, Wireless Communication Facilities, and Radio/TV Transmitting
       Towers” means facilities used for the transmission or reception of electromagnetic or electro-
       optic information, which is placed on a structure. Telecommunications Sites/Facilities do not
       include Amateur Radio equipment that complies with the ruling of the Federal Communications
       Commission in “Amateur Radio Preemption, 101 FCC 2nd 952 (1985)” or amateur radio service
       adopted under 47 C.F.R. Part 97.
   10. "Transmission System" means the portion of the system which is used to carry the service from
       points of generation or switching centers to distribution points such as electrical substations and
       equipment sites. In the case of electrical service, a transmission system is defined as carrying a
       voltage of forty-six KV or more.
   11. “Wireless Facility” means equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless communication
       between user equipment and a communications network, including (a) equipment associated
       with wireless communication; and (ii) regardless of the technological configuration, a radio
       transceiver, an antenna, a coaxial or fiber-optic cable, a regular or back up power supply, or
       comparable equipment. Wireless Facility does not include the structure or an improvement on,
       under, or within which the equipment is collocated; or a coaxial or fiber-optic cable that is:
       between wireless structures or utility poles; not immediately adjacent to or directly associated
       with a particular antenna; or a wireline backhaul facility. (Utah Code 54-21-§101)
   12. “Wireless Telecommunications Antenna” means the physical device through which
       electromagnetic, wireless telecommunications signals authorized by the Federal
       Communications Commission are transmitted or received. Antennas used by amateur radio
       operators are excluded from this definition.
   13. “Wireless Telecommunications Equipment Shelter” means the structure in which the electronic
       receiving and relay equipment for a wireless telecommunications facility is housed.
   14. “Wireless Telecommunications Site/Facility” means an unmanned structure that consists of
       equipment used primarily for the transmission, reception, or transfer of voice or data through
       radio wave or wireless transmissions. Such sites typically require the construction of
       transmission support structures to which antenna equipment is attached.
   15. “Wireless Telecommunications Tower” means a facility consisting of the equipment and
       structures involved in receiving telecommunications or radio signals from a mobile radio
       communications source and transmitting those signals to a central switching computer that
       connects the mobile unit with the land-based telephone lines.

Page 18 of 262
19.04.050 – Landscaping Definitions.
A. Landscaping terminology used in Title 19 is defined as follows:
   1. “Active Recreation Area” means an area that is dedicated to active play where turf grass may be
       used as the playing surface. Examples of active recreation areas include sports fields, play areas,
       and other similar uses.
   2. “Bubbler” means an irrigation head that delivers water to the root zone by “flooding” the
       planted area, usually measured in gallons per minute. Bubblers exhibit a trickle, umbrella or
       short stream pattern.
   3. “Check Valve” means a device used in sprinkler heads or pipe to prevent water from draining
       out of the pipe through gravity flow.
   4. “Controller” means a device used in irrigation systems to automatically control when and how
       long sprinklers or drip systems operate.
   5. “Drip Emitter” means drip irrigation fittings that deliver water slowly at the root zone of the
       plant, usually measured in gallons per hour.
   6. “Grading Plan” means a plan that shows all finish grades, spot elevations, drainage as necessary
       and existing and new contours with the developed landscaped area.
   7. “Ground Cover” means material planted in such a way as to form a continuous cover over the
       ground that can be maintained at a height not more than twelve (12) inches.
   8. “Hardscape” means patios, decks and paths. Does not include driveways and sidewalks.
   9. Irrigation Plan” means a plan showing the components of the irrigation system with water meter
       size, backflow prevention, precipitation rates, flow rate and operating pressure for each
       irrigation circuit, and identification of all irrigation equipment.
   10. “Landscape Architect” means a person who holds a professional license to practice landscape
       architecture in the state of Utah. Per State Code, licensed landscape architects, licensed
       architects, licensed land surveyors, and licensed engineers can professionally stamp plans that
       fall under the practice of landscape architecture. This includes commercial landscape and
       irrigation plans. Each municipality has the authority to require that only a licensed landscape
       architect can stamp plans that fall under the practice of landscape architecture.
   11. “Landscape Designer” means a person who may or may not hold professional certificates for
       landscape design/architecture and cannot legally create commercial landscape plans. Landscape
       Designers generally focus on residential design and horticultural needs of home landscapes.
   12. “Landscape Documentation Package” means the preparation of a graphic and written criteria,
       specifications, and detailed plans to arrange and modify the effects of natural features such as
       plantings, ground and water forms, circulation, walks and other features to comply with the
       provisions of this ordinance. The Landscape Documentation Package shall include a project data
       sheet, a Site Plan, a Planting Plan, an Irrigation Plan, Construction Details, and a Grading Plan.
   13. “Landscaping Improvement” means landscaping that an applicant is required to install to comply
       with published installation and inspection specifications for public improvements that:
       a. Will be dedicated to and maintained by the municipality; or
       b. Are associated with and proximate to trail improvements that connected to planned ot
            existing public infrastructure.
   14. “Landscape Zone” means a portion of the landscaped area having plants with similar water
       needs, areas with similar microclimate (i.e., slope, exposure, wind, etc.) and soil conditions, and


Page 19 of 262
        areas that will be similarly irrigated. A landscape zone can be served by one irrigation valve, or a
        set of valves with the same schedule.
    15. “Landscaping” means any combination of living plants, such as trees, shrubs, vines, ground
        covers, annuals, perennials, ornamental grass, or seeding; natural features such as rock, stone,
        or bark chips; and structural features, including but not limited to, fountains, reflecting pools,
        outdoor art work, screen walls, fences or benches.
    16. “Localscapes” means a locally adaptable and environmentally sustainable urban landscape style
        that requires less irrigation than traditional Utah landscapes (see www.Localscapes.com).
    17. “Mulch” means any material such as rock, bark, wood chips or other materials left loose and
        applied to the soil.
    18. “Park Strip” means a typically narrow landscaped area located between the back-of-curb and
        sidewalk.
    19. “Planting Plan” means a plan that clearly and accurately identifies the type, size, and locations
        for new and existing trees, shrubs, planting beds, ground covers, turf areas, driveways,
        sidewalks, hardscape features, and fences.
    20. “Pop-up Spray Head” means a sprinkler head that sprays water through a nozzle in a fixed
        pattern with no rotation.
    21. “Precipitation Rate” means the depth of water applied to a given area, usually measured in
        inches per hour.
    22. “Pressure Regulating Valve” means a valve installed in an irrigation mainline that reduces a
        higher supply pressure at the inlet down to a regulated lower pressure at the outlet.
    23. “Pressure Compensating” means a drip irrigation system that compensates for fluctuating water
        pressure by only allowing a fixed volume of water through drip emitters.
    24. “Rotor Spray Head” means a sprinkler head that distributes water through a nozzle by the
        rotation of a gear or mechanical rotor.
    25. “Runoff” means irrigation water that is not absorbed by the soil or landscape area to which it is
        applied, and which flows onto other areas.
    26. “Spray Sprinkler” means an irrigation head that sprays water through a nozzle.
    27. “Stream Sprinkler” means an irrigation head that projects water through a gear rotor in single or
        multiple streams.
    28. “Turf” means a surface layer of earth containing mowed grass with its roots.
    29. “Water-Conserving Plant” means a plant that can generally survive with available rainfall once
        established although supplemental irrigation may be needed or desirable during spring and
        summer months.
    29.30.       “Weed(s)” means any vegetation commonly referred to as a weed, or which has been
        designated a noxious weed by the Utah Department of Agriculture and Food. Weeds also refer
        to areas of lawn or landscaping that have grown to the point of seeding.
19.04.060 – Sign Definitions.
A. Sign terminology used in Title 19 is defined as follows:
   1. “Address Sign” means a sign that designates the street number and/or street name for
       identification purposes, as designated by the United States Postal Service.




Page 20 of 262
   2. “Awning” means a shelter extending from the exterior wall of a building and composed of
       nonrigid materials, including cloth, plastic, or other nonrigid materials, except for the supporting
       framework.
   3. “Awning Sign” means any sign painted on, attached to, or supported by an awning.
   4. “Balloon Sign” means a sign that is an air-inflated object, which may be of various shapes, made
       of flexible fabric, resting on the ground or a structure, and equipped with a portable blower
       motor that provides a constant flow of air into the device.
   5. “Banner” means a temporary sign composed of cloth, canvas, plastic, fabric or similar
       lightweight, non-rigid material that can be mounted to a structure with cord, rope, cable, or a
       similar method, or that may be supported by stakes in the ground. Banners do not include flags.
   6. “Billboard” means a freestanding ground sign located on industrial, commercial, or residential
       property if the sign is designed or intended to direct attention to a business, product, or service
       that is not sold, offered, or existing on the property where the sign is located (as defined in Utah
       State Code 10-9a-103).
   7. “Blade Sign” means the same as “Sign, projecting”.
   8. “Canopy” means a freestanding, permanent roof-like shelter, other than an awning, that may be
       either freestanding or attached to an adjacent building or structure.
   9. “Canopy Sign” means a permanent sign attached to or constructed on a canopy.
   10. “Drive-Thru Facility Sign” means a freestanding sign that is located along the path or aisle
       utilized for a drive-through facility.
   11. “Driveway Sign” means a small permanent sign located near driveway access points and/or at
       the intersection of internal access drives.
   12. “Electronic Message Center” means a sign designed so that the characters, letters, or
       illustrations can be changed or rearranged automatically on a lamp bank or through mechanical
       means (e.g., electronic or digital signs).
   13. “Flag” means any sign printed or painted on cloth, plastic, canvas, or other like material with
       distinctive colors, patterns, or symbols attached to a pole or staff and anchored along only one
       edge or supported or anchored at only two corners. Flags do not include banner.
   14. “Flat Sign” means the same as “Wall Sign”.
   15. “Holiday Decorations” means signs or displays including lighting which are a non-permanent
       installations timed around national, state, and local holidays, religious or cultural holidays, or
       other holiday seasons.
   16. “Illegal Sign” means a sign that is not permitted or allowed to be established in a zone, does not
       meet the requirements of the zoning ordinance, and/or has not received nonconforming status.
       Any sign not specifically listed as a permitted or conditional use is prohibited in that zone.
   17. “Incidental Sign” means signs that are often attached to doors, windows, gas pumps, or other
       structures that are small in nature and typically intended to be read by a user up close, rather
       than from a distance by pedestrians or drivers.
   18. “Light Pole Banner” means a temporary banner or sign that is designed to be attached to a
       permanent light pole or other pole structure, and where the temporary sign element can be
       changed without modifying the permanent structure.
   19. “Limited Duration Sign” means a non-permanent sign that is displayed on private property for
       more than 30 days, but not intended to be displayed for an indefinite period.


Page 21 of 262
   20. “Marquee Sign” means a permanent, roof-like canopy with an integral sign that extends from
       part or all of a building face that may or may not project over a public right-of-way.
   21. “Monument Sign” means a sign permanently affixed to the ground at its base, supported
       entirely by a base structure that is flush to the ground, and not mounted on a pole.
   22. “Mural” means a large picture/image (including but not limited to painted art) which is painted,
       constructed, or affixed directly onto a vertical building wall, which may or may not contain text,
       logos, and/ or symbols.
   23. “Permanent Sign” means a sign attached or affixed to a building, structure, or the ground in a
       manner that enables the sign to resist environmental loads, such as wind, and precludes ready
       removal or movement of the sign and whose intended use appears to be indefinite.
   24. “Pole Sign” means a freestanding sign that is permanently supported in a fixed location by a
       structure of one or more poles, posts, uprights, or braces from the ground and not supported by
       a building or a base structure.
   25. “Portable Sign” means a sign designed to be transported or moved and not permanently
       attached to the ground, a building, or other structure.
   26. “Projecting Sign” means a double-sided sign, excluding canopy and awning signs, mounted on a
       building such that the faces of the sign are perpendicular to the building and normal flow of
       traffic. It may also be referred to as a blade sign.
   27. “Roof Sign” means any sign erected upon a roof, parapet, or roof-mounted equipment structure
       and extending above a roof, parapet, or roof-mounted equipment structure of a building or
       structure.
   28. “Sidewalk or Sandwich Board Sign” means a moveable sign not secured or attached to the
       ground or surface upon which it is located that’s supported by its own frame. A common form of
       sidewalk sign may be referred to as a sandwich board sign that has the cross-sectional shape of
       the letter A. Sidewalk signs may also be in a form that has a cross-sectional shape of an upside-
       down letter T.
   29. “Sign” means any words, letters, parts of letters, figures, numerals, phrases, sentences,
       emblems, devices, trade names, or trademarks, by which anything is made known, such as are
       used to designate an individual, a firm, an association, a corporation, a profession, a business, a
       commodity, an event, a gathering, or product, which are visible from any public way. “Sign” also
       includes the sign structure supports, lighting system, and any attachments, ornaments, or other
       features intended to draw the attention of observers.
   30. “Sign Alteration” means a change or rearrangement in the structural part or design of a sign
       whether by extending on a side, by increasing in area or height, or by relocating or changing
       position.
   31. “Sign Area” means the area of a sign that is used for display purposes, excluding the minimum
       frame and supports. In computing sign area, only one side of a back-to-back or double-faced
       sign shall be computed when signs are parallel or diverge from a common edge by an angle of
       not more than ten degrees. For signs that do not have a frame or a separate background, the
       sign area shall be computed on the basis of the least rectangle, triangle, or circle large enough to
       frame the display. Sign areas in the shape of a sphere, prism, cylinder, cone, pyramid, square, or
       other such shape shall be computed as one-half of the total surface area.
   32. “Sign Copy” means the words logos, symbols, or message displayed on a sign.


Page 22 of 262
    33. “Sign Face” means an exterior display surface of a sign including non-structural trim exclusive of
        the supporting structure.
    34. “Sign Height” means the vertical distance above the natural grade at any point on the perimeter
        of the sign to the highest point of the sign structure.
    35. “Sign Maintenance” means the upkeep of signs in a safe, presentable and good condition,
        including the replacement of defective parts, repainting, cleaning, and other acts required for
        the maintenance of said sign.
    36. “Sign Setback” means the minimum distance that any portion of a sign or sign structure shall be
        from any street property line.
    37. “Sign Structure” means anything constructed or erected supporting a sign which requires
        location on or below the ground or attached to something having a location on or below the
        ground.
    38. “Snipe Sign” means a temporary sign illegally tacked, nailed, posted, pasted, glued, or otherwise
        attached to trees, poles, stakes, fences, or other objects.
    39. “Temporary Sign” means a type of non-permanent, sign that is located on private property that
        can be displayed for no more than 30 consecutive days at one time.
    40. “Vehicle Sign” means a sign or advertising device attached to or located on a vehicle or trailer
        parked on a public right-of-way, public property, or parking area with access by the general
        public so as to be visible from a public right-of-way for the basic purpose of directing people to a
        business or activity.
    41. “Wall Sign” means a building-mounted sign that is either painted on, attached to, or displayed
        on a wall or its facing in a manner parallel to the wall surface.
    42. “Window Sign” means any sign viewable through and/or affixed in any manner to a window or
        exterior glass door such that it is intended to be viewable from the exterior (beyond the
        sidewalk immediately adjacent to the window), including signs located inside a building but
        visible primarily from the outside of the building. Customary displays of merchandise behind a
        store window are not considered signs.
19.04.070 – Use Definitions.
A. Uses identified in Title 19 are defined as follows:
   1. "Accessory Equipment" means the portion of the system including equipment sites,
      transformers, switchgear, pedestals, terminals, meters, buildings (substations), and other similar
      equipment that is normally installed aboveground in accordance with accepted practices of
      underground systems.
   2. “Accessory Structure” means a detached subordinate building or structure the appropriate use
      of which is subordinate and customarily incidental to the main building or to the main use of the
      land and which is located on the same lot or parcel of land with the main building or use.
      Accessory Structures include detached garages or carports, garden or storage sheds, and
      children's playhouses, but do not involve the conduct of a business.
   3. “Accessory Dwelling Unit, Attached” means a habitable living unit attached to a primary single-
      family dwelling and contained on one lot for the purpose of offering a long-term rental of 30
      consecutive days or longer. An “Accessory Dwelling Unit, Attached” may include an addition to
      the footprint of the primary dwelling.



Page 23 of 262
   4. “Accessory Dwelling Unit, Detached” means a habitable living unit detached from a primary
       single-family dwelling and contained on one lot for the purpose of offering a long-term rental of
       30 consecutive days or longer.
   5. “Accessory Dwelling Unit, Internal” means an accessory dwelling unit created:
       a. Within a primary dwelling:
       b. Within the footprint of the primary dwelling at the time the internal accessory dwelling unit
           (IADU) was created; and
       c. For the purpose of offering a long-term rental of 30 consecutive days or longer.
   6. “Accessory Outside Storage” means the accessory location of any goods, wares, merchandise,
       commodities, or any other item outside of a completely enclosed building for a continuous
       period longer than twenty-four (24) hours. The area used for outdoor storage shall not
       constitute more than fifteen percent (15%) of the lot area. With the exception of retail sales
       displays in an approved commercial area, outdoor storage shall be screened from public view by
       a minimum six-foot (6') high opaque fence or, when outdoor storage occurs in a front yard, side
       yard, or any other location within the public view, a fence or screening of a height and material
       determined by the Planning Commission. The presence of hazardous materials, junk, junk cars,
       or debris not usually appurtenant to permitted on-site uses is prohibited. "Outdoor storage" as
       defined herein does not include construction yards, storage yards, or other storage uses where
       the storage of items outside of an enclosed building is a primary characteristic of the use. See
       the definition of "storage yard."
   7. “Accessory Use” means a use clearly incidental and subordinate to the existing primary use and
       customarily related to the primary use and located on the same lot or in the same building as
       the primary use.
   8. “Agricultural Building” means a structure that is primarily associated with and supports
       agricultural use or activity but shall not be used for human occupancy and complying with the
       requirements of Utah Code, as amended. To qualify as an agricultural building the structure shall
       meet all requirements of Utah Code, as amended, and be clearly associated with and necessary
       to support an agricultural use or activity.
   9. “Agricultural Products Processing” means the processing of non-animal agricultural products
       including but not limited to the processing, cleaning, sorting, grading, packaging, or milling of
       products intended for human or animal consumption or use.
   10. “Agricultural Sales” means the retail or wholesale sale of agricultural or horticultural products
       grown or raised on site and not produced or purchased from another location for resale. This
       use does not include the commercial slaughtering, processing, packaging, or sale of meat,
       poultry and dairy, concentrated animal feeding operation, or similar uses.
   11. "Agriculture" means the tilling of the soil, the raising and harvesting of crops, horticulture and
       gardening, but not including the keeping or raising of domestic animals or fowl, except
       household pets, and not including any agricultural industry or business such as fruit-packing
       plants, fur farms, animal hospitals or similar uses.
   12. “Agritourism” means a commercial enterprise linking agricultural production and/or processing
       with tourism in order to attract visitors onto a farm, ranch, or other agricultural business for the
       purposes of entertaining and/or educating the visitors and generating income for the farm,
       ranch, or business owner. This excludes guest ranches and other forms of overnight
       accommodation.

Page 24 of 262
   13. “Airport/Heliport” means an area used for the landing and takeoff of both fixed-wing aircraft
       and helicopters and buildings, structures, or other facilities associated with these activities,
       including taxiways, aircraft storage and tie-down areas, hangars, servicing, and passenger and
       freight terminals and used by commercial, private, or military aircraft.
   14. “Animal Control or Rescue Facility” means a location, with buildings, structures, and holding
       facilities necessary to provide temporary housing and food for animals (primarily pets or
       companion animals) from abusive homes or homeless situations, rehabilitation (if the animal
       has health or behavior problems, or for treatment if the animal requires veterinary care). This
       may include publicly licensed facilities to detain and/or dispose of stray dogs, cats, and other
       animals.
   15. “Animal Feeding Operation” means a facility that confines, feeds, and maintains domestic
       livestock in either an open or enclosed lot or space for a total of 45 days or more in any 12-
       month period. The area(s) where the livestock are confined does not sustain crops, vegetation,
       forage growth, or post-harvest residues in the normal growing season. An AFO may also be a
       Concentrated Animal Feeding Operation (“CAFO” See CAFO). An AFO may be subject to the
       requirements of the Utah Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (UPDES).
   16. “Animal Hospital or Clinic” means facilities for the diagnosis, treatment and hospitalization of
       domesticated animals in indoor holding facilities but does not include any outdoor holding or
       boarding facilities.
   17. “Animal Hospital or Clinic with Outdoor Holding Facilities” means facilities for the diagnosis,
       treatment, hospitalization, and boarding of animals (including large animals) that may include
       indoor and/or outdoor holding and boarding facilities.
   18. “Apiary” means the assembly of one or more colonies of bees at a single location. For
       regulations regarding the keeping of bees, see Chapter 19.42 of this Title.
   19. “Assembly Use” means a business where finished parts are assembled to develop a final
       product. These uses include computer and electronic assembly, and similar uses, but do not
       include vehicle or manufacturing type uses.
   20. “Assisted Living Facility” means Either a Type I Assisted Living Facility, which is a residential
       facility that supports activities of daily living and social care to two or more residents who
       require protected living arrangements and are sufficiently mobile to exit the facility without the
       assistance of another person. OR A Type II Assisted Living Facility, which is a residential facility
       with a home-like setting that provides an array of coordinated supportive personal and health
       care services available 24 hours per day to residents who have been assessed under Department
       rule to need any of these services.
   21. “Athletic Clubs” means an indoor establishment that provides for aerobic exercises,
       weightlifting, bodybuilding, running, exercise equipment, game courts, swimming facilities,
       saunas, spas, showers, and lockers. See “Recreation Facility, Commercial” and “Recreation
       Facility, Private”.
   22. “Bank” means the same as “Financial Institution.”
   23. “Bar” means a commercial establishment open to the general public which sells and serves
       intoxicating beverages for consumption on the premises, subject to the Utah Alcoholic Beverage
       Control Act.




Page 25 of 262
   24. “Bed and Breakfast” means dwellings in which two (2) or more rooms are rented out by the day,
       offering overnight lodging to travelers, and where one or more meals are provided by the host
       family, the price of which is included in the room rate.
   25. “Breweries and Distilleries in association with a Restaurant” means a business which conducts
       the retail sale of beer or liquor which is brewed or distilled on the premises in compliance with
       applicable state and federal laws. Such establishments may also include restaurants as an
       accessory use.
   26. “Breweries and Distilleries, Industrial” means an industrial use that brews ales, beers, meads,
       and/or similar beverages on site. Industrial breweries and distilleries are engaged predominantly
       in manufacturing and do not include a bar or restaurant. Industrial breweries and distilleries
       may include incidental retail sales when permitted by the Department of Alcoholic Beverage
       Control.
   27. "Boardinghouse" means a building with not more than five guestrooms, where, for
       compensation, meals are provided for at least five but not more than fifteen persons.
   28. “Campground” means a public area designated by a public agency for camping, or a private area
       licensed by the local governing body for camping. And/or any lot or parcel of land upon which
       two or more sites are located, established or maintained for occupancy by recreational vehicles
       for a fee as temporary living quarters for recreation or vacation purposes. This may include
       accessory facilities such as kitchens, pavilions, playgrounds, or storage for recreation equipment.
   29. “Camping” means the use of any tent, trailer, lean-to, teepee, recreational vehicle, or similar
       non-permanent structure or vehicle for temporary living quarters for residential, recreation,
       education, or vacation purposes.
   30. "Canopy" means a roofed structure supported by a building and/or supports extending to the
       ground directly underneath the canopy and providing a protective shield for service-station
       pump islands and walkways.
   31. “Car and Light Truck Wash” means a facility with machine or hand-operated facilities used
       principally for the cleaning, washing, polishing, or waxing of automobiles and light trucks. A car
       and truck wash may be able to accommodate more than one vehicle at a time.
   32. "Carport" means a private garage not completely enclosed by walls or doors. For the purpose of
       this title, a carport shall be subject to all of the regulations prescribed for a private garage.
   33. “Cemetery” means land used or dedicated to the burial of the dead, including crematoriums,
       mausoleums, necessary sales, and maintenance facilities.
   34. “Check Cashing” means cashing a check for consideration or extending a deferred deposit loan
       and shall include any other similar types of businesses licensed by the State pursuant to the
       Check Cashing Registration Act. Check cashing does not include the activities of depository
       institutions or persons who cash a check in a transaction that is incidental to the retail sale of
       goods or services for consideration that does not exceed the greater of one percent of the
       amount of the check or three dollars.
   35. “Child Care” means the provision, day or night, of supplemental parental care, instruction, and
       supervision for a non-related child or children, on a regular basis, and for less than twenty-four
       hours a day. The term does not include babysitting services of a casual, non-recurring nature, or
       in the child’s own home or cooperative, or reciprocative child care by a group of parents in their
       respective domiciles.


Page 26 of 262
   36. “Child Care Center” means a facility, operated by a person qualified and licensed by the State of
       Utah, which provides children with daycare and/or preschool instruction as a commercial
       business and complying with all applicable state standards and licensing and having regularly
       scheduled, ongoing enrollment for direct or indirect compensation that provides childcare for
       less than twenty-four (24) hours per day. Commercial Daycare Facilities excludes the following:
       a. Kindergartens or nursery schools or other daytime programs operated by public or private
            elementary or secondary schools or institutions of higher learning;
       b. Facilities operated in connection with a fitness center, shopping center, or other activity
            where children are cared for temporarily while parents or custodians of the children are
            occupied on the premises or are in the immediate vicinity and readily available; or
       c. Special activities or programs, including athletics, crafts instruction, and similar activities,
            are conducted on a periodic basis by civic, charitable, private, or governmental
            organizations.
   37. “Child Care, Licensed Family” means the provision of childcare for sixteen or fewer children,
       including the provider’s children who are under the age of thirteen, in the home where the
       caregiver resides, in the absence of a child’s parents, for four (4) or more hours but less than
       twenty-four (24) hours, on a regularly scheduled, ongoing basis. A “Child Care, Licensed Family”
       is subject to licensing by the Utah Department of Health and Human Services.
   38. “Child Care, Residential” means the provision of childcare for eight or fewer children, including
       the provider’s children, who are under the age of thirteen, in the home where the caregiver
       resides, in the absence of a child’s parents, for less than twenty-four (24) hours, on a regularly
       scheduled, ongoing basis. A “Child Care, Residential” is subject to licensing by the Utah
       Department of Health and Human Services.
   39. “Church, Synagogue, Mosque, Temple, Cathedral, or Other Religious Buildings” means a
       building, with accessory buildings and uses, where persons regularly assemble for religious
       purposes and related social events and which building, with accessory buildings and uses, is
       maintained and controlled by a religious body organized to sustain religious ceremonies and
       purposes.
   40. “Club” means a building used, occupied, and operated by an organized association of persons
       for social, fraternal, religious, or patriotic purposes, whose activities are confined to the
       members and their guests, but shall not include any organization, group, or association, of which
       the principal activity is to render a service usually and ordinarily carried on as a business. A club
       may also be a bar, subject to the Utah Alcoholic Beverage Control Act.
   41. “Cluster Subdivision” means a subdivision in which the lot sizes are reduced below those
       normally required in the zoning district in which the development is located, in return for the
       provision of permanent open space.
   42. “Commercial Plant Nursery” means a business where young plants or trees are raised for
       experimental horticultural purposes, for transplanting, or for sale.
   43. "Commercial Recreation" means recreational facilities operated as a business and open to the
       general public for a fee, such as golf driving ranges and baseball batting ranges.
   44. “Community Garden” means the production of a harvestable product, planted, grown, and
       cultivated in the soil by an identifiable group of community members. Includes products grown
       and managed by a community or neighborhood organization for local consumption or sale.


Page 27 of 262
   45. “Concentrated Animal Feeding Operation” means an Animal Feeding Operation (AFO) is a
       “Concentrated Animal Feeding Operation” (“CAFO”) if it meets the regulatory definition of CAFO
       or if it is designated as a CAFO by the State of Utah. A CAFO is defined in 40 CFR 122.23
       Appendix B as “an animal feeding operation where more than 1,000 ‘animal units’ (as defined by
       the regulation) are confined at the location; or more than 300 animal units are confined at the
       facility and either one of the following conditions are met: pollutants are discharged into
       navigable waters through a man-made ditch, flushing system or other similar man-made
       devices; or pollutants are discharged directly into waters of the United States which originate
       outside of and pass over, across, or through the facility or otherwise come into direct contact
       with the animals confined in the operation.” (“Animal unit” means a unit of measurement for
       any animal feeding operation calculated as per the Utah Administrative Code (UAC) R317-8-3.5
       and used to determine if an operation meets the definition of a concentrated animal feeding
       operation). A CAFO is subject to the requirements of the Utah Pollutant Discharge Elimination
       System (UPDES).
   46. “Contractor’s Office” means A facility providing building construction and maintenance,
       including carpentry, plumbing, roofing, electrical, air conditioning, and heating, within a fully
       enclosed building, and that may include the open storage of associated building materials,
       equipment, or vehicles.
   47. “Contractor’s Storage Yard” means the same as “Storage Yard”.
   48. "Corral" means a space, other than a building, less than one acre in area or less than one
       hundred feet in width, used for the confinement of animals.
   49. “Correctional Facility” means any facility operated by or contracting with the Department of
       Corrections to house offenders in either a secure or non-secure setting; which includes any
       facility operated by a municipality or a county to house or detain criminal offenders, any
       juvenile detention facility, and any building or grounds appurtenant to the facility or lands
       granted to the state, municipality, or county for use as a correctional facility.
   50. "Court" means an occupied space on a lot, other than a yard, designed to be partially
       surrounded by group dwellings.
   51. “Crematorium” means a building that contains cremation chambers and a holding facility for
       human or pet remains, and which may receive remains from funeral establishments.
   52. "Critical infrastructure materials" means sand, gravel, or rock aggregate.
   53. "Critical Infrastructure Materials Operations" means the extraction, excavation, processing, or
       reprocessing of critical infrastructure materials.
   54. "Critical Infrastructure Materials Operator" means a natural person, corporation, association,
       partnership, receiver, trustee, executor, administrator, guardian, fiduciary, agent, or other
       organization or representative, either public or private, including a successor, assign, affiliate,
       subsidiary, and related parent company, that:
       a. Owns, controls, or manages a critical infrastructure materials operations; and
       b. Has produced commercial quantities of critical infrastructure materials from the critical
            infrastructure materials operations.
   55. "Dairy" means a commercial establishment for the manufacture or processing of dairy products.
   56. “Drive-Thru and Drive-Up Facilities” means an establishment designed or operated to provide
       drive-through or drive-up service to patrons remaining in vehicles. May include other forms of
       service, such as conventional seating.

Page 28 of 262
   57. “Duplex” means the same as “Dwelling, Two Family.”
   58. “Dwelling, Manufactured Home” means a transportable factory-built housing unit constructed
       on or after June 15, 1976, according to the HUD Code, in one or more sections, that: (a) in the
       traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length, or when
       erected on site, is 400 or more square feet; and (b) is built on a permanent chassis and designed
       to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the
       required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems. A
       manufactured home shall be attached to a permanent foundation in accordance with plans
       providing for vertical loads, uplift, lateral forces, and frost protection in compliance with the
       City’s Building Code, as adopted. All appendages, including carports, garages, storage buildings,
       additions, or alterations shall be built in compliance with the City’s Building Code, as adopted.
   59. “Dwelling, Mobile Home” means a transportable factory-built housing unit built prior to June 15,
       1976, in accordance with a state mobile home code that existed prior to the HUD Code. HUD
       Code means the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act, 42
       U.S.C. Sec. 5401 et seq.
   60. “Dwelling, Modular Unit” means a structure: (a) built from sections that are manufactured in
       accordance with the State Construction Code and transported to a building site; and (b) the
       purpose of which is for human habitation, occupancy, or use
   61. “Dwelling, Multiple Family” means a building containing five (5) or more residential dwelling
       units.
   62. “Dwelling, Single-Family” means a building containing one (1) residential dwelling unit.
   63. “Dwelling, Single-Family Attached” A residential structure designed to house a single-family unit
       from the lowest level to roof, with a private outside entrance, but not necessarily occupying a
       private lot, and sharing a common wall adjoining dwelling units.
   64. “Dwelling, Three- and Four-Family (3-plex and 4-plex)” means a building containing three (3) or
       four (4) residential dwelling units, each unit designed to be occupied by one (1) family.
   65. “Dwelling, Two Family” means a building containing two (2) residential dwelling units.
   66. “Dwelling group” means a group of two or more dwellings located on a parcel of land in one
       ownership and having any yard or court in common.
   67. “Educational Facility” means: (i) a school district's building at which pupils assemble to receive
       instruction in a program for any combination of grades from preschool through grade 12,
       including kindergarten and programs for children with disabilities; (ii) a structure or facility: (A)
       located on the same property as a building described in Subsection (12)(a)(i); and (B) used in
       support of the use of that building; and (iii) a building to provide office and related space to a
       school district's administrative personnel; and (b) does not include: (i) land or a structure,
       including land or a structure for inventory storage, equipment storage, food processing or
       preparing, vehicle storage or maintenance, or similar use that is: (A) not located on the same
       property as a building described in Subsection (12)(a)(i); and (B) used in support of the purposes
       of a building described in Subsection (12)(a)(i); or (ii) a therapeutic school.
   68. “Educational Facility with Residential Accommodation” means an educational facility with living
       accommodations for students or staff, such as universities, colleges, boarding schools, and
       seminaries. Educational facility includes public and private schools (PreK-12) designed for
       educational activities with a curriculum for technical or vocational training, pre-kindergarten,
       kindergarten, elementary, secondary, or higher education and recognized as an educational

Page 29 of 262
       institution by the State of Utah Board of Education, the State of Utah Board of Higher Education,
       or the State Board of Regents.
   69. "Family food production" means the keeping of not more than two cows, two sheep, two goats,
       twenty rabbits, fifty chickens, fifty pheasants, ten ducks, ten turkeys, ten geese, and twenty
       pigeons; provided that not more than three of the above-listed kinds of animals and fowl are
       permitted at any one time on any lot in zones where family food production may be a permitted
       or conditional use.
   70. “Farm Products" means fruits, vegetables, mushrooms, herbs, nuts, shell eggs, honey or other
       bee products, flowers, nursery stock, livestock food products (including meat, milk, cheese and
       other dairy products), and fish.
   71. “Farmers’ Market” means an outdoor market open to the public, operated by a governmental
       agency, a nonprofit corporation, or one or more Producers, at which (a) at least [ 75] percent of
       the products sold are Farm Products or Value- Establishing Land Use Protections for Farmers’
       Market 13 added Farm Products and (b) at least [75] percent of the vendors regularly
       participating during the market’s hours of operation are Producers, or family members or
       employees of Producers.
   72. “Financial Institutions” means a trust company, savings bank, industrial bank, savings and loan
       association, building and loan association, commercial bank, credit union, federal association,
       investment company, or other business association—which is chartered under federal or state
       law—solicits, receives, or accepts money or its equivalent on deposit and loans money as a
       regular business. "Financial institutions" does not include "check cashing", "pawn shops" or
       other similar uses.
   73. “Financial Institutions, Nondepository” Establishments that are primarily engaged in short term
       lending, such as title loans, check cashing, deferred deposit loan, or similar type of businesses.
   74. “Fireworks Stand” means a type of temporary use that sells fireworks or explosives defined and
       regulated under state law Fire Prevention and Fireworks Act.
   75. "Food Cart" means a cart:
       a. That is not motorized; and
       b. That a vendor, standing outside the frame of the cart, uses to prepare, sell, or serve food or
            beverages for immediate human consumption.
   76. "Food Truck" means:
       a. A fully encased food service establishment:
       b. On a motor vehicle or on a trailer that a motor vehicle pulls to transport; and
       c. From which a food truck vendor, standing within the frame of the vehicle, prepares, cooks,
            sells, or serves food or beverages for immediate human consumption;
       d. A food cart; or
       e. An ice cream truck.
   77. “Freight Service” means an establishment primarily engaged in undertaking the transportation
       or transferring of goods, merchandise, materials, and commodities of any kind for
       compensation, and which may in turn make use of other transportation establishments in
       effecting delivery.
   78. “Garage, Private” means a detached accessory building or portion of a main building designed
       for the parking or temporary storage of automobiles of the occupants of the premises.


Page 30 of 262
   79. “Gardening for Personal Use” An accessory use that includes the production of fruits,
       vegetables, spices, and other food plants for personal use. Gardening for personal use may
       include a greenhouse or plant nursery subject to accessory structure regulations.
   80. "Guest house" means a separate dwelling structure located on a lot with one or more main
       dwelling structures and used for housing guests or servants, and not rented, leased or sold
       separate from the rental, lease or sale of the main dwelling.
   81. “Guest Ranch” means a vacation resort offering activities (such as horseback riding) typical of
       western ranches; may be associated with a working ranch.
   82. “Home Occupation” means any use or activity conducted entirely within a residential dwelling
       or a legal accessory building or structure that is clearly incidental and secondary to the existing
       residential use and does not change the character of the residence or neighborhood and there is
       no display of any stock and the use complies with the applicable business license requirements.
   83. “Home Preschool” means a preschool program complying with all State standards and licensing
       for non-family members in an occupied dwelling unit, by residents of that dwelling unit, in which
       lessons are provided for not more than ten (10) children for each session of instruction. If there
       are eight or more children, there must be two or more providers present. Sessions shall last for
       not more than four (4) hours and shall not overlap. Individual children may attend only one (1)
       preschool session in any 24-hour period.
   84. “Hospital” means a facility licensed by the Utah Department of Health, providing health services
       primarily for human inpatient or medical or surgical care for the sick or injured, and including
       the related facilities such laboratories, outpatient departments, training facilities, central service
       facilities, and staff offices which are integral parts of the facilities.
   85. “Hotel” means an establishment providing, for a fee, sleeping accommodations and customary
       lodging services, including maid service, the furnishing and upkeep of furniture and bed linens,
       and telephone and desk service. A central kitchen, dining room, accessory shops and services
       catering to the general public can be provided. Additional services, such as restaurants, meeting
       rooms, conference space and recreational facilities are allowed as accessory and subordinate
       uses.
   86. “Household Pet” means animals or fowl customarily permitted in the house and kept for
       company or pleasure, including dogs, cats, canaries, and similar pets.
   87. “Industrial Flex Space” means a one-story building containing a mixture of warehouse, retail,
       office, and light industrial uses, with at least 25% of the net floor area dedicated to office space.
   88. “Institutional Use” means a facility that provides a public service and is operated by a federal,
       state, or local government, public or private utility, public or private school or college, church,
       public agency, or tax-exempt organization.
   89. “Junk” means any worn out, stripped, or discarded materials no longe safely useable for the
       purposes for which they were manufactured, including but not necessarily limited to scrap
       metal, inoperable motor vehicles or recreational vehicles which are inoperable for more than
       sixty (60) days, and parts, construction material, household wastes, including garbage and
       discarded appliances, and yard debris.
   90. “Junkyard” means the same as “Salvage Yard.”
   91. “Kennel, Commercial” means a shelter or place where over three dogs or cats are bred,
       boarded, or trained for monetary gain.


Page 31 of 262
   92. “Kennel, Private” means a shelter for or a place where over three and no more than five dogs
       and cats are bred, boarded, or trained for no monetary gain.
   93. “Laboratory, Medical or Dental” means an establishment providing biological, dental, medical,
       or optometrical laboratory and testing services.
   94. “Laboratory, Research and Development” means facilities for the investigation of natural,
       physical, or social sciences that may include engineering and product development.
   95. “Laundry Cleaning, Automatic Self-Help” means an establishment where one or more machines
       or devices are offered for public use to provide self-service dry-cleaning and/or clothes
       laundering facilities.
   96. “Laundry Cleaning, Drop Off” means an establishment where patrons may drop off items for
       dry-cleaning or laundering—which may occur on or off-site.
   97. “Liquor and/or Wine Store” means a facility for the sale of packaged liquor or wine, located on
       premises owned or leased by the state of Utah and operated by a state employee.
   98. “Machine Shop” means shops where lathes, presses, grinders, shapers, and other wood or metal
       working machines are used—such as blacksmith, tinsmith, welding, and sheet metal plumbing,
       heating, electrical repair, and overhaul shops.
   99. “Major Seasonal Sale” means a type of temporary use offering goods not offered year-round by
       another business on the property or is the only business on the property for the duration the
       use is occurring or occupies land in a designated park and is greater than eight hundred (800)
       square feet.
   100.         “Major Seasonal Use” means a type of temporary use that offers a service or activity not
       offered year-round by another business on the property or is the only business on the property
       for the duration the use is occurring or occupies land in a designated park and is greater than
       eight hundred (800) square feet.
   101.         “Manufacturing, Heavy” means the manufacture or compounding process of raw
       materials. These activities or processes would necessitate the storage of large volumes of highly
       flammable, toxic matter or explosive materials needed for the manufacturing process. These
       activities may involve outdoor operations as part of their manufacturing process.
   102.         “Manufacturing, Light” means an establishment primarily engaged in the production,
       fabrication, processing, or assembly of goods and materials using processes that ordinarily do
       not create noise, smoke, fumes, odors, glare, or health or safety hazards outside of the building
       or lot where such activities take place and are located entirely within a building. Such uses
       include research and development facilities and testing laboratories. These uses do not include
       refineries, rock crushers, incinerators, and similar uses.
   103.         “Meat or Poultry Processing Facility” means a building where live animals are killed and
       processed; and/or a building where meat, poultry, or eggs are cooked, smoked, or otherwise
       processed or packed but does not include a butcher shop.
   104.         “Medical, Urgent Care, and Dental Clinic” means the same as “Office, Medical.”
   105.         “Micromobility Support Infrastructure” means infrastructure, such as docking stations,
       signage, or other small-scale infrastructure, needed to support licensed micromobility systems.
       Micromobility shall mean small, light-weight, and low-speed (less than 30mph) motorized
       vehicles that may be part of a shared-use program.
   106.         “Mining (Subsurface)” means mining by digging or constructing access tunnels, adits,
       ramps, or shafts and excavating directly from the natural mineral deposits exposed.

Page 32 of 262
   107.        “Mining (Surface)” means mining by removing the overburden lying above the natural
      deposits and excavating directly from the natural deposits exposed, or by excavating directly
      from deposits lying exposed in their natural state, and shall include dredge operations
      conducted in or on natural or artificially created waterways.
   108.        “Minor Seasonal Sale” means a type of temporary use offering goods not offered year-
      round by another business on the property, and the total area of the use takes up eight-hundred
      (800) square feet or less.
   109.        “Minor Seasonal Use” means a type of temporary use that offers a service or activity not
      offered year-round by another business on the property and the total area of the use takes up
      eight-hundred (800) square feet or less.
   110.        “Minor Ski Resort Improvements” means construction activities associated with the
      ongoing operation and maintenance of previously approved facilities, ski runs, ski trails, ski lifts,
      and related resort appurtenances, equipment, recreational access corridors, pedestrian or non-
      motorized trails, non-snow related activities, and accessory uses, or vehicular maintenance
      roads constructed or used in connection with the construction, operation, or maintenance of a
      resort.
   111.        “Mobile Home” means a dwelling unit designed to be transported, after fabrication, on
      its own wheels designed and intended for permanent occupancy as an independent dwelling
      unit, upon connection to required utility systems; but which is not constructed in compliance
      with the municipality’s adopted Building, Mechanical, Electrical, and Plumbing Codes or the
      Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards (HUD Code). The term "mobile
      home" shall also include any structure meeting the above description, which is used for an
      office, classroom, laboratory, processing, manufacturing, retail sales, or other such uses.
   112.        “Mobile Home Park” means an area or tract of land used to accommodate two (2) or
      more mobile homes intended to be occupied as residences connected to required utility
      systems.
   113.        “Mobile Store” means a business that is carried out entirely from a motor vehicle or
      thing that is designed to be or is mobile such as hand pushcarts and self-propelled kiosks,
      whereby the entire inventory offered for sale is carried and contained in the motor vehicle or
      thing that is designed to be or is mobile at the time the stock is offered for sale and is delivered
      to the purchaser at the time of sale. This use excludes food trucks/mobile restaurants, as
      defined in this chapter.
   114.        “Model Home/Temporary Sales Offices” means a dwelling unit, unoccupied for
      residential purposes, temporarily used for display purposes as an example of dwelling units
      available or to be available for sale or rental in a particular subdivision or other approved
      residential development. Model Home may also include sales or rental offices for dwellings
      within the development.
   115.        “Mortuary or Funeral Home” means an establishment providing services such as
      preparing the human dead for burial, arranging and managing funerals, and necessary sales.
      Funeral establishments may include funeral chapels, limited caretaker facilities, and limited
      cremation facilities that do not accept remains from other funeral establishments. “Mortuary or
      Funeral Home” does not include crematoriums as a primary use, cemeteries, columbariums, and
      mausoleums.
   116.        “Motel” means the same as “Hotel.”

Page 33 of 262
   117.        “Nursing Home, Convalescent Care Center” means a health care facility, other than a
      general acute or specialty hospital, constructed, licensed, and operated to provide patient living
      accommodations, 24-hour staff availability, and at least two of the following patient services: (a)
      a selection of patient care services, under the direction and supervision of a registered nurse,
      ranging from continuous medical, skilled nursing, psychological, or other professional therapies
      to intermittent health-related or paraprofessional personal care services; (b) a structured,
      supportive social living environment based on a professionally designed and supervised
      treatment plan, oriented to the individual's habilitation or rehabilitation needs; or (c) a
      supervised living environment that provides support, training, or assistance with individual
      activities of daily living.
   118.        “Office, General” means a building offering executive, administrative, professional, or
      clerical services, or a portion of a building wherein services are performed involving
      predominately operations with limited client visits and limited traffic generated by employees
      and/or clients.
   119.        “Office, Intensive” means a business offering executive, administrative, professional, or
      clerical services with a high level of client interaction and traffic generated; and/or a business
      that employs five (5) or more persons per one thousand (1,000) square feet of net leasable
      office space.
   120.        “Office, Medical” means a building used by physicians, dentists, and similar personnel
      for the treatment and examination of patients solely on an outpatient basis, provided that no
      overnight patients shall be kept on the premises.
   121.        “Outdoor Dining” means an area of designated size used as a seating area with tables
      and chairs for the contiguous restaurant.
   122.        “Outdoor Recreation, Large Scale, and including Outdoor Entertainment Locations”
      means areas or facilities that offer recreation or entertainment outside and require significant
      land or are expected to create a larger impact. Such uses include shooting ranges, go-carts,
      motor vehicle and/or motorbike tracks, golf courses, zoological parks and botanical gardens,
      amphitheaters, outdoor stages and concert venues, or similar activities that may create noise,
      dust, or other nuisances to adjoining and surrounding uses.
   123.        “Outdoor Sales Event” means a type of temporary use that uses a portion of outside
      space to temporarily sell products from a business in a building already located on the property
      with a business license.
   124.        “Outdoor Storage” means the same as “Accessory Outside Storage”
   125.        “Package Agency” means a retail liquor location operated under a contractual
      agreement with the Utah Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control, by a person other than the
      State, who is authorized by the commission to sell package liquor for consumption off the
      premises of the agency.
   126.        “Park and Ride” means an area or structure intended to accommodate parked vehicles
      for the general public, where commuters park their vehicles and continue to travel to another
      destination via public transit, carpool, vanpool, or bicycle. The parking lot may be shared with
      other uses or stand-alone.
   127.        “Park, Micro” means a public park with an area less than eight-thousand (8,000) square
      feet.


Page 34 of 262
   128.        “Pawn Shop” means any person, firm, corporation, or business that loans money on
      deposit of personal property, or deals in the purchase, exchange, or possession of personal
      property on condition of selling the same back again to the pledgor or depositor, or loans or
      advances money on personal property by taking chattel mortgage security thereon, and takes or
      receives such personal property.
   129.        “Personal Care Services” means an establishment primarily engaged in the provision of
      frequently or recurrently needed services of a personal nature. Typical uses include beauty and
      barbershops, custom tailoring and seamstress shops, electrolysis studios, portrait studios, shoe
      repair shops, tanning and nail salons, permanent makeup facilities, tattoo and body piercing
      establishments, and weight loss centers.
   130.        “Personal Instruction Services” means an establishment engaged in the provision of
      informational, instructional, personal improvement, and similar services of a professional nature
      or by a nonprofit organization. Typical uses include art and music schools, driving instruction,
      computer instruction, gymnastic and dance studios, handicraft or hobby instruction, and martial
      arts training.
   131.        “Planned Unit Development” means an Integrated design for the development of
      residential, commercial, or industrial uses, or limited combinations of such uses, in which the
      density and location regulations of the district in which the development is situated may be
      varied or waived to allow flexibility and initiative in site and building design and location, in
      accordance with an approved plan and imposed requirements.
   132.131. “Post Office” means a facility that contains service windows for mailing packages and
      letters, post office boxes, offices, vehicle storage areas, and sorting and distribution facilities for
      mail.
   133.132. "Private Nonprofit Locker Club" means a social club, recreational, athletic, or kindred
      association incorporated under the provisions of the Utah Nonprofit Corporation and
      Cooperation Act, which maintains or intends to maintain premises upon which liquor is or will
      be stored, consumed, or sold.
   134.133. "Private Nonprofit Recreational Grounds And Facilities" means nonprofit recreational
      grounds and facilities operated by an association incorporated under the provisions of the Utah
      Nonprofit Corporation and Cooperation Act or a corporate sole.
   135.134. “Private Residential Tennis Court/Sports Court” means a recreation court requiring a
      base surface with a gross square footage of four hundred square feet or more, permitted as an
      accessory use to and on the same lot as a single-family residential dwelling.
   136.135. “Private Swimming Pool” means any structure or container holding water to a depth of
      eighteen inches (18") or greater and having either a diameter or diagonal measurement of ten
      feet (10’) or greater, permitted as an accessory use to and on the same lot as a single-family
      residential dwelling.
   137.136. “Producer” means a person or entity that raises or produces Farm Products on land that
      the person or entity farms and owns, rents, or leases.
   138.137. “Protective Housing” means a facility operated, licensed, or contracted by a
      governmental entity, or operated by a charitable, nonprofit organization, where, for no
      compensation, temporary, protective housing is provided to: (1) Abused or neglected children
      awaiting placement in foster care; (2) Pregnant or parenting teens; (3) Victims of sexual abuse;
      or (4) Victims of domestic abuse.

Page 35 of 262
   139.138. “Public Parks” means parks that are maintained by a public agency.
   140.139. “Public Service Training Facility” means an establishment for training state and local law
      enforcement, fire safety, national guard, transit personnel, or other public service personnel and
      accessory facilities including but not limited to dining and overnight accommodations,
      classrooms, indoor shooting ranges, auto test tracks, and fire suppression simulations.
   141.140. "Public Use" means a use operated exclusively by a public body, or quasi-public body,
      such use having the purpose of serving the public health, safety, or general welfare, and
      including uses such as public schools, parks, playgrounds and other recreational facilities,
      government and public utility administrative offices, fire stations, police stations, and facilities
      that are part of the local service delivery system for public utilities. "Public use" does not include
      public utility production, storage, and treatment facilities such as power plants, refineries,
      natural gas processing and storage plants, water treatment plants, or sewage treatment
      facilities.
   142.141. “Public Utility, Major” means structures that house operations for public utilities like,
      but not limited to, power generation plants, electrical switching stations, primary substations,
      refuse collection and disposal facilities, and water and wastewater treatment facilities and
      similar facilities.
   143.142. “Public Utility, Minor” means local utility structures that are necessary for a specific
      development or service like, but not limited to, poles and lines.
   144.143. “Public Utility” includes every railroad corporation, gas corporation, electrical
      corporation, distribution electrical cooperative, wholesale electrical cooperative, telephone
      corporation, telegraph corporation, water corporation, sewerage corporation, heat corporation,
      and independent energy producer not described in Section 54-2-201 where the service is
      performed for, or the commodity delivered to, the public generally, or in the case of a gas
      corporation or electrical corporation where the gas or electricity is sold or furnished to any
      member or consumers within the state for domestic, commercial, or industrial use.
   145.144. “Rail Transit Mixed-Use” means a use that allows rail-oriented development that
      combines different land uses within a single development, tract of land, building, or structure.
      Its purpose is to encourage development that is high quality, human-scale, and pedestrian-
      friendly, while creating a variety of complementary and integrated uses, such as but not limited
      to, residential, office, manufacturing, retail, public, or entertainment, in a compact, walkable,
      urban form.
   146.145. “Reception Hall, Reception Center” means a room or building for the purpose of hosting
      a party, banquet, wedding, or other reception or social event. Such halls are often found within
      pubs, clubs, hotels, or restaurants.
   147.146. “Recreation Facility, Commercial” means a centrally or otherwise appropriately located
      place designed and equipped for the conduct of sports, informal recreation and/or leisure-time
      activities operated as a business on private or public property and open to the public for a fee.
   148.147. “Recreation Facility, Private” means a centrally or otherwise appropriately located place
      designed and equipped for the conduct of sports, informal recreation and/or leisure-time
      activities operated on private property and not open to the public, including recreation facilities
      owned by a homeowners' or property owners' association for private use.




Page 36 of 262
   149.148. “Recreation Facility, Public” means a centrally or otherwise appropriately located place
      designed and equipped for the conduct of sports, informal recreation and/or leisure-time
      activities operated by a public agency and open to the public with or without a fee.
   150.149. “Recycling Processing Facility” means a building or enclosed space for the collection and
      processing of recyclable materials. “Processing” means the preparation of material for efficient
      shipment, or to an end user’s specifications, by such means as baling, briquetting, compacting,
      flattening, grinding, crushing, shredding, mechanical sorting, cleaning, and re-manufacturing.
   151.150. “Rehabilitation/Treatment Facilities” means a facility licensed by or contracted by the
      State of Utah to provide temporary occupancy and supervision of adults or juveniles in order to
      provide rehabilitation, treatment, or counseling services. Without limitation, such services may
      include rehabilitation, treatment, counseling, or assessment and evaluation services related to
      delinquent behavior, alcohol and drug abuse, sex offenders, sexual abuse, or mental health.
      Associated education services may also be provided to juvenile occupants. Does not include
      residential facilities for the elderly or persons with disabilities.
   152.151. "Resource Recycling Collection Point" means a portable structure, enclosed bin, trailer,
      or reverse vending machine where recyclable material (aluminum cans, glass, paper, etc.) is
      exchanged for money or deposited as a donation.
   153.152. “Reiki” means a business devoted primarily to Reiki healing, or any other system that
      has elements of the following. The practitioner, trained to access and serve as a channel for a
      sacred life force, places his or her hands on or just above the client's body in order to activate
      healing energy within receptive points on the body. The practitioner's hands move progressively
      with a passive touch through various positions on the body, remaining in each position for a
      period of time. As a harmonic flow of energy is strengthened, within the client and practitioner,
      healing occurs through the return of physical, mental, and spiritual balance. For purposes of this
      title, a Reiki business shall not include Reiki healing, or similar system, which are performed in a
      hospital or medical clinic.
   154.153. “Residential Facility for Elderly Persons” means a dwelling unit owned by a resident
      thereof or an immediate family member of a resident, or for which the title has been placed in
      trust for a resident; and is voluntarily occupied on a twenty-four (24) hour per day basis by eight
      (8) or fewer elderly persons in a family-type arrangement. A "residential facility for elderly
      persons" does not include any facility: (1) Operated as a business; provided that such facility
      shall not be considered to be operated as a business solely because a fee is charged for food or
      for actual and necessary costs of operation and maintenance of the facility; (2) Where persons
      are placed: (a) For alcoholism or drug abuse treatment; or (b) As part of, or in lieu of,
      confinement, rehabilitation, or treatment in a correctional facility which is: (i) A health care
      facility as defined by Utah Code or successor law, or (ii) A residential facility for persons with a
      disability.
   155.154. “Residential Facility for Persons with a Disability” means a residence: (1) In which more
      than one person with a disability resides; and (a) Which is licensed or certified by the
      Department of Human Services under Utah Code Title 62A, Chapter 2, Licensure of Programs
      and Facilities; or (b) Which is licensed or certified by the Department of Health under Utah Code
      Title 26, Chapter 21, Health Care Facility Licensing and Inspection Act.
   156.155. “Residential Keeping of Chickens or Ducks or Domestic Fowl” means the keeping of a
      small number of domesticated hens and/or ducks on a lot with a single-family dwelling for

Page 37 of 262
      personal use only, subject to the standards and requirements of this Title, Salt Lake County
      Animal Services, and Salt Lake County Health Department that ensure that domesticated hens
      and ducks do not adversely impact the neighborhood surrounding the property on which the
      domestic fowl are kept.
   157.156. “Resort” means a place offering amenities for recreation and relaxation in addition to
      lodging and meals to transient vacationers. May involve multiple, compatible uses of the land,
      such as open space, agriculture, and lodging.
   158.157. “Restaurant, Fast Food” means a building or facility that sells food and beverages
      primarily over a counter, rather than by waitress or waiter; packages its’ food in wrappers,
      boxes, or cartons regardless if the food is consumed on or off the restaurant premises; and
      typically provides a drive through/drive-up facility.
   159.158. “Restaurant, Sit-Down with or Without Alcohol” means a building or facility for the
      preparation, retail sale, and on-site consumption of food and non-alcoholic and/or alcoholic
      beverages.
   160.159. “Retail and Service Commercial” means a business primarily engaged in the sale or
      rental of goods, merchandise, or services directly to the consumer, and includes no outdoor
      storage. These uses do not include sexually oriented businesses, retail tobacco specialty stores,
      check cashing, pawn shops, vehicle or large equipment rental, sales, repair, or assembly. Uses
      include department, grocery, variety and drug stores; art galleries; bakeries; jewelry stores;
      florists; auto parts stores; business and social services; and similar uses. These uses may include
      twenty-four-hour uses and drive-up windows subject to this title.
   161.160. “Retail Shops or Galleries where Primary Product is Produced On-Site" means
      Establishments (not exceeding 5,000 Sq.Ft.) engaged in the selling of goods where the primary
      product is produced on-site. This definition is limited to small-scale uses but can include
      bakeries, confectionaries, nut shops, frame shops, restored furniture, cardmaking shops,
      jewelry-making stores, photo galleries, art galleries, and pottery studios. This definition also
      includes ‘painting with a twist’, ‘paint nite’, paint-your-own-ceramics businesses, and similar
      uses. A room or building for the display or sale of works of art, including space for the artist to
      create displayed work.
   162.161. “Retail Tobacco Specialty Business” means a commercial establishment in which: (a) the
      sales of tobacco products, electronic cigarette products, and nicotine products account for more
      than 35% of the total quarterly gross receipts for the establishment; (b) 20% or more of the
      public retail floor space is allocated to the offer, display, or storage of tobacco products,
      electronic cigarette products, or nicotine products; (c) 20% or more of the total shelf space is
      allocated to the offer, display, or storage of tobacco products, electronic cigarette products, or
      nicotine products; (d) the commercial establishment holds itself out as a retail tobacco specialty
      business and causes a reasonable person to believe the commercial establishment is a retail
      tobacco specialty business; (e) any flavored electronic cigarette product is sold; or (f) the retail
      space features a self-service display for tobacco products, electronic cigarette products, or
      nicotine products. (Utah Code 10-8-§41.6)
   163.162. “Salvage Yard” means a place where scrap, waste, discarded, or salvaged materials is
      brought, sold, exchanged, baled, packed, disassembled or handled, or stored, including auto
      wrecking yards, house wrecking yards, used lumber yards, and places or yards for storage of
      salvage, house wrecking, and structural steel materials and equipment; but not including such

Page 38 of 262
      places where such uses are conducted entirely within a completely enclosed building or yard,
      and not including pawnshops and establishments for the sale, purchase or storage of used
      furniture and household equipment, used cars in operable condition, or salvaged materials
      incidental to manufacturing operations conducted on the premises.
   164.163. “School, Charter” means (i) an operating charter school; (ii) a charter school applicant
      that has its application approved by a charter school authorizer in accordance with Utah Code,
      Title 53G, Chapter 5, Part 3, Charter School Authorization; or (iii) an entity that is working on
      behalf of a charter school or approved charter applicant to develop or construct a charter school
      building. School, Charter does not include a therapeutic school.
   165.164. “Self-Service Fuel Station” means a location where flammable or combustible liquids or
      gases are stored and dispensed from fixed equipment into the fuel tanks of motor vehicles. Such
      establishment may offer the retail sale of convenience items. “Self-Service Fuel Station”
      specifically excludes and does not allow any servicing, repair or maintenance of motor vehicles,
      trailers, and similar mechanical equipment, including engine, brake, muffler, tire repair,
      lubrication, and engine tune-up. “Self Service Fuel Station” may be combined with “Vehicle and
      Equipment Repair, Minor” when the applicable zone allows both uses. Does not include “Truck
      Stop and Service Facilities.”
   166.165. “Self-Service Storage Facilities, Enclosed” means structures, commonly referred to as
      storage units, containing separate enclosed, individual and private storage spaces of varying
      sizes leased or rented on individual leases for varying periods of time. Such facilities are to be
      used for dead storage only. The following activities are prohibited within any self-storage
      enclosed storage facility: (1) Commercial, wholesale or retail sales, or miscellaneous or garage
      sales. (2) The servicing, repair, or fabrication of motor vehicles, boats, trailers, small engine
      equipment, or similar equipment. (3) The operation of power tools, spray painting equipment,
      compressors, welding equipment, kilns, or similar equipment. (4) The establishment of a
      transfer business. (5) Any use that is noxious or offensive because of odors, dust, noise, or
      vibrations.
   167.166. “Self-Service Storage Facilities, Outdoor” means the use of any lot, portion of a lot, or
      tract of land for outside storage of operative automobiles, trucks, recreational vehicles, boats,
      trailers, or non-motorized storage, containing separate, individual and private storage spaces of
      varying sizes leased or rented on individual leases for varying periods of time. The following
      activities are prohibited within any self-storage outside storage facility: (1) Commercial,
      wholesale or retail sales, or miscellaneous or garage sales. (2) The servicing, repair, or
      fabrication of motor vehicles, boats, trailers, small engine equipment, or similar equipment. (3)
      The establishment of a transfer business. (4) Junkyard or impound yard. (5) Storage of non-
      motorized storage shall not exceed the height of the screened fence. (6) Any use that is noxious
      or offensive because of odors, dust, noise, or vibrations.
   168.167. “Sexually Oriented Business or Activity” means adult arcades, adult bookstores, adult
      novelty stores, adult video stores, adult cabarets, or adult entertainment out-call services in the
      form of semi-nude dancing or exhibitions, adult motion picture theater, adult theater, seminude
      model studios, or sexual encounter establishments.
   169.168. “Shared Mobility Device” means bicycles and motor-assisted scooters operated by a
      shared mobility device system.


Page 39 of 262
   170.169. “Shared Mobility Device System” means any transportation service that involves the
      commercial use of shared mobility devices by users, either concurrently or sequentially after
      one another.
   171.170. “Shopping Center” means a group of three or more commercial establishments that are
      planned, developed, and managed as a unit with common areas for off-street parking and
      landscaping provided on the properties.
   172.171. "Short-Term Rental" means a residential unit or any portion of a residential unit that the
      owner of record or the lessee of the residential unit offers for occupancy for fewer than 30
      consecutive days.
   173.172. “Sidewalk Displays and Sidewalk Cafes” means an accessory use that allows for the
      spillover of seating and/or sales displays onto the sidewalk in front of an existing business.
      Subject to limitations. Sidewalk Café: a restaurant with tables on the sidewalk in front or on the
      side of the premises. Sidewalk Display: the outdoor display of merchandise for sale by a business
      use.
   174.173. “Ski Resort” means a ski area that also includes sales, rentals, and services of related
      equipment and accessories, eating places, residences, and hotels and motels.
   175.174. “Solar Energy System, Accessory” means a roof-mounted, wall mounted, or ground
      mounted panel, the primary purpose of which is to provide for the collection, inversion, storage,
      and distribution of solar energy for electricity generation, space heating, space cooling, or water
      heating of buildings located on the same property.
   176.175. “Solar Energy System, Commercial” means a solar array meant for commercial
      production of energy.
   177.176. “Solar Evaporation Pond for the Processing of Salt” means the recovery of minerals in
      solution through natural evaporation and subsequent harvesting.
   178.177. “Storage – Hazardous Materials” means the storage of any item or chemical which is a
      health or physical hazard, or can cause harm to people, plants, or animals when released by
      spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying, discharging, injecting, escaping, leaching,
      dumping, or disposing into the environment.
   179.178. “Storage Yard” means the location of goods, wares, merchandise, commodities,
      equipment, materials, or any other item outside of a completely enclosed building for a
      continuous period longer than twenty-four (24) hours when such storage is a primary
      characteristic of a permitted use or constitutes more than fifteen percent (15%) of the lot area.
      The presence of hazardous materials, junk, junk cars, or debris not usually appurtenant to
      permitted on-site uses is prohibited. Storage yards shall be screened from public view by a
      minimum six-foot (6') high masonry fence and, when outdoor storage occurs in a front yard, side
      yard, or any other location within the public view, additional screening of a height and material
      determined by the Planning Commission. For the purposes of this title, construction yards,
      lumber yards, and like uses are considered to be storage yards as regulated herein. Compare
      with the definition of "accessory outdoor storage".
   180.179. "Sportsman's Kennel" means a kennel for the keeping of three to five dogs that has a
      valid permit from the department of animal services and is located on a lot of at least one acre.
   181.180. "Stable, Private" means a detached accessory building for the keeping of horses owned
      by the occupants of the premises, and not kept for remuneration, hire, or sale.


Page 40 of 262
   182.181. "Stable, Public" means a structure, either accessory or primary, in which the horses are
      boarded, trained, or rented for commercial purposes. a stable other than a private stable.
   183.182. “Swap Meets And Flea Markets” means a market operating for the sale or exchange of
      merchandise at retail by many sellers within a drive-in theater or enclosed building. This does
      not include garage sales.
   184.183. “Tavern” means the same as “Bar.”
   185.184. “Temporary Construction Office” means a temporary building or structure used as a
      construction office for a project located on the same site during its construction. A temporary
      construction office must be removed from the property prior to the final certificate of
      occupancy being issued on the building or project.
   186.185. “Temporary Sale, Farm Products” means a type of temporary use that is less than six
      hundred square feet and at least seventy five percent (75%) of the products sold are farm
      products or value-added farm products.
   187.186. “Temporary Use” means any use that does not continue more than one hundred twenty
      (120) days out of the year.
   188.187. “Temporary Use, Weekly or Weekly Temporary Use” means any use occurs not more
      than two days a week and not more than one hundred twenty (120) days out of the year.
   189.188. “Temporary Use, Inside” means a use on a property proposed to be established for a
      maximum period of)one hundred and twenty (120) days or use being discontinued after the
      expiration of one hundred and twenty (120) days and conducted in compliance with all the
      requirements of this title that is inside a permanent building.
   190.189. “Theatres and Concert Halls (Indoor)” means buildings that contain screens, stages, or
      other platforms around which patrons gather to experience film, theater, and other
      performances. Concessions may be allowed as an accessory use. Such uses include concert
      halls, play theaters, cinemas, comedy clubs, operas, and orchestra and symphony halls. Does
      not include outdoor theaters and concert halls (see “Outdoor Recreation, Large Scale, and
      including Outdoor Entertainment Locations”).
   191.190. “Therapeutic School” means a residential group living facility: (a) for four or more
      individuals that are not related to the owner of the facility or the primary service provider of the
      facility; (b) that serves students who have a history of failing to function at home, in a public
      school, or in a nonresidential private school; and (c) that offers room and board, and an
      academic education integrated with (i) specialized structure and supervision or (ii) services or
      treatment related to a disability, emotional development, behavioral development, familial
      development, or social development. (Utah Code 62A-2-§101)
   192.191. “Tiny Home” means a dwelling less than 400 square feet in size, not including loft space,
      that meets building code requirements and is on a permanent foundation. A tiny home is either
      a single-family dwelling or an accessory dwelling unit. A tiny home used as the primary
      residential use on a lot or parcel is a single-family dwelling for the purposes of this ordinance. A
      tiny home used as an accessory dwelling is subject to the same restrictions as any other
      accessory dwelling unit.
   193.192. “Towing Services and Impound Lots” means the temporary storage of vehicles that have
      been towed, carried, hauled, or pushed from public to private property for impoundment in a
      public or private impound yard.


Page 41 of 262
   194.193. “Transitional Housing” means a building or facility owned, operated, or contracted by a
      governmental entity or a charitable, nonprofit organization that provide free temporary housing
      to homeless persons for at least thirty (30) days while they obtain work, job skills, or otherwise
      take steps to stabilize their circumstances. Transitional Housing Facilities do not include
      homeless shelters, dwelling units provided to a family for more than 30 days as part of a
      transitional housing program, or residential facilities for elderly persons or persons with
      disabilities.
   195.194. “Transmission Line/Right of Way (Major)” means an electric power, gas, or petroleum
      transmission facility with the required right-of-way designed to provide for the location of
      transmission lines or facilities to operate at voltages of 140,000 volts (140 kV), or greater or
      eight (8) inches in diameter and that provides electrical, gas, or petroleum products
      transmission and found by the City to conform to the General Plan, or has been considered by
      the Commission and Council and a General Plan amendment has been approved.
   196.195. “Transmission Line/Right of Way (Minor)” means an electric power, gas, or petroleum
      transmission facility with the required right-of-way designed to provide for the location of
      transmission lines or facilities to operate at voltages less than 140,000 volts (140 kV) or less than
      eight (8) inches in diameter and that provides electrical, gas, or petroleum products
      transmission and found by the City to conform to the General Plan, or has been considered by
      the Commission and Council and a General Plan amendment has been approved.
   197.196. “Truck Stop and Service Facilities” means facilities intended to provide services to the
      trucking industry, including but not limited to, dispensing of fuel, servicing, repair, automated
      washes, and overnight parking. The facilities may also include overnight accommodations,
      showers, or restaurant facilities primarily for the use of truck crews. Such establishment may
      offer the retail sale of convenience items.
   198.197. “Twin Home” means the same as “Dwelling, Two Family.”
   199.198. "Value-added Farm Products” means any product processed by a Producer from a Farm
      Product.
   200.199. “Vertical Indoor Agriculture” means growing crops in vertically stacked layers indoors,
      often incorporating controlled-environment agricultural techniques and soilless farming
      techniques such as hydroponics, aquaponics, or aeroponics.
   201.200. “Vehicle Assembly” means a business where finished vehicle-related parts are put
      together to develop a final product.
   202.201. “Vehicle and Equipment Repair, Commercial and Industrial” means the repair and
      service of commercial vehicles and trailers with a payload capacity of more than eight thousand
      five hundred (8,500) pounds as well as industrial or other heavy equipment. Typical uses include
      semi-trailer truck repair, and the repair of bulldozers, graders, dump trucks, cement mixers, and
      similar heavy industrial and construction equipment.
   203.202. “Vehicle and Equipment Repair, Major” means an establishment primarily engaged in
      the major repair of motor vehicles or equipment. Typical uses include major auto repair such as
      the removal of engines and transmissions, rebuilding of engines and transmissions, repair of the
      internal components, repair or removal of differentials or axles, body work and paint. "Vehicle
      and Equipment Repair, Major" may also include uses that are often accessory to businesses
      engaged in the repair of vehicles such as offices, part sales, storage of merchandise, and vehicle
      storage when such vehicle storage is fully and adequately screened. "Vehicle and Equipment

Page 42 of 262
      Repair, Major" does not include repair and service of commercial vehicles and trailers with a
      payload capacity of more than eight thousand five hundred (8,500) pounds, industrial or other
      heavy equipment, "vehicle assembly", "manufacturing use", auto dismantling or wrecking,
      salvage, "junkyards", or similar uses.
   204.203. “Vehicle and Equipment Repair, Minor” means an establishment providing motor
      vehicle repair or maintenance services and conducted entirely within completely enclosed
      buildings and may include the retail sale of fuels, lubricants, and other supplies for motor
      vehicles. Typical uses include businesses engaged in the following activities: electronic tune-ups,
      brake repairs (including drum turning), air conditioning repairs, auto detailing, generator and
      starter repairs, muffler and other minor underbody repair, frontend alignments, battery
      recharging, lubrication, and other similar repairs. Vehicle and Equipment Repair (Minor) also
      includes sales, repair and installation of minor parts and accessories such as tires, batteries,
      windshield wipers, hoses, windows, etc. Vehicle and Equipment Repair (Minor) does not include
      paint and body shops, or other activities associated with Vehicle and Equipment Repair (Major),
      auto dismantling or wrecking, salvage, junkyards, and similar uses.
   205.204. “Vehicle Rental” means a business primarily engaged in the rental of vehicles.
   206.205. “Vehicle Sales and Service” means the use of any building, land area, or other premises
      for the display and sale or lease of more than three (3) new or used vehicles, and including
      outside storage of inventory, indoor vehicle part and accessory sales, any warranty repair work,
      and other repair service conducted as an accessory use. “Vehicle Sales and Service” includes the
      sale or lease of new or used boats, cars, light trucks, motorcycles, off-road vehicles, camp
      trailers, recreational vehicles, motor homes, and utility or box trailers with a payload capacity of
      less than eight thousand five hundred (8,500) pounds. “Vehicle Sales and Service” does not
      include the sale or lease of semi-trailer trucks, semi-trailers, or utility or box trailers with a
      payload capacity of over five thousand (5,000) pounds.
   207.206. “Vehicle Sales and Service, Commercial Vehicles and Trailers” means the sale or lease of
      semi-trailer trucks, semi-trailers, or utility or box trailers with a payload capacity of more than
      eight thousand five hundred (8,500) pounds. “Vehicle Sales and Service, Commercial Vehicles
      and Trailers” includes outside storage of inventory, indoor vehicle part and accessory sales, any
      warranty repair work, and other repair services conducted as an accessory use.
   208.207. “Vehicle Sales, Small Dealership” means a business specializing in the sale of a limited
      number of new and/or used vehicles, with no more than three (3) vehicles displayed outside at
      any one time and with no more than a total of eight (8) vehicles stored on-site at any given time
      and licensed as required by the State of Utah. A small dealership may be permitted as an
      accessory use to a related business on the same property and under the same ownership.
   209.208. "Vested Critical Infrastructure Materials Operations" means critical infrastructure
      materials operations operating in accordance with a legal nonconforming use or a permit issued
      by the municipality that existed or was conducted or otherwise engaged in before:
      a. A political subdivision prohibits, restricts, or otherwise limits the critical infrastructure
           materials operations; and
      b. January 1, 2019.
   210.209. “Warehouse and Distribution Facilities” means buildings used primarily for the inside
      storage and distribution of goods and materials, which include land and buildings used as a relay


Page 43 of 262
      station for the transfer of goods from one vehicle or party to another, and the parking and
      storage of tractor and/or other trailer units.
   211.210. “Water Pumping Plant and Reservoir” means a natural or artificial water storage basin
      with a pumping station to distribute potable or irrigation water.
   212.211. “Water Treatment Facility” means the facility or facilities within the water supply
      system which can alter the physical, chemical, or bacteriological quality of the water.
   213.212. “Wind Energy System, Accessory” means a wind energy system that is accessory to the
      main use and is designed to power only the site on which it is constructed.
   214.213. “Wind Energy System, Commercial” means a wind energy system consisting of one or
      more wind turbines for commercial generation.




Page 44 of 262
                             Chapter 19.06 Nonconformities
19.06.010 - Continuation Of Use.
The occupancy of a noncomplying structure or of a structure occupied by a nonconforming use, which
existed at the time this Ordinance or any amendment thereto became effective, may be continued,
provided that the use has not been abandoned or the structure left vacant, as provided in this chapter.
19.06.020 - Noncomplying Structure or Structure Occupied by a Nonconforming Use.
A. Maintenance Permitted. A noncomplying structure may be maintained.
B. Repairs and Alterations Permitted.
   1. Repairs and structural alterations may be made to a noncomplying structure or to a structure
       occupied by a nonconforming use.
   2. Unless the new construction complies with this Ordinance, any remodel or structural alteration
       that requires the demolition of an outside wall of a noncomplying structure is only allowed upon
       approval by the Land Use Hearing Officer.
   3. The Land Use Hearing Officer decision regarding applications for the removal and replacement
       of outside walls of a noncomplying structure shall be based upon the following criteria:
       a. The proposed change is in harmony with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance.
       b. The proposed change does not impose any unreasonable burden upon the lands located in
            the vicinity.
C. Additions, Enlargements, Moving and Reconstruction at Another Location.
   1. Additions, enlargements, relocations and/or tear down and replacements of a noncomplying
       structure or of a structure occupied by a nonconforming use that comply with the regulations
       and intent of this Ordinance shall be allowed.
   2. Additions, enlargements, relocations and/or tear down and replacements of a noncomplying
       structure or structure occupied by a nonconforming use that do not comply with the regulations
       of this title shall not be allowed, except as allowed by a permit authorized by the Land Use
       Hearing Officer, provided that the Land Use Hearing Officer finds:
       a. The proposed change is in harmony with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance.
       b. The proposed change does not impose any unreasonable burden upon the lands located in
            the vicinity.
D. Restoration of Damaged Structure. A noncomplying structure or structure occupied by a
   nonconforming use that is damaged or destroyed by fire, flood, wind, earthquake or other calamity
   or act of God or the public enemy, and the damage is not the result of the intentional or reckless
   disregard of the owners or occupants, may be restored, and the occupancy or use of such structure
   or part thereof that existed at the time of such damage or destruction may be continued or
   resumed, provided that such restoration is started within a period of one year following damage or
   destruction, and the restoration is diligently prosecuted to completion.




Page 45 of 262
19.06.030 - Structure Declared a Noncomplying Structure.
The owner of a structure in violation of the maximum height or minimum yard requirements of this
Ordinance may file an application to have the structure declared noncomplying. The Director may
approve the application when the evidence clearly establishes:
A. The structure has existed at its current location for at least 10 years, with the same size, height and
   setbacks.
B. The structure poses no threat to the health or safety of persons in or around the structure.
C. No enforcement action for the violation has been taken or initiated for five consecutive years during
   which the violation existed.
19.06.040 - Nonconforming Use.
A. Occupancy Within One Year. A vacant structure may be occupied by the nonconforming use for
   which the structure was designed or intended if occupied within one year after the use became
   nonconforming.
B. Abandonment. With the exception of dwellings, a structure or portion thereof occupied by a
   nonconforming use which is abandoned can only be occupied by a use that conforms to the zone in
   which it is located. If a nonconforming use has not applied to the premises for at least 60
   consecutive days during any 12 month period, the use is deemed abandoned.
C. Expansion of Use Permitted. The area occupied by a nonconforming use may be expanded to
   include up to the entire floor area of the existing structure in which it is conducted, not to exceed
   the floor area that existed at the time the use became nonconforming.
D. Change of Use.
   1. A nonconforming use may be changed to any use allowed in the most restrictive zone where
       such nonconforming use is allowed, provided the Planning Commission finds that such use
       would not be more intensive than the most recent existing legal nonconforming use.
   2. Any change of a nonconforming use to another nonconforming use is a conditional use and
       subject to the conditional use approval standards, except that the proposed nonconforming use
       need not conform to the adopted General Plan.
   3. As part of the change of use, structures cannot be enlarged, removed, reconstructed or
       otherwise altered except for interior remodeling and exterior restoration or renewal that will
       make the appearance of the structure more nearly conform to the character of the area in
       which it is located.
   4. As part of the change of use, the existing lot cannot be enlarged or modified except to create
       landscape, fencing, curb, gutter and sidewalk, road widening or minimum off-street parking to
       provide a safer and more compatible facility.
E. Nonconforming Use of Land. Subject to the limitations in this section, the nonconforming use of land
   may continue, provided that no such nonconforming use of land can in any way expand or extend
   either on the same or adjoining property.




Page 46 of 262
                                 Chapter 19.08 Enforcement
19.08.010 - Enforcement Authority.
The Director is charged with the enforcement of this Ordinance and may employ all legal means
available to do so as set forth in Title 12 Code Enforcement and Community Preservation.
19.08.020 - Unlawful Use Prohibited.
A. No land, building or structure shall be developed, constructed, remodeled, restored, altered or used
   in violation of the provisions of this Ordinance or the zone in which such land, building or structure
   is located.
B. Violation of any of the provisions contained in this title is prohibited. Any person who violates the
   provisions of this title shall be subject to the criminal and civil penalties set forth in the municipal
   code.
19.08.030 - Violation--Penalties and Remedies.
A. Violation of any provision of this title is punishable as a Class C misdemeanor upon conviction. In
   addition, the provisions of this title may also be enforced by injunctions, mandamus, abatement,
   civil penalties, any other remedies provided by law, or any combination thereof.
B. For purposes of penalties and remedies set forth in this title, each day that a violation continues is a
   separate offense.
C. Accumulation of penalties for continuing violations, but not the obligation for payment of penalties
   already accrued, shall stop upon correction of the violation.
19.08.040 - Violation--Persons Liable.
Any person, corporation or other entity, whether as owner, occupant, agent or employee, who causes,
permits or otherwise participates in any violation of the provisions of this title may be held jointly and
severally responsible for the violation, suffer the penalties, and be subject to the remedies provided by
law.

             Chapter 19.10 Procedures for Analyzing Takings Claims
19.10.010 - Findings and Purpose.
The Council finds that:
A. Enactment of zoning and other land development regulations within (the municipality) is necessary
   to protect the health, welfare and safety of the residents of (the municipality);
B. When an owner of private property claims that the enforcement of any municipal land use
   regulation constitutes an unconstitutional taking of private property, it is in the municipality’s best
   interests to have established procedures for obtaining relevant information for analyzing and
   resolving such claims.
19.10.020 - Takings Relief Petition.
A. Takings Relief Petition.


Page 47 of 262
   1. Any applicant may file a takings relief petition with the Director alleging that a final decision of
       the Director, Planning Commission, Land Use Hearing Officer, Mayor or Council on a land use
       application results in an unconstitutional taking of the applicant’s private property.
   2. A takings relief petition shall be filed no later than 30 calendar days from the final decision of
       the Director, Planning Commission, Land Use Hearing Officer, Mayor, or Council.
B. Information to Be Submitted with Takings Relief Petition.
   1. The takings relief petition shall be submitted on a form prepared by the Director, and shall be
       accompanied at a minimum by the following information:
       a. The name of the petitioner;
       b. Sufficient facts to show that the petitioner possesses a protectable interest in property
           under Article I, Section 22 of the Constitution of Utah or the Fifth Amendment to the United
           States Constitution.
       c. The name and physical street address and mailing address of the current owner of the
           property; form of ownership (whether sole proprietorship, for-profit or not-for-profit
           corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, or other); and if owned by
           a corporation, partnership, joint venture, or limited liability company, the names and
           addresses of principal shareholders, partners, or members;
       d. The price paid and other terms of any sale of the property or any portion thereof, including
           the date of purchase, the name of the seller, and the relationship, if any, between the
           petitioner (owner or developer) and the party from whom the property was acquired;
       e. The nature of the protectable interest claimed to be affected, such as, but not limited to, fee
           simple ownership or leasehold interest;
       f. All appraisals of the property prepared for any purpose, include financing, offering for sale,
           or ad valorem taxation, within the three years prior to the date of the petition;
       g. The assessed value of and ad valorem taxes on the property for the three years prior to the
           date of the petition;
       h. All information concerning current mortgages or other loans secured by the property,
           including name of the mortgagee or lender, current interest rate, remaining loan balance,
           term of the loan, and other significant provisions, including but not limited to, right of
           purchase to assume the loan;
       i. All listings of the property for sale or rent, price asked and offers received (if any), during the
           period of ownership or interest in the property;
       j. All studies commissioned by the petitioner or agents of the petitioner within the previous
           three years concerning feasibility of development or utilization of the property;
       k. For income producing property, itemized income and expense statements from the property
           for the previous three years;
       l. Evidence and documentation of improvements, investments, and expenditures for
           professional and other services related to the property made during the past three years;
       m. Information from a title policy or other source showing all recorded liens or encumbrances
           affecting the property; and
       n. Information describing all use(s) of the property during the five years prior to the petition.
   2. The Director may request additional information reasonably necessary to arrive at a conclusion
       concerning whether there has been a taking.


Page 48 of 262
C. Failure to Submit Information. In the event that any of the required information from the petitioner
   is not reasonably available, the petitioner shall file with the petition a statement of the information
   that cannot be obtained and the reasons why such information is unavailable.
19.10.030 - Procedures to Determine Takings Claims.
A. Preliminary Determination of Taking.
   1. Within 30 days of the filing of a petition with all required information, the Council, in
        consultation with the Director and the Attorney, shall make a preliminary determination on the
        issue of whether a taking may have occurred.
   2. If the Council makes a preliminary determination that a taking may have occurred, the Director
        and Attorney shall recommend whether a further hearing shall be formal or informal under the
        rules of procedure adopted by the Council for such hearings. The Council shall then:
        a. Appoint a hearing officer,
        b. Elect to conduct either formal or informal administrative proceedings, and
        c. Proceed with a full review of the petition.
   3. If the Council, upon consultation with the Director and the Attorney, determines that a taking
        has not occurred, the petition shall be denied and no hearing officer shall be appointed.
B. Appointment and Qualifications of Hearing Officer.
   1. Within 30 days following a preliminary determination by the Council that a taking may have
        occurred, the Director shall contact the appointed hearing officer to review information by the
        petitioner. The hearing officer shall hold a public hearing to determine whether a taking has
        occurred, and make a recommendation to the Council concerning the petition.
   2. The appointed hearing officer shall be licensed to practice law in the state of Utah. Prior to
        appointment, the hearing officer shall submit a statement of no potential or actual conflict of
        interest under the Utah Rules of Professional Conduct, in connection with the petitioner or
        petition at issue.
C. Notice of Public Hearing. Within ten days following appointment of the hearing officer, written
   notice of a public hearing shall be published and posted in accordance with the Utah Code 10-9a.
   The hearing shall be held within 30 days of the date of written notice unless a reasonable extension
   of time is agreed to by both the Director and petitioner.
D. Conduct of the Hearing.
   1. Rules of Procedure. The hearing shall be conducted according to the requirements of the rules
        of procedure adopted by the Council for such hearings.
   2. Burden of Proof. The petitioner shall have the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
        evidence that the final decision that is the subject of the takings relief petition constitutes an
        unconstitutional taking.
   3. Municipality Response. (The municipality) shall have the right to respond to any allegations
        provided by the petitioner and present evidence at the hearing.
E. Determining the Takings Issue. The hearing officer shall consider, among other items, the following
   information or evidence:
   1. Any estimates from contractors, appraisers, architects, real estate analysts, qualified
        developers, or other competent and qualified real estate professionals concerning the feasibility
        of construction or development on the property as of the date of the petition, and in the
        reasonably near future;

Page 49 of 262
   2. Any evidence or testimony of the market value of the property both under the uses allowed by
        the existing regulations and any proposed use; and
   3. Any evidence or testimony concerning the value or benefit to the petitioner of clustered
        development on other remaining contiguous property owned by the petitioner, and eligibility
        for such clustering as provided elsewhere in this title.
F. Findings of the Hearing Officer. On the basis of the evidence and testimony presented, the hearing
   officer shall make the following specific findings as part of his/her report and recommendations to
   the Council:
   1. Whether the petitioner has provided the required information for a takings relief petition;
   2. Whether the petitioner has a protectable interest in the property that is the subject of the
        petition;
   3. The market value of the property under the existing zoning regulation;
   4. The market value of the property under the proposed use;
   5. Whether there are other economically viable uses that may be made of the property;
   6. The market value of, or benefit accruing from eligible clustered development on other
        remaining contiguous property owned by the petitioner;
   7. Whether it was feasible to undertake construction on, or development of, the property as of the
        date of the application, or in the reasonably near future thereafter;
   8. Whether the final decision that is the subject of the takings relief petition constitutes an
        unconstitutional taking of private property without just compensation
G. Report and Recommendations of the Hearing Officer.
   1. The hearing officer shall prepare a report and recommendation which shall be submitted to the
        Council and mailed to the petitioner within 30 days following the conclusion of the public
        hearing.
   2. If the hearing officer finds that the final decision that is the subject of the takings relief petition
        constitutes an unconstitutional taking of private property without just compensation, the
        matter shall be remanded to the Council with recommendations concerning relief that might be
        appropriate. In making such recommendations, the hearing officer shall consider, among other
        remedies:
        a. Approval of development on some portion of the property;
        b. A rezoning of the property to a more appropriate classification, approval of an alternative
             development plan, modification or waiver of normally applicable development standards, or
             other appropriate land-use regulatory action;
        c. An opportunity to cluster development. Recommendations for clustering within the
             boundaries of the subject property owned by the petitioner shall require a written finding
             by the hearing officer that such clustering and the resulting increase in development density
             will be compatible with existing developments and land use patterns on properties
             surrounding the subject property. For purposes of such “compatibility” finding, the hearing
             officer shall compare the petitioner’s proposed development, incorporating the increased
             transfer density with existing development on surrounding properties, and take into
             consideration the following factors:
             (1) Architectural character;
             (2) Building size, height, bulk, mass, and scale;
             (3) Building orientation;

Page 50 of 262
            (4) Privacy considerations in terms of privacy for prospective residents within the
                 petitioner’s development and in terms of privacy protection for adjoining land uses;
            (5) Building materials;
            (6) Building color; and
            (7) When applicable, operations of the petitioner’s development project, including but not
                 limited to hours of operation; activities that may generate adverse impacts on adjacent
                 land uses such as noise or glare; location of loading/delivery zones; and light intensity
                 and hours of full illumination.
       d. A waiver of permit fees; or
       e. Acquisition of all or a portion of the property at market value.
H. Council Review and Consideration.
   1. Within 60 days following receipt of the hearing officer’s report, the Council shall review the
       report and recommendations and approve or deny the takings relief petition.
       a. The Council may extend the period for final determination upon a finding that due to the
            size and complexity of the development or proposal and similar factors, additional review
            time is necessary.
   2. The Council may hold a public hearing and provide notice as set forth in Utah Code 10-9a. Only
       new testimony and evidence shall be presented at any such public hearing.
   3. The Council may adopt any legally available incentive or measure reasonably necessary to offset
       the taking and may condition such incentives upon approval of specific development or site
       plans.
   4. The decision of the Council shall not become final until it adoptes a resolution approving or
       denying the petition and specifying any relief it may deem appropriate.
I. Time Limits/Transferal of Relief or Incentives. Any relief or incentives adopted by the Council
   pursuant to this chapter may be transferred and utilized by successive owners of the property or
   parties in interest, but in no case shall the relief incentives be valid after the expiration date of a
   specific development approval.



            Chapter 19.12 Administrative Bodies Powers and Duties
19.12.010 – Purpose.
The purpose of this chapter is to outline the specific powers and duties of the different boards,
commissions and officials having administrative, legislative, or quasi-judicial roles set forth in this
Ordinance.
19.12.020 – Council.
The council has the authority to enact and amend land use ordinances and to enact and amend a zoning
map for the Municipality.
19.12.030 - Planning Commission
A. Appointment—Term.




Page 51 of 262
Chapter 19.12 Administrative Bodies Powers and Duties


   1. The planning commission shall consist of five members and up to two alternate members, each
      of whom shall reside in the municipality. Members and alternate members shall be appointed
      by the mayor with the advice and consent of the council.
   2. Terms shall commence on March 1st of each year. Members shall serve three-year terms or
      longer until successors are appointed. Terms shall be staggered so that the terms of at least two
      members, and not more than three, expire each year.
   3. If a member’s term expires before a successor is appointed, the member shall continue to serve
      until a successor is appointed.
   4. Members and alternate members may be reappointed for a second term but may not serve
      more than two consecutive terms as a member or alternate member.
B. Vacancy—Removal.
   1. Any vacancy occurring on the planning commission by reason of death, resignation, removal or
      disqualification shall be filled by the mayor with the advice and consent of the council for the
      unexpired term of such member.
   2. The mayor, with the advice and consent of the council, may remove a member of the planning
      commission for cause after filing written charges against the member. The member will be
      provided with a hearing on the charges if requested by the member being removed.
C. Organization—Procedures.
   1. The planning commission shall elect a chairperson from its members who shall serve a one-year
      term. The chairperson is a voting member.
   2. The planning commission shall elect a vice chairperson from its members who shall serve a one-
      year term. The vice chairperson is the designated chair pro-tempore and a voting member.
   3. The planning commission may create and fill any other necessary offices it deems necessary and
      may adopt policies and procedures for the conduct of its meetings, the processing of
      applications, and for any other purpose the planning commission considers necessary for its
      proper function.
   4. A minimum of three (3) full and/or alternate members in attendance at the meeting is required
      to constitute a quorum.
   5. The minimum number of "yes" votes necessary to carry an action of the commission shall be a
      majority of the members of the quorum in attendance but shall never be less than three (3).
   6. Alternate members shall be designated to sit as voting members of the commission at any time
      one or more regular members are absent from the meeting. The designation of the alternate
      member to voting status shall be made by the chairman at the commencement of the meeting
      in accordance with the seniority of the alternate members in attendance at the time, and any
      alternate so designated shall serve as a voting member until the conclusion of the meeting.
D. Powers and duties. The planning commission shall:
   1. Prepare and recommend a general plan and amendments to the general plan to the council;
   2. Prepare and recommend zoning ordinances and maps and amendments to zoning ordinances
      and maps to the council;
   3. Prepare and recommend subdivision ordinances and amendments to those ordinances to the
      council;

Page 52 of 262 White City Draft Ordinance for Title 19 For Review by Council and Planning Commission
Only

Last Updated: 12/15/2022 11:00:32 AM
Chapter 19.12 Administrative Bodies Powers and Duties


   4. Prepare and recommend condominium ordinances and amendments to those ordinances to the
       council;
   5. Review subdivision plats as set forth in Title 18 Subdivisions;
   6. Approve or deny condominium plans and plats;
   7. Approve or deny conditional use permits;
   8. Advise the council on matters that the council directs;
   9. To make, at the request of the Director, an interpretation of the zone map regarding the
       location of zone boundary lines;
   10. To decide, at the request of the Director, the meaning of disputed terms or phrases within the
       text of the zoning regulations; and
   11. Provide other functions as specified in this chapter or as directed by the council.
E. Effect on present members. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to affect the eligibility or
   qualifications to serve of any of the present members of the planning commission whose terms have
   not expired or to affect their eligibility for reappointment.
19.12.040 - Land Use Hearing Officer.
A. Creation.
   1. The position of land use hearing officer is created pursuant to the enabling authority granted by
       the Land Use, Development, and Management Act, section 10-9a-701 of the Utah Code
       Annotated.
   2. The land use hearing officer shall be an administrative law judge appointed as provided in the
       Municipal Code.
B. Procedures.
   1. The land use hearing officer may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
   2. Hearings the land use hearing officer holds on appeals of a land use decision are not subject to
       Chapter 4, Title 52, Utah Code, Open and Public Meetings Act.
       a. The land use hearing officer shall:
           (1) Keep minutes of all proceedings;
           (2) Keep records of all examinations and other official actions; and
           (3) File all records in the office of Planning and Development Services. All such records are
               public records.
   3. Decisions of the land use hearing officer become effective immediately following the meeting in
       which the decision is made, unless a different time is designated at the time the decision is
       made.
C. Powers and duties. The land use hearing officer shall:
   1. Act as the appeal authority for zoning decisions applying this title as provided in Section
       19.16.020 and for decisions by a planning commission;
   2. Hear and decide the special exceptions to the terms of the zoning ordinance set forth in Section
       19.20.020.B.3;
   3. Hear and decide variances from the terms of the zoning ordinance as set forth in Section
       19.20.010;

Page 53 of 262 White City Draft Ordinance for Title 19 For Review by Council and Planning Commission
Only

Last Updated: 12/15/2022 11:00:32 AM
Chapter 19.12 Administrative Bodies Powers and Duties


   4. Hear and decide applications for the expansion or modification of nonconforming uses; and
   5. To make, upon appeal, an interpretation of the zone map regarding the location of zone
      boundary lines or decide the meaning of disputed terms or phrases within the text of the zoning
      regulations.




Page 54 of 262 White City Draft Ordinance for Title 19 For Review by Council and Planning Commission
Only

Last Updated: 12/15/2022 11:00:32 AM
Chapter 19.12 Administrative Bodies Powers and Duties


19.12.050 – Director.
The Director has the following powers:
A. To make an interpretation of the zoning map regarding the location of zone boundary lines, or
   decide the meaning of disputed terms or phrases within the text or the zoning regulations. The
   Director, at his or her discretion, may defer interpretations of the zoning map or the meaning of
   disputed terms or phrases within the text of the zoning regulations to the Planning Commission;
B. To make administrative determinations as to the classification of uses not specifically listed in this
   Ordinance subject to appeal to the Planning Commission. Administrative determinations shall be
   based upon a comparison of the nature and characteristics of the proposed use with those uses
   specifically authorized in the intended zone;
C. To review and make decisions on conditional use amendments as set forth in 19.16.040.G.1
D. To review and make decisions on occupancy permits;
E. To receive and forward applications for zoning amendments, variances, conditional uses, zoning
   appeals and other administrative reviews required by this Ordinance to the appropriate board,
   commission or official;
F. To maintain permanent and current records as required by this Ordinance including, but not limited
   to, all relevant information and official action on zoning amendments, variances, conditional uses,
   zoning appeals and other administrative reviews;
G. To conduct inspections of structures or the use of land to determine whether there is compliance
   with this Ordinance, and, in case of any violation, to order corrective action;
H. To administer application review procedures as set forth in chapter 19.16; and
I. To review and make decisions on special exceptions, waivers, or modifications as specified in this
   Ordinance.




Page 55 of 262 White City Draft Ordinance for Title 19 For Review by Council and Planning Commission
Only

Last Updated: 12/15/2022 11:00:32 AM
Chapter 19.14 Zones, Zoning Map, and Boundaries


                 Chapter 19.14 Zones, Zoning Map, and Boundaries
19.14.010 - Zones Established.
For the purpose of this title, (the municipality) is divided into classes of zones, as follows:
R-1-8            Single family residential zone
R-1-10           Single family residential zone
R-1-15           Single family residential zone
R-1-21           Single family residential zone
R-1-43           Single family residential zone
R-2-6.5          Medium density residential zone
R-2-8            Medium density residential zone
R-2-10           Medium density residential zone
R-4-8.5          Medium density residential zone
A-1              Agricultural zone
A-2              Agricultural zone
NMU              Neighborhood Mixed Use zone
CMU              Corridor Mixed Use zone
C-1              Commercial zone
C-2              Commercial zone
P-R              Parks and Recreation zone


19.14.020 - Zoning Maps.
Each of the sections of (the municipality) which are zoned by this title are shown on the maps on file
with Planning & Development Services, and such maps are made by this reference, as such, a part of this
title as if fully described and detailed herein. Said maps may be in an electronic or Geographic
Information System (GIS) format. Amendments to the zoning map shall follow the process outlined in
Section 19.16.080 of this title.
19.14.030 - Filing of This Title and Zoning Maps.
This title and the maps shall be filed in the custody of the municipal clerk, and may be examined by the
public subject to any reasonable regulations established by the municipal clerk.



Page 56 of 262 White City Draft Ordinance for Title 19 For Review by Council and Planning Commission
Only

Last Updated: 12/15/2022 11:00:32 AM
19.14.040 - Boundary Location Rules.
A. Where uncertainty exists as to the boundary of any zone, the following rules shall apply:
   1. Wherever the zone boundary is indicated as being approximately upon the centerline of a
      street, alley or block, or along a property line, then, unless otherwise definitely indicated on the
      map, the centerline of the street, alley or block, or such property line, shall be construed to be
      the boundary of the zone;
   2. Whenever such boundary line of such zone is indicated as being approximately at the line of any
      river, irrigation canal or other waterway or railroad right-of-way, or public park, or other public
      land, or any section line, then in such case the center of the stream, canal or waterway, or of the
      railroad right-of-way, or the boundary line of such public land or such section line shall be
      deemed to be the boundary of the zone;
B. Where the application of the above rules does not clarify the zone boundary location, the land use
   hearing officer shall interpret the map.
19.14.050 - Zoning of Annexed Areas.
Properties that are annexed into the municipality shall be given a zoning designation by action of the
Council at the time of annexation. The Council shall be guided by the general plan and by the criteria set
forth in Table 19.16-2 in zoning the subject property. Annexations of multiple parcels may result in more
than one zone applying to the annexation area; however, except in the case of overlay zones, only one
zone may apply to each parcel.




Page 57 of 262 White City Draft Ordinance (ESTIMATED ADOPTION IN JANUARY 2022)
                     Chapter 19.16 Land Use Processes and Procedures

    19.16.010 – Purpose.
    The purpose of this chapter is to delineate the procedures, requirements and approval standards that
    apply to land use and zoning applications and approvals.
    Table 19.16-1


    This table is an illustrative summary of the administrative and legislative decision processes in Title 19.
    If there are any inconsistencies between this table and the other provisions of this Title, the other
    provisions of the Title govern.


                        ZONING MAP AND
REFERENCE TABLE:        TEXT                                                                           SPECIAL
                                              PERMITTED          CONDITIONAL
APPLICATIONS &          AMENDMENTS                                                  VARIANCES
                                              USE                USE                                   EXCEPTIONS
APPROVALS               AND OTHER
                        LEGISLATIVE ACTS
                                              Property           Property           Property           Property
                        Property owner,
                                              owner or a         owner or a         owner or a         owner or a
                        person authorized
                                              person             person             person             person
APPLICATION             in writing by the
                                              authorized in      authorized in      authorized in      authorized in
INITIATION              property owner,
                                              writing by the     writing by the     writing by the     writing by the
                        Council or
                                              property           property           property           property
                        Planning Staff
                                              owner              owner              owner              owner
                        In accordance         Not required
                        with Utah Code                           In accordance      In accordance      In accordance
NOTICE(1)               10-9a                                    with Utah          with Utah          with Utah
                                                                 Code 10-9a         Code 10-9a         Code 10-9a(2)

                        Planning              Public agency      Planning
RECOMMENDATION          Commission,           review             Commisison,        Public input       Public input
                        public input                             Public Input




    Page 58 of 262
                       ZONING MAP AND
REFERENCE TABLE:       TEXT                                                                       SPECIAL
                                            PERMITTED         CONDITIONAL
APPLICATIONS &         AMENDMENTS                                               VARIANCES
                                            USE               USE                                 EXCEPTIONS
APPROVALS              AND OTHER
                       LEGISLATIVE ACTS
                                                                                                  Land use
                                                                                                  hearing
                                                                                                  officer,
                                                              Planning                            Planning
                                                              Commission        Land use
FINAL DECISION         Council              Director or                                           Commission,
                                                                                hearing officer
                                            designee          Council                             or Director
                                                                                                  (dependent
                                                                                                  on application
                                                                                                  type)
                                            Land use          Land use          3rd District      3rd District
APPEAL BODY            3rd District Court
                                            hearing officer   hearing officer   Court             Court


    TABLE 19.16-1: FOOTNOTES
    1 When required, notices shall be mailed 10 days prior to the meeting to property owners within 300
    feet of the subject property’s boundary.
    2 Not required for exceptions approved by the Director.


    19.16.020 - General Administrative Procedures.
    The Director is the administrator of the Zoning Ordinance with power to review and make decisions on
    zoning ordinance interpretations. The authority and responsibility of the Director shall include the
    following:
    A. Review of Development Plans. The Director shall establish development plan review processes to
       ensure that proposed land uses and development plans comply with the provisions of this
       Ordinance and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare. At the discretion of the
       Director or Designee, review of permit or license applications may be conducted without submittal
       of a land use application if compliance can be ascertained based on the permit or license application
       documents.
    B. Interpretation of Permitted and Conditional Uses – Administrative Determination. The Director shall
       determine whether proposed uses of property are consistent with the permitted and conditional
       uses within each zone. The procedure to request the Director’s determination shall be as follows:
       1. Written Request. A written request for a determination shall be filed with the Director or
           Designee, which shall include a detailed description of the proposed use and such other
           information as the Director may require.




    Page 59 of 262
    2. Investigation. The Director shall undertake such investigations as deemed necessary to compare
       the proposed use with those uses specifically listed in this title, and to make a determination of
       the proper classification.
    3. Determination. Within 30 days of the filing of a written request, the Director shall prepare a
       written determination, which shall be provided to the applicant. The determination shall state
       the zone classification in which the proposed use will be permitted as well as the basis for
       finding that such use is of the same character as uses allowed in that zone classification. The
       determination and all information related thereto shall become a permanent public record in
       the office of the Director.
    4. Effect. The use as specified in the determination of the Director shall thereafter become a
       permitted or conditional use in the class of zoning district specified in the determination, and
       shall have the same status as a permitted or conditional use specifically named in the
       regulations for the zone classification.
    5. Appeal. The Director’s determination may be appealed to the Land use hearing officer. Such
       appeal shall be filed in writing within 10 days after written notification to the applicant of the
       Director’s determination.
19.16.030 - Land Use Applications.
A. Applications. A property owner, or other person expressly authorized in writing by the property
   owner, may file for a land use permit. All land use applications for permitted or conditional uses
   shall be filed with the Director or Designee. Applications shall contain:
   1. An application form provided by Planning and Development Services which form may be via
       online submitting software.
   2. Property identification documents such as a legal description, plat map, and if applicable, site
       survey. This is not required for text amendments.
   3. Plans and other documents as necessary to evaluate the proposed application for compliance
       with applicable codes, including a site plan (see Subsection 19.16.030.B), building elevations,
       preliminary landscape and amenities plans, preliminary grading/drainage plan, and any other
       pertinent documents.
   4. Applications are subject to the Completeness Review process outlined in 19.16.030.C. An
       application is considered as having been accepted only when deemed a complete application
       and the applicable application fees have been paid.
B. Plans.
   1. Site Plan. A detailed site plan is required as part of all applications for land use or development
       approval, including conditional uses, permitted uses, variances, special exceptions, and building
       permits. The Director may specify the number of plans required and the medium (electronic,
       paper, etc.) in which site plans may be submitted. The site plan shall show:
       a. Scale.
       b. Direction of North point.
       c. Lot lines and adjacent streets, roads and rights-of-way.
       d. Location of all existing structures on subject property and adjoining properties, completely
            dimensioned, including utility lines, poles, etc.
       e. Location and building elevations of any proposed construction and improvements, including
            the location of all signs.


Page 60 of 262
        f. Vehicle access, including circulation patterns and the location of individual parking stalls,
           curbs, gutters, and sidewalks.
       g. Any necessary explanatory notes, including calculations of lot coverage, parking ratios, gross
           floor area of buildings, easements, floodplains, topography, rights of way and other notes
           necessary to evaluate for compliance with all applicable land use requirements.
       h. Name, address and telephone number of builder and owner.
       i. Any other information required by the Director or indicated on the application form.
   2. Building Elevations. Building elevations, when required, shall show:
       a. Note of scale used
       b. Orientation of each elevation, including distance to nearest property line
       c. Explanatory notes describing building, cladding and trim materials
       d. Original and finished grade at all points along each elevation of the building
       e. A building envelope that describes that maximum buildable height of all elevations as
           measured from original grade
       f. Finished floor elevations of all levels of a building including, but not limited to, basements,
           garages, patios, and decks
       g. Top of footing elevations at each corner of the building
       h. Total height of building, as measured from original ground surface to the highest point of
           the coping of a flat roof, or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the highest point of
           pitched or hipped roofs, or gambrel roofs
       i. Necessary explanatory notes to address any requirements particular to the zone in which
           the property is located
       j. All other information that may be required, as determined by the Director
   3. Preliminary Landscape Plan. Preliminary landscape plans, when required, shall show:
       a. Note of scale used, north arrow and preparation date
       b. Project name and address
       c. General landscape design intent statement including the general character and location of
           proposed landscaping and open areas
       d. A legend showing all plant types and sizes, symbols, line types, hatching and abbreviations
           used in the plan set
       e. Site boundary, property lines, and any construction phasing lines
       f. All existing significant vegetation, including an indication of what is proposed to be removed
       g. All existing and proposed structures
       h. All proposed softscape and hardscape areas
       i. A tabulation of the total project area, landscaped area, impervious areas, building coverage
           areas and building coverage percentage
       j. Detailed landscape improvements with planting symbols clearly drawn to indicate each
           plant
       k. The name and contact information of the landscape design professional who prepared the
           plan
   4. Other plans and documents. Other plans and documents may be required in order to verify
       compliance with this Title or other applicable codes, ordinances, statutes and regulations.
C. Completeness Review. Upon receipt of an application request and associated documents, the
   Director or Designee shall review the application to determine whether:


Page 61 of 262
      a. Complete and accurate plans have been submitted,
      b. The application itself contains complete information regarding the property, applicant,
           proposed land use,
      c. All prerequisite conditions for the specific land use have been addressed, and,
      d. The property owner or authorized agent has authorized the submittal of the application.
   2. If the application is determined to be incomplete, the Director or Designee shall notify the
      applicant in writing within 14 days:
      a. That the application is incomplete, and
      b. The specific components of the application deemed insufficient.
   3. Upon notice being given, an application deemed incomplete shall be terminated after 60 days if
      the necessary components to complete the application have not been submitted.
   4. If the application is determined to be complete, the Director or Designee shall authorize the
      payment of the applicable application fees.
   5. At any time during the Completeness Review process outlined in this subsection, a pre-
      application meeting may be requested by the applicant or Director or Designee to discuss the
      application, plans, and anticipated review process. In order to facilitate efficiency of review
      process, the Director or Designee may invite representatives from other reviewing agencies as
      well as the applicant’s design professionals to the meeting.
D. Application Review. The application review process may include:
   1. The creation of a planning file for reference by the applicant, staff and the public.
   2. An on-site review by the Director or Designee as allowed in Utah Code 10-9a-303.
   3. Review of the submitted site plan and elevations for compliance with this Ordinance in effect on
      the date the applicant submitted a complete application.
   4. Referral of the application and site plans to those government agencies and affected entities
      authorized to protect the health, safety and welfare of the public and to ensure the project's
      compliance with this Ordinance and all other applicable ordinances and codes.
   5. Referral of the application for conditional uses to the appropriate decision-making body as set
      forth in section 19.16.040.
   6. An action letter informing the applicant as to whether the application has been approved,
      approved with conditions, denied, or tabled pending the submittal of additional information or
      amended plans.
19.16.040 - Conditional Uses.
A. Initiation.
   1. A property owner, or other person expressly authorized in writing by the property owner, may
        file for a conditional use permit for that property. In addition to the request for land use
        approval, a conditional use application may include a request for land development plan
        approval.
   2. The Planning Commission is the land use authority and shall take formal action on requests for
        conditional use permits. When a land development plan is submitted in conjunction with a
        conditional use application, the land development plan shall be included in the materials
        presented to the planning commission. In rendering an approval, conditions of approval may be
        imposed by the planning commission that necessitate changes to the land development plan.




Page 62 of 262
   3. As administrator of the zoning ordinance, the director is responsible to ensure the land
      development plan not only complies with the applicable codes and ordinances, but also
      complies to the conditions of approval imposed by the planning commission. If, during the
      course of land development plan review, the director finds changes are made to the site plan
      not in harmony with the conditions imposed by the planning commission, the Director may, at
      their discretion, refer the land development plan to the planning commission for review.
B. Land Use Approval.
   1. Approval Process.
      a. The Planning Commission shall consider applications for a conditional use permit in a public
           meeting and shall make a decision recommendation on the proposed conditional use,
           evaluating the application in accordance with the standards in subsection D below.
      b. The Planning Commission shall make a recommendation take action in the form of approval,
           modified approval or denial on applications for conditional uses which shall be forwarded on
           to the Council for final review. Unless otherwise designated, a decision by the Planning
           Commission approving a conditional use application authorizes the director to proceed with
           approval of the land development plan.
      c. The Council shall consider applications for a conditional use permit in a public meeting and
           shall make a decision on the proposed conditional use with the recommendation from the
           Planning Commission and evaluating the application in accordance with the standards in
           subsection D below.
      b.d. The Council shall take action in the form of approval, modified approval, or denial on
           applications for conditional uses. Unless otherwise designated, a decision by the Council to
           approve a conditional use application authorizes the Director or designee to proceed with
           approval of the land development plan.
      c.e. The Planning Commission Council shall take action on a complete conditional use permit
           application within a reasonable time frame, not to exceed 90 days from the date the
           application was first heard by the Council Planning Commission unless a further extension of
           time is requested by the applicant.
      d.f. Failure by the applicant to provide information that has been requested by the Planning
           Commission, Council or the Director to resolve conflicts with the standards in Subsection D
           may result in an application being denied.
      e.g. The Director, under authority of the Council Planning Commission, shall grant final approval
           of conditional use permit applications after all of the conditions and requirements of the
           preliminary approval have been met. Applications with a land development plan element
           shall not receive final conditional use approval until the land development plan has been
           approved by the director. As a condition of preliminary approval, the Council Planning
           Commission may require that final land development plan be brought before the Council
           Planning Commission for final approval.
      f.h. Final approval of a conditional use permit application is in the form of a letter to the
           applicant, which, together with the approved land development plan if required, constitutes
           the conditional use permit. Final approval shall not modify or invalidate any of the
           conditions or terms imposed by the CouncilPlanning Commission.




Page 63 of 262
   2. Approval Standards. The Planning Commission and Council shall review the site plan and other
       information submitted to evaluate the impacts of the proposed conditional use. The Planning
       Commission may recommend impose conditions to mitigate the reasonably anticipated
       detrimental impacts of the proposed use. The Council may impose conditions to mitigate the
       reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. A conditional use permit shall
       be approved unless the imposition of conditions cannot mitigate reasonably anticipated
       detrimental effects in accordance with the following standards:
       a. The proposed site development plan complies with all applicable provisions of the zoning
            ordinance, including specific use standards, parking, building setbacks, and building height.
       b. The proposed use and site development plan complies with all other applicable laws and
            ordinances.
       c. The proposed use and site development plan does not present a serious traffic hazard or
            create anticipated traffic increases on the nearby road system which exceeds the amounts
            called for under the adopted transportation engineering standards.
       d. The proposed use and site development plan do not pose a serious threat to the safety of
            occupants or residents or properties in the vicinity by failure to adequately address the
            following issues: fire safety, geologic hazards, soil or slope conditions, liquefaction potential,
            site grading/topography, storm drainage/flood control, high ground water, environmental
            health hazards, or wetlands.
       e. The proposed use and site development plan do not adversely impact properties in the
            vicinity of the site through lack of compatibility with adopted community general plan
            standards.
C. Rules for Approved Conditional Uses. The following general rules apply to all approved conditional
   uses:
   1. Approval of a conditional use authorizes only the particular use for which the conditional use is
       issued.
   2. No use authorized by a conditional use may be enlarged, extended or relocated, unless an
       application is made for approval of a new conditional use in accordance with the procedures set
       forth in this section.
   3. Development of the property shall not commence until the applicant has secured all the permits
       and approvals required by municipal ordinances and any permits required by regional, state,
       and federal agencies.
D. Expiration and Extension of Time.
   1. A conditional use expires 12 months from the date of final approval by the Director, unless a
       building permit is obtained within such period and substantial construction is started or the use
       is commenced within such period in compliance with all required conditions and this Ordinance.
   2. One 12-month extension may be granted upon the payment of an additional filing fee equal to
       the original filing fee. Such extension shall be filed before the end of the initial 12-month period.
E. Revocation of Conditional Use.
   1. The Council Planning Commission may revoke a conditional use permit upon a finding of failure
       to comply with the terms and conditions of the original approval or for any violation of this
       Ordinance or other applicable law.




Page 64 of 262
   2. The Council Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing prior to taking action on
       revocation. Notice of the hearing and the grounds for consideration of revocation shall be
       mailed to the permittee and affected entities at least 10 days prior to the hearing.
F. Amendments to Conditional Uses. Applications may be submitted for amendments to previously
   approved conditional uses or to sites for which conditional uses have been approved. Applications
   for amendment will be reviewed and approved in harmony with the provisions of subsection D
   above but shall be evaluated for the anticipated impacts that will result from the specific
   amendment being requested. Approval authority for conditional use amendments is as follows:
   1. Director Approval.
       a. The Director has the authority to approve the following conditional use amendments:
           (1) Changes of use from one conditional use to another, where no site modifications are
                proposed or required, and where no significant additional impact will result.
           (2) Amendments to the site plan that do not involve changing the land use and that also
                meet the following criteria:
                (A) The building footprint is not increased by more than 20%.
                (B) The site acreage is not increased.
                (C) No dwelling units are being added.
                (D) No significant additional impact will result.
           (3) Amendments to the conditions of approval imposed upon a conditional use that the
                Director previously approved if the proposed change in conditions is the result of a clear
                change in the circumstances of the property, and the change is in harmony with
                subsection D above.
           (4) Approval of a use that is listed as a conditional use in the zone, but which is clearly
                accessory to another land use on the property, and no significant additional impact will
                result.
   2. Council Planning Commission Approval. The Planning CommissionCouncil has the authority to
       approve:
       a. All other amendments to conditional uses, and
       b. Amendments that may meet the criteria for Director approval outlined above, but for which
           the Director determines the public interest is better served by referring the application to
           the Planning CommissionCouncil.
G. Appeals. Appeals may be made to the Land use hearing officer within 10 days of the date of the
   decision of the Council Planning Commission or Director, as applicable.
19.16.050 - Withdrawal of Application.
A. An applicant may withdraw an application at any time prior to the final decision on the application,
   including any time during which the application has been tabled.
B. An applicant may request a refund of fees at the time the application is withdrawn. The Director
   shall consider the amount of work performed by Staff on the application when determining whether
   or to what extent fees may be refunded. Fees associated with a public meeting or hearing shall not
   be refunded if the if the item is has been heard at a public meeting or hearing.
C. A notice of withdrawal of an application and a request for refund of fees shall be in writing and
   submitted to the Director.




Page 65 of 262
19.16.060 - Performance Bonds.
A. Any required improvements such as curb, gutter and sidewalk, fences, and public landscaping shall
   be satisfactorily installed prior to the municipality authorizing electrical service or, if no electrical
   service is required, prior to issuance of any occupancy permit.
B. In lieu of completing such improvements, the developer applicant may file a performance guarantee
   as outline in Chapter 18.16, cash or surety bond, escrow agreement, or letter of credit with the
   Mayor, in an amount sufficient to ensure completion of improvements within one year.
   1. Ten percent (10%) of a bond amount for public improvements shall extend for a one year period
        beyond the date the improvements are completed to guarantee replacement of any defective
        public improvements.
   2. Ten percent (10%) of a bond amount for live plants shall extend for a one year period beyond
        the date of planting of public landscaping to guarantee replacement of diseased or dead plants.
   3. Upon completion of the improvements for which a bond or escrow agreement has been filed,
        the developer may call for inspections of the improvements by the Director.
C. Whenever necessary in order to protect the health, safety and welfare of residents from traffic,
   flood, drainage or other hazards, the Mayor may require as part of bond approval that
   improvements be completed in a specified sequence and in less than one year. Such requirements
   shall be incorporated into the bond.
D. Bonds will be processed and released in accordance with the procedures set forth in Chapter 3.56 of
   the Municipal Code.
E. When the developer is a school district, municipality, service area, special-purpose district or other
   political subdivision of the State, the Mayor may waive the bond and accept in lieu thereof a letter
   from the governing body guaranteeing installation of the improvements. Before approving any such
   waiver, the Mayor shall receive a recommendation from the Director.
19.16.070 - Occupancy Permits.
A. A permit of occupancy is required prior to the occupancy of any building hereafter erected, enlarged
   or structurally altered, or where any vacant land is hereafter proposed to be occupied or used for
   anything other than permitted agricultural uses.
B. The permit of occupancy shall be issued by the chief building inspector and the Director if the use
   and/or building or premises conforms to the provisions of this title and related ordinances.
C. A permit of occupancy shall also be required whenever the character or use of any building or land is
   proposed to be changed from one use to another use.
D. Upon written request from the owner, a permit of occupancy shall also be issued covering any
   lawful use of a building or premises existing on the effective date of this Ordinance, including
   nonconforming buildings and uses.
19.16.080 - Zoning Map and Text Amendments.
A. Initiation. A zoning map and text amendment may be initiated by the Council, the Planning
   Commission, the Director, a property owner(s) in the municipality, or a person authorized in writing
   by the property owner(s).
B. Authority. The Council shall take formal action on requests for zoning map and text amendments
   after receiving a recommendation from the Planning Commission.
C. Procedure.


Page 66 of 262
   1. Filing of Application
       a. All zoning map or text amendment applications shall be filed with the Director or Designee
           in accordance with the requirements of Chapter 19.164. The Director or Designee shall
           forward the application to the Planning Commission for further review and
           recommendation no later than ninety (90) days from the date the application is deemed
           complete.
       b. Disapproval of an application to amend the zoning map shall preclude the filing of another
           application to amend the zoning map to reclassify the same parcel of property, or any
           portion thereof to the same zone classification, or if the application is for a commercial
           classification to the same or any other commercial classification, within one year of the date
           of the final disapproval of the application unless the council finds that there has been a
           substantial change in the circumstances or sufficient new evidence since the disapproval of
           the application to merit consideration of a second application within the one-year time
           period.
   2. Notice. The Director or designee shall provide notice of proposed zoning map or text
       amendments in accordance with Utah Code Section 10-9a-205. An “adjacent property owner”
       under this section of State law is an owner of property located within three-hundred feet (300’)
       feet of land that is directly affected by the land use ordinance change.
   3. Action by Planning Commission.
       a. The Planning Commission shall consider a proposed zoning map or text amendment in a
           public hearing.
       b. After the close of the public hearing, the Planning Commission may evaluate the application
           against the applicable standards in subsection D below and shall make a recommendation to
           the Council for approval, modified approval, or denial.
   4. Action by Council
       a. The Council shall consider the application within forty-five (45) days of receiving a
           recommendation from the Planning Commission.
       b. After considering the recommendation of the Planning Commission at a public meeting, the
           Council may approve, deny, alter, or remand for further review and consideration any
           application.
D. Approval Standards. Table 19.16-2: Guidelines for Zoning Map and Text Amendments. The Planning
   Commission recommendation and the Council decision on any zoning map or text amendment are
   matters of legislative discretion. In making a recommendation and decision, the Planning
   Commission and the Council, respectively, may consider one or more of the factors in Table 19.16-2
   below.




Page 67 of 262
Table 19.16-2: GUIDELINEs for CONSIDERING Zoning MAP & TEXT Amendments



FACTORS                                                                    MAP              TEXT
                                                                           AMENDMEN         AMENDMEN
                                                                           TS               TS
1. The proposed amendment is compatible with the Adopted General
                                                                           X                X
Plan.
2. The proposed amendment promotes the public health, safety and
                                                                           X                X
welfare.
3. The proposed amendment is a more suitable zoning classification for
                                                                           X
the property than the current classification.
4. The proposed amendment is compatible with the intent and general
                                                                           X                X
purposes of this Ordinance.
5. The proposed amendment corrects an error or omission, adds
                                                                           X                X
clarification to existing requirements, or reflects a change in policy.
6. The proposed amendment benefits the citizens of the Municipality
                                                                           X                X
as a whole.
7. The proposed amendment does not create a significant number of
                                                                           X                X
nonconformities.
8. The proposed amendment is compatible with the trend of
                                                                           X
development, if any, in the general area of the property in question.


E. Appeals. Any person adversely affected by a zoning amendment decision of the Council may appeal
   the decision to the 3rd District Court of Salt Lake County as provided for in Section 10-9a-801 of the
   Utah Code, as amended.

                                   Chapter 19.18 (Reserved)
                 Chapter 19.20 Variance, Exceptions, and Appeals
19.20.010 – Variances.
A. Initiation.
   1. A property owner or other person expressly authorized in writing by the property owner may
        apply for a variance for that property in those circumstances where the requirements of this
        Ordinance may create unnecessary hardship or practical difficulty as set forth in Subsection D
        below and Section 10-9a-702 of the Utah Code.
   2. The Land Use Hearing Officer hears all applications for a variance.
B. Procedure.


Page 68 of 262
   1. All applications shall be filed with the Director in accordance with the requirements of Chapter
       19.14.
   2. Approval by the Land Use Hearing Officer
       a. The Land Use Hearing Officer shall consider a proposed variance in a public meeting.
       b. Based upon the evidence presented at the public meeting, the Land Use Hearing Officer
           shall make a decision on the variance, evaluating the application in accordance with the
           standards in Subsection D below.
       c. The Land Use Hearing Officer may take action on applications for variances in the form of
           approval, modified approval, or denial.
C. Conditions and Restrictions.
   1. When approving a variance, the Land Use Hearing Officer may impose such conditions and
       restrictions upon the location, construction, design and use of the property, as appropriate to
       mitigate impacts and protect the public interest and adjacent property in recognition of
       19.20.010.D.5 (below). The terms of relief granted, including any conditions or restrictions, shall
       be specifically set forth in the approval.
   2. The Land Use Hearing Officer may grant a variance less than that requested when the record
       supports the applicant’s right to some relief, but not to the entire relief requested.
   3. Use variances are prohibited.
D. Approval Standards. The Land Use Hearing Officer may grant a variance only if all of the following
   standards are met. The applicant shall bear the burden of proving that all the conditions justifying a
   variance have been met.
   1. Literal enforcement of this Ordinance would cause an unreasonable hardship for the applicant
       that is not necessary to carry out the general purpose of this Ordinance. In determining whether
       or not enforcement of this Ordinance would cause unreasonable hardship, the Land Use Hearing
       Officer shall find all of the following:
       a. The alleged hardship is located on or associated with the property for which the variance is
           sought;
       b. The alleged hardship comes from circumstances peculiar to the property, not from
           conditions that are general to the neighborhood; and
       c. The alleged hardship is not self-imposed (including pre-existing conditions created by
           previous property owners) or economic.
   2. There are special circumstances attached to the property that do not generally apply to other
       properties in the same zone. In determining that there are special circumstances attached to the
       property, the Land Use Hearing Officer must find that:
       a. The special circumstances relate to the alleged hardship; and
       b. The special circumstances deprive the property of privileges granted to other properties in
           the same zone.
       c. Granting the variance is essential to the enjoyment of a substantial property right possessed
           by other property in the same zone.
       d. The variance will not substantially affect the policies of the General Plan and will not be
           contrary to the public interest.
       e. The purpose and intent of this Ordinance is observed, and substantial justice done.
E. Appeals. Any person adversely affected by a variance decision of the Land Use Hearing Officer may
   appeal the decision to the 3rd District Court of Salt Lake County.


Page 69 of 262
F. Any variance granted shall run with the land.
19.20.020 – Special Exceptions.
A. Initiation and Authority.
   1. A property owner or other person expressly authorized in writing by the property owner may
        file for any special exception identified in Subsection B for that property.
   2. The Land Use Hearing Officer, Planning Commission, or Director, as appropriate, will take formal
        action on these requests.
B. Procedure.
   1. Submittal of Application. All applications shall be filed in accordance with the requirements of
        Chapter 19.16.
   2. Special Exceptions Approved by the Land Use Hearing Officer.
        a. The Land Use Hearing Officer may consider approval of the following special exceptions:
             (1) Where a zone boundary line divides a lot in single ownership, extension of a use allowed
                  on either portion of the lot a maximum of 50 feet into the other portion of the lot.
             (2) The enlargement of or addition to a noncomplying structure or a structure occupied by
                  a nonconforming use.
             (3) The relocation of a noncomplying structure or a nonconforming use to another portion
                  of the lot.
             (4) The reconstruction on a lot of a noncomplying structure or a structure occupied by a
                  nonconforming use.
        b. The Land Use Hearing Officer shall consider a proposed special exception in a public
             meeting.
        c. During or after the close of the public meeting, the Land Use Hearing Officer may take
             action in the form of approval, modified approval or denial.
        d. Based upon the evidence presented at the meeting, the Land Use Hearing Officer shall
             evaluate the application to determine that the exception is consistent with the purposes of
             this Ordinance and will not be detrimental to the health, safety or general welfare of
             persons residing or working, or injurious to property in the vicinity
   3. Special Exceptions Approved by the Planning Commission.
        a. The Planning Commission may consider approval of the following special exceptions:
             (1) An exception to allow the continuation of an existing use that is in violation of the
                  provisions of this Ordinance, pursuant to Chapter 19.06.
        b. The Planning Commission shall consider a proposed special exception in a public meeting.
        c. Having heard the matter at a public meeting, the Planning Commission may take action in
             the form of approval, modified approval or denial on applications for a special exception.
   4. Special Exceptions Approved by the Director. Whenever a structure is in violation of the height
        or yard provisions of this Ordinance, the owner may file an application with the Director to have
        the structure declared noncomplying.
C. Conditions. The Land Use Hearing Officer or Planning Commission may impose such conditions and
   restrictions upon the location, construction, design or use of the property, as necessary or
   appropriate to protect the public interest and adjacent property.
D. Appeals.




Page 70 of 262
    1. Any person adversely affected by a decision of the Director or the Planning Commission
       regarding a special exception may appeal that decision to the Land Use Hearing Officer.
    2. Any person adversely affected by a decision of the Land Use Hearing Officer regarding a special
       exception may appeal that decision to the 3rd District Court of Salt Lake County.
19.20.030 – Administrative Appeals.
A. Initiation.
   1. Any person adversely affected by a decision made by the Director, Planning Commission or
        Council in administering or interpreting this Ordinance, may appeal such decision
        (“administrative appeal”). An appeal shall be filed in writing within 10 days of the decision,
        alleging how such action is arbitrary, capricious or illegal.
   2. The Land Use Hearing Officer shall hear all appeals of such decisions by the Director, Planning
        Commission, or Council administering or interpreting this Ordinance.
B. Procedure.
   1. Zoning appeals shall be considered in a public meeting.
   2. Appeals may not be used to waive or modify the terms or requirements of the zoning ordinance
        unless those terms or requirements are applied in a manner that is arbitrary, capricious or
        illegal.
   3. The person filing the appeal has the burden of proving that the decision was arbitrary,
        capricious or illegal.
   4. If there is a record, the Land Use Hearing Officer’s review is limited to the record provided by
        the Director. The Land Use Hearing Officer shall not accept or consider any evidence outside the
        record unless that evidence was offered to and improperly excluded by the Council, the
        Planning Commission, or the Director. If there is no record, the Land Use Hearing Officer may
        call witnesses and take evidence.
   5. After review of the record and written and oral argument from both parties, the Land Use
        Hearing Officer shall render a decision.
   6. The Land Use Hearing Officer shall affirm the decision of the Council, the Planning Commission,
        or the Director, unless the Land Use Hearing Officer finds that decision was arbitrary, capricious
        or illegal.
   7. If the decision of the Council, the Planning Commission, or the Director is determined to be
        arbitrary, capricious or illegal, the Land Use Hearing Officer may reverse, alter or remand the
        decision to the original decision-making body for further review and consideration of the action
        taken.
C. Stay of Proceedings. The filing of a zoning appeal does not automatically stay the decision. However,
   the Land Use Hearing Officer has the authority to stay the decision while the appeal is pending.
19.20.040 – Conditions Precedent to Judicial Review.
A. As provided by Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-701(4), an adversely affected party of a land use
   decision shall present to the applicable appeal authority every theory of relief that it can raise in
   district court.
B. Decisions regarding whether or not to amend the number, shape, boundaries, or area of any zoning
   district; any regulation of or within the zoning district; or any other provision of the development
   code may be appealed directly to the district court.


Page 71 of 262
C. An adversely affected party may not appeal to the district court a decision of the planning
   commission under subsection B of this section. Only final decisions of the municipal council
   regarding amendments to the zoning ordinance of the municipality (title 19 of this code) or other
   provisions of the development code may be appealed to the district court.
D. An adversely affected party shall have thirty (30) days to appeal a final decision of the municipal
   council under subsection 19.16.080 of this title to the district court.
19.20.050 - Use Violation Declared Legal Through Special Exception.
A. Whenever land or a structure is used in violation of this Ordinance, the owner may file an
   application with the Planning Commission to have the use declared legal through special exception.
   The Planning Commission may approve the application only when the evidence establishes all of the
   following:
   1. The use exists on the property at the time of the application and has been in continuous
        violation of this Ordinance for a period exceeding 10 years. The applicant is responsible to
        produce evidence in support of this finding.
   2. No complaint has been made to the Development Services Division concerning the violation for
        10 consecutive years during which the violation existed.
   3. Continuation of the use will not have a detrimental effect on the health, safety or welfare of
        persons or property in the vicinity.
B. The Planning Commission may consider any relevant evidence, including but not limited to:
   1. Documents that are part of the public record, such as tax appraisals, utility records, aerial
        photographs, building permits, etc.
   2. Documentation from third parties, such as affidavits, photographs, etc.
   3. Documentation from current or past property owners, such as tax records, rental/lease
        agreements, appraisal records, etc.
C. In approving an application, the Planning Commission may set any conditions it deems necessary for
   protection of adjacent properties or the public welfare including provisions limiting the period of
   time the use may continue.
D. Any person has the right to appeal a decision of the Planning Commission to the Land Use Hearing
   Officer. Appellants shall follow the appeal procedures set forth in this Ordinance.
E. Land use violations not declared legal by the Planning Commission under this section are subject to
   the enforcement provisions of chapter 19.08.

                         Chapter 19.22 Parks and Open Space
19.22.10 – Purpose of Provisions.
A. The purposes of the Parks and Recreation Zone are to preserve and enhance public and private open
   space, natural areas, and habitats, and improved park and recreational areas.
   1. These Zones provide opportunities for active and passive outdoor recreation;
   2. provide contrasts to and relief from the built environment;
   3. preserve scenic qualities and viewsheds;
   4. protect sensitive or fragile environmental areas such as wetlands, steep slopes, ridge lines,
       meadows, and stream corridors;
   5. encourage sustainability and conservation; and



Page 72 of 262
    6. provide transportation connections for people walking, biking, scootering, or using other forms
       of active transportation.
19.22.020 – Establishment of Parks and Recreation Zone.
To anticipate and respond to the changing needs the municipality and implement greenway, natural
resource preservation, and health and recreation concepts included in the adopted General Plan, the
following zone is established:
A. Parks and Recreation Zone (PR): The PR Zone is intended for improved parks, recreational areas, and
   other public and private open spaces which can accommodate human use and visitation.
   Encouraged uses in this Zone include public parks, multi-use trails, ball fields, special uses such as
   mobile food carts and festivals, and landscaping and equipment sheds.
19.22.030 – Schedule of Permitted Uses.
A. Schedule of Permitted Uses. The specific uses listed in the following schedule are permitted in the
   zones as indicated, subject to the general provisions, special conditions, additional restrictions, and
   exceptions set forth in this Title. Special use conditions can be found in Chapter 19.42 Specific Use
   Standards for permanent uses and Chapter 19.44 for temporary uses.
B. Procedure for Multiple Uses (Combination of Uses). If a development proposal involves a
   combination of uses other than accessory uses as identified in Table 19.22.030, the more restrictive
   provisions of this Title shall apply. For example, if a portion of a development is subject to
   Conditional Use (“C”) approval and the other portion is subject only to Permitted Use (“P) review,
   the entire development is reviewed and approved by the Conditional Use process.
C. Abbreviations. The abbreviations used in the schedule mean:
   1. P = Permitted Use. This use is allowed in the zone but may be subject to additional restrictions
       and approval processes as provided in this Title.
   2. C = Conditional Use. This use is conditional because of the unique characteristics or potential
       impacts on the municipality, surrounding neighbors, or adjacent uses, incompatibility in some
       areas of the zone, or compatibility only if special provisions or conditions are required to
       mitigate the detrimental impacts of the use. The Planning Commission is the land use authority
       for uses with this designation.
   3. X = Prohibited Use. This use is prohibited in this zone. Any use not specifically identified in Table
       19.22.030 is prohibited in this zone.
     Table 19.22.030 – Schedule of Permitted Uses
     Use Categories                                                                 Zone
     AGRICULTURAL:                                                                   PR
     Agricultural Building                                                            P
     Agriculture                                                                      P
     Agritourism                                                                      C
     Apiary                                                                           P
     Aviary                                                                           P


Page 73 of 262
     RESIDENTIAL USES:
                              No residential uses are permitted in these zones.
     RETAIL AND SERVICES:
     Child Care                                                                    P
     FOOD AND DRINK:
     Food Truck / Mobile Restaurant / Food Cart                                    P
     RECREATIONAL:
     Commercial Recreation                                                         P
     Multi-use Trail, Paved                                                        P
     Multi-use Trail, Unpaved                                                      P
     Open Space                                                                    P
     Private, Non-Profit Recreational Grounds and Facilities                       P
     Recreation Facility - Private, Public, or Commercial                          P
     Stable, Public                                                                P
     Trailhead Infrastructure, Large Scale: paved parking,
     restrooms, wayfinding and interpretive signage, trash                         P
     receptacles, other improvements
     Trailhead Infrastructure, Small Scale: unpaved parking (10
                                                                                   P
     or less spaces), pit toilet, wooden trail signage.
     INDUSTRIAL:
                                No industrial uses are permitted in these zones.
     INSTITUTIONAL USES:
     Church, Synagogue, Mosque, Temple, Cathedral, or Other
                                                                                   P
     Religious Buildings
     Cemetery                                                                      P
     Community Garden                                                              P
     Micromobility Support Infrastructure                                          P
     Public Park                                                                   P
     Pavilion                                                                      P
     Micro-Park                                                                    P
     Public Use                                                                    P
     Solar Energy System, Accessory                                                P


Page 74 of 262
     Wind Energy System, Accessory                                                 P
     SPECIALTY:
     Park and Ride                                                                 P
     ACCESSORY USES:
     Sidewalk Displays and Cafes                                                   P


19.22.040 – Development Standards.
Development in the PR zone shall comply with the development standards of Table 19.22.040 and all
other applicable standards in this Title.
Table 19.22.040: Development Standards for Primary Buildings
Standard                                                                      PR
Minimum Lot Size (in square feet)                                             NA
Minimum Frontage (in feet)                           Parks and Recreation Zone shall have a minimum
                                                             frontage of 30’ on a public street.
Minimum Lot Width (in feet)                                                   NA
Maximum Building Height (in feet) A                   For lot areas of 5 acres or greater, the maximum
                                                                             is 45’.
                                                      For lot areas smaller than 5 acres, the maximum
                                                                            is 35’.
                                                           For micro-parks, the maximum is 18’.
Minimum Floor Area Ratio                                                      NA
Maximum Building Lot Coverage                                              30%


A. In the PR Zone, if necessary to ensure protection of public health, safety, or welfare, recreation
   equipment heights are permitted up to eighty feet (80’). For example, nets around batting cages or
   fences at driving ranges may exceed thirty-five feet (35’) as necessary and as approved by the
   Director or Designee.


19.22.050 – Required Yards and Setbacks.
Development in the PR Zone shall comply with the yard and setback standards shown in Table 19.22.060
and all other applicable standards in this Title.
 Table 1 19.22.050: Yards and Setbacks for Primary Buildings
 Standard                                                                PR



Page 75 of 262
 Front Yard Setback (in feet)                                         Minimum: 20
                                                                      Maximum: NA
 Side Yard Setback – Interior Lots (in feet)                          Minimum: 20
                                                                      Maximum: NA
 Side Yard Setback – Corner Lots (in feet)                            Minimum: 20
                                                                      Maximum: NA
 Rear Yard Setback (in feet)                                          Minimum: 20
                                                                      Maximum: NA
 Minimum Distance between Primary and
                                                                            10
 Accessory Buildings (in feet)


 Table 2 19.22.050: Yards and Setbacks for Accessory Buildings, not including pavilions.
 Standard                                                                   PR
 Front Yard Setback (in feet)                                               10
 Side Yard Setback – Interior Lots (in feet)                                 5
 Side Yard Setback – Corner Lots (in feet)                                   5
 Rear Yard Setback (in feet)                                                 5
 Minimum Distance between Primary and
                                                                            10
 Accessory Buildings (in feet)


    A. Pavilions in the PR zone shall be setback a minimum of one (1) foot from the property line.


19.22.060 – Height Exceptions.
Exceptions to the building heights specified in Table 19.22.050 apply, in accordance with 19.46.
19.22.070 – Parking Requirements.
A. In addition to the requirements in 19.48 the following shall apply in the PR zone:

    1. Landscaped Strips. All parking areas for a commercial, institutional, or other public use that are
       adjacent to a public street shall have a landscaped strip of at least ten feet (10’) placed between
       the sidewalk and the parking area. This strip shall contain drought-resistant vegetation, and at
       least one native or drought-friendly tree is placed every fifty feet (50’).
    2. Pedestrian Access. Any parking lot with an area greater than twenty-thousand square feet
       (20,000 sq ft) shall provide dedicated ADA-compliant walkways, at least six feet (6’) wide, for
       pedestrians navigating from their vehicles to a building or park entrance. At a minimum,
       walkways is placed through the center of the parking area and in front of the building(s) to serve

Page 76 of 262
        as pedestrian access to the area. Walkways is landscaped with trees at least every fifty feet
        (50’). Walkways is easily accessed from designated ADA parking stalls.
B. The following parking requirements shall apply to micro-parks in the PR Zone:
   3.1. Up to five (5) parking stalls for a micro-park may be provided without landscaping requirements.
        Any parking facilities created shall meet the requirements in 19.48.030.
19.22.080 – Landscaping and Screening Standards. All landscaping and screening standards found in
Chapter 19.50 shall apply in the PR Zone. In addition, the following fencing standards shall apply:
A. Fencing. Fencing may be allowed in the PR Zone if desirable to establish sense of privacy, protect
   children and pets, provide a buffer from street traffic, or enhance property appearance. The
   following standards apply to fencing in the PR Zone:
B. Height. Fences may be six feet (6’) tall at the property line. Fences taller than six feet (6’) shall be set
   back from the property line an additional foot for each foot of fence over six feet (6’).
C. Materials. Fences in the PR Zone is designed to enhance the visual appearance of the area. Chain
   link fencing is prohibited except if necessary to provide a perimeter or safety backing for
   recreational fields, as determined by the Director or Designee.
19.22.090 – Lighting Standards. All uses and developments in the PR Zone shall comply with the
following lighting standards, in addition to any found in other Chapters of this Title:
A. Lighting is located and installed so as to minimize any adverse impact on the natural environment,
   including avoiding lighting in critical habitat areas or if it may pose traffic safety problems.
B. All lighting is fully shielded to eliminate glare, prevent light trespass onto neighboring properties,
   and protect views of the night sky.
C. Lights for outdoor recreation equipment and infrastructure may be permitted up to eighty feet (80’)
   in height, provided they are set back from any residential use at least fifty feet (50’). Such lights shall
   be directed in a manner that minimizes light trespass onto adjacent properties.
Figure 19.22.100 – Types of Lighting




Page 77 of 262
                                   Chapter 19.24 (Reserved)
                             Chapter 19.26 Agricultural Zones
19.26.010 - Purpose of Provisions.
The purpose of the agricultural zones to provide limited residential and agricultural opportunities in the
same zone. To this end, the A zones are intended to include activities normally related to agricultural
uses and to protect the zone from the intrusion of uses detrimental to the continuance of agricultural
activity.
19.26.020 - Agricultural Zones.
A. To anticipate and respond to the changing needs the municipality and preserve historical uses long
   established in the community and identified in the adopted General Plan, the following zone(s) are
   established:
   1. A-1 Agricultural Zone. Promotes the development of small residential in association with small
       agricultural uses like gardens, pastures, horses, and other animals for family food production.
   2. A-2 Agricultural Zone. Promotes the development of small residential in association with small
       agricultural uses like gardens, pastures, horses, and other animals for family food
       productionmore intense agricultural uses like the keeping and raising of farm animals, including
       horses, and small agricultural businesses as well as providing some single-family housing on lots.
19.26.030 – Schedule of Permitted Uses.
A. Schedule of Permitted Uses. The specific uses listed in the following schedule are permitted in the
   zones as indicated, subject to the general provisions, special conditions, additional restrictions, and
   exceptions set forth in this Title. Special use conditions can be found in Chapter 19.42 Specific Use
   Standards for permanent uses and Chapter 19.44 for temporary uses.
B. Procedure for Multiple Uses (Combination of Uses). If a development proposal involves a
   combination of uses other than accessory uses as identified in Table 19.26.030, the more restrictive
   provisions of this Title shall apply. For example, if a portion of a development is subject to
   Conditional Use (“C”) approval and the other portion is subject only to Permitted Use (“P) review,
   the entire development is reviewed and approved by the Conditional Use process.
C. Abbreviations. The abbreviations used in the schedule mean:
   1. P = Permitted Use. This use is allowed in the zone but may be subject to additional restrictions
       and approval processes as provided in this Title.
   2. C = Conditional Use. This use is conditional because of the unique characteristics or potential
       impacts on the municipality, surrounding neighbors, or adjacent uses, incompatibility in some
       areas of the zone, or compatibility only if special provisions or conditions are required to
       mitigate the detrimental impacts of the use. The Planning Commission is the land use authority
       for uses with this designation.
   3. X = Prohibited Use. This use is prohibited in this zone. Any use not specifically identified in Table
       19.26.030 is prohibited in this zone.


Table 19.26.030 – Schedule of Permitted Uses


Page 78 of 262
Use Categories                                                            Zones
AGRICULTURAL:                                                      A-12           A-2
Agriculture                                                         P             P
Agricultural Building subject to Accessory Building standards of    P             P
this Chapter
Animals and Fowl for Family Food Production, Existing               P             P
Animal Hospital                                                     P             P
Animal Right, New                                                   P             P
Apiary                                                              X             P
Aviary                                                              X             P
Egg Candling and Sales                                              X             P
Fertilizer and Soil Conditioner manufacturing, processing and       X             P
sales
Gardening for Personal Use                                          P             P
Manure spreading, processing, drying, sales                         X             P
Residential Keeping of Chickens or Ducks or Domestic Fowl           P             P
Stable, Private                                                     P             P
Stable, Public                                                      P             P
RESIDENTIAL:
Dwelling, Single-Family                                             P             P
Dwelling, Two-Family                                                P             P
Planned Unit Development                                            C             C
Residential Facility for Elderly Persons                            P             P
Residential Facility for Persons with a Disability Subject to       P             P
Chapter 19.42
ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory Buildings, Garages, Carports, and Structures subject      P             P
to 19.28.050
Accessory Dwelling Unit, Internal subject to 19.15                  P             P
Home Daycare/Preschool subject to Chapter 19.42                     P             P
Home Business subject to Chapter 19.42                              P             P



Page 79 of 262
Household Pets                                                         P                   P
COMMERCIAL:
Bed and Breakfast Homestay                                             P                   P
Daycare/Preschool Center                                               P                   P
Dog breeding establishment; dog kennel; dog pound; dog                 X                   P
training school
Nursery and Greenhouse                                                 P                   P
Riding Academy                                                         P                   P
Veterinary Clinic                                                      X                   P
INSTITUTIONAL:
Parks/Open Space                                                       P                   P
Utilities, Major                                                       P                   P
Utilities, Minor                                                       P                   P
School, Public                                                         P                   P
School, Private/Charter                                                P                   P
Religious Institutions and Uses                                        P                   P
OTHER USES:
Temporary Buildings for Uses Incidental to Construction Work           P                   P


19.26.040 - Lot and Area Standards
Development in the A-1 or A-2 zones shall comply with the development standards of Table 19.26.040
and all other applicable standards in this Title.
Table 19.26.040 Lot and Area Standards
Zone             Minimum Lot Area Minimum Lot Width    Maximum Lot Coverage      Density
                                                       (Primary Buildings)
A-1              10,000 Sq Ft     65 Feet                        30%             1 unit per 10,000 Sq
                                                                                 Ft
A-2              1 Acre           100 Feet                     70%30%            1 unit per acre


19.26.050 - Bulk and Yard Requirements.
Development in the A-1 or A-2 zones shall comply with the development standards of Table 19.26.050
and all other applicable standards in this Title.


Page 80 of 262
Table 19.26.050 Bulk and Yard Requirements
Zone             Front Yard          Side Yard          Side Yard for Corner Lots Side Rear Yard
                                                        Yard Faces the Street
A-1              30 Feet             8 Feet             20 feet                        30 Feet
A-2              30 Feet             10 Feet            20 Feet                        30 Feet


19.26.060 - Building Height.
A. Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Title, no building or structure may exceed the
   following height:
   1. Thirty-five feet (35’);
   2. A dwelling structure may not contain less than one story.
19.26.070 - Accessory Structure Development Standards.
A. Area. Accessory Structures may not exceed eight hundred square feet (800 sq. ft.) on lots under
   one-half acre or one thousand two hundred square feet (1,200 sq. ft.) on lots one-half acre or
   larger. Accessory structures may not exceed fourteen thousand square feet (14,000 Sq. Ft.) per
   accessory structure on the lot.
B. Accessory Structure Location and Setbacks.
   1. Shall be located in the side or rear yard and six feet (6’) away from the dwelling. No accessory
         building may be located within the required front yard setback or between the main building
         and a street.
   2. Shall be located at least one foot (1’) from an interior side property line. If the accessory building
         is located in a side yard between two existing main buildings, the accessory building must be
         located between at least five feet (5’) from the property line.
   3. Shall be twenty feet (20’) from a street facing side property line. No accessory building may be
         located between the main building and a street.
   4. Shall be located at least one foot (1’) from the rear property line, except if the rear yard is
         adjacent to the side yard of an adjacent lot, the minimum setback shall be ten feet (10’) from
         the adjoining side yard.
C. Accessory Structure Height. A building which is accessory to a single-family dwelling may not exceed
   twenty thirty-five feet (35’) in height. For each foot (1’) of height over fourteen feet (14’), accessory
   buildings shall be set back from the side and rear property lines an additional foot until the setback
   is fifteen feet (15’) to allow a maximum height of twenty feet (20’).
19.26.080 - Lot Coverage.
A. No combination of buildings, including accessory buildings and other structures, may not cover
   more than thirty percent (30%) in the A-1 zone and seventy percent (70%) in the A-2 zone forty
   percent (40%) of the area of the lot or parcel of land.
B. No accessory building or group of accessory buildings may not cover more than twenty-five percent
   (25%) of the rear yard.




Page 81 of 262
C. Concrete, asphalt, and other impervious surfaces may not cover more than fifty percent (50%) of the
   any yard area between a structure and a property line. This includes both the required setback area
   and any other yard area between the main building and the front property boundary.




Page 82 of 262
                   Chapter 19.28 Single-Family Residential Zones
19.28.010 - Purpose of provisions.
The purpose of the R-1 zones is to establish single-family neighborhoods which provide persons who
reside therein a comfortable, healthy, safe and pleasant environment.
19.28.020 – Single-Family Residential Zones.
A. To continue to preserve historical single-family residential neighborhoods in the community and
   identified in the adopted General Plan, the following zone(s) are established:
   1. R-1-8 Residential Single-Family. Promotes the development of small residential in association
       with small agricultural uses like gardens, pastures, horses, and other animals for family food
       production.
   2. R-1-10 Residential Single-Family. Promotes the development of small residential in association
       with small agricultural uses like gardens, pastures, horses, and other animals for family food
       production.
   3. R-1-15 Residential Single-Family. Promotes the development of small residential in association
       with small agricultural uses like gardens, pastures, horses, and other animals for family food
       production.
   4. R-1-21 Residential Single-Family. Promotes the development of small residential in association
       with small agricultural uses like gardens, pastures, horses, and other animals for family food
       production.
   5. R-1-43 Residential Single-Family. Promotes the development of small residential in association
       with small agricultural uses like gardens, pastures, horses, and other animals for family food
       production.
19.28.030 – Schedule of Permitted Uses.
A. Schedule of Permitted Uses. The specific uses listed in the following schedule are permitted in the
   zones as indicated, subject to the general provisions, special conditions, additional restrictions, and
   exceptions set forth in this Title. Special use conditions can be found in Chapter 19.42 Specific Use
   Standards for permanent uses and Chapter 19.44 for temporary uses.
B. Procedure for Multiple Uses (Combination of Uses). If a development proposal involves a
   combination of uses other than accessory uses as identified in Table 19.28.030, the more restrictive
   provisions of this Title shall apply. For example, if a portion of a development is subject to
   Conditional Use (“C”) approval and the other portion is subject only to Permitted Use (“P) review,
   the entire development shall be reviewed and approved by the Conditional Use process.
C. Abbreviations. The abbreviations used in the schedule mean:
   1. P = Permitted Use. This use is allowed in the zone but may be subject to additional restrictions
       and approval processes as provided in this Title.
   2. C = Conditional Use. This use is conditional because of the unique characteristics or potential
       impacts on the municipality, surrounding neighbors, or adjacent uses, incompatibility in some
       areas of the zone, or compatibility only if special provisions or conditions are required to
       mitigate the detrimental impacts of the use. The Planning Commission is the land use authority
       for uses with this designation.



Page 83 of 262
   3. X = Prohibited Use. This use is prohibited in this zone. Any use not specifically identified in Table
      19.28.030 is prohibited in this zone.


 Table 19.28.020 - Schedule of Permitted Uses
 Use Categories                       R-1-8       R-1-10          R-1-15           R-1-21            R-1-43
 RESIDENTIAL:
 Dwelling, Single Family              P           P               P                P                 P
 Dwelling, Manufactured Home          P           P               P                P                 P
 Planned Unit Development
                                      C           C               C                C                 C
 Subject to Chapter 19.18
 Residential facilities for persons
                                      P           P               P                P                 P
 with a disability
                                      R-1-8       R-1-10          R-1-15           R-1-21            R-1-43
 ACCESSORY USES:

 Accessory Uses and Buildings         P           P               P                P                 P
 Subject to Sections 19.28.050
 Accessory Dwelling Unit,
 Internal, subject to Section         P           XP              XP               XP                XP
 19.42
 Home Occupations, subject to
                                      P           P               P                P                 P
 chapter 19.42
 Home Day Care/Preschool,
                                      P           P               P                P                 P
 subject to Section 19.42
 Household Pets, not including
                                      P           P               P                P                 P
 kennels
                                      R-1-8       R-1-10          R-1-15           R-1-21            R-1-43
 INSTITUTIONAL USES:
 Parks/Open Space                     P           P               P                 P                 P
 Public and Quasi Public              P           P               P                P                 P
 Public Utilities, Major              C           C               C                 C                 C
 Public Utilities, Minor              P           P               P                 P                 P
 Religious Institutions and Uses      P           P               P                P                 P
 Schools, Public                      P           P               P                P                 P


Page 84 of 262
 Schools, Private/Charter              C            C               C                 C               C
                                       R-1-8        R-1-10          R-1-15            R-1-21          R-1-43
 OTHER USES:
 Apiary                                X             X               P                P               P
 Gardening for personal use            P            P               P                 P               P
 Animals and Fowl for family food
 production established prior to
                                       X             X               X                P               P
 (The date of the adoption of this
 ordinance)
 Animal Rights, one animal unit
                                       X            X               X                 P               P
 per 10, 000 square feet
 Bed and Breakfast Inn                 X             X               X                C               C
 Residential Keeping of Chickens
 or Ducks or Domestic Fowl             C             C               P                 P                 P
 subject to Chapter 19.42
 Child Care, Residential and
                                       C            C               C                 C               C
 Licensed Family
 Private, nonprofit recreational
                                       C            C               C                 C               C
 grounds and facilities
 Sportsmen’s Kennel (one-acre
                                       X            X               C                 C               C
 minimum lot area)
 Temporary Construction Office
 associate with a permitted            C            C               C                 C               C
 development project


19.28.030 - Lot area, width and maximum density.
A.        The minimum lot area and width requirements and maximum density are as follows:
 Table 19.28.030 - Lot Area, Width and Yard Requirements
 Zone        Minimum Lot Area        Minimum Lot Width                                         Density
 R-1-8       8,000 Square Feet       65 feet at a distance 25 feet from the front lot line     4.5 Units per acre
 R-1-10      10,000 Square Feet      80 feet at a distance 30 feet from the front lot line     4.0 Units per acre
 R-1-15      15,000 Square Feet      80 feet at a distance 30 feet from the front lot line     2.5 Units per acre
 R-1-21      21,7800 Square Feet     100 feet at a distance 30 feet from the front lot line    2.0 Units per acre
 R-1-43      43,560 Square Feet      100 feet at a distance 30 feet from the front lot line    1.0 Units per acre


Page 85 of 262
B. The allowable density for planned unit developments shall be determined by the Planning
Commission on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the following factors: recommendations of
county and non-county agencies; site constraints; compatibility with nearby land uses; and the
provisions of the applicable general plan. Notwithstanding the above, the Planning Commission may not
approve a planned unit development with density higher than the that enumerated in Table 19.28.030.
19.28.040 – Primary Structure Development Standards.
The following development standards apply to all primary residential and non-residential structures.
A. Required Yards:
   1. Dwellings: The minimum yard requirements for a Primary Residential Dwelling are as follows:
         Table 19.28.040 A1 - Primary Residential Dwelling Setbacks
                                                         Side Yard,            Side Yard,
         Zone                             Front Yard     Interior              Corner Lot       Rear Yard
                                                         8 Feet or 11/5
         R-1-8                            25 Feet        split                 20 Feet          25 Feet
         R-1-10, R-1-15, R-1-21           30 Feet        10 Feet               20 Feet          30 Feet
         R-1-43                           30 Feet        15 Feet               20 Feet          30 Feet
       a. Unless attached to a dwelling on an adjacent lot.
       b. Five (5) feet on one side and 11 feet on the garage or driveway side.
       c. Homes with a garage existing prior to the adoption of this ordinance may maintain a 15’ rear
           setback.
    2. The minimum yard requirements for a main building other than residential are as follows:
         Table 19.28.040 A2. - Non-Residential Main Building Setbacks
         Zone                                  Front Yard          Side Yard        Rear Yard
         R-1-8                                 25 Feet             20 Feet          25 Feet
         R-1-10, R-1-15, R-1-21, R-1-43        30 Feet             20 Feet          30 Feet


    1. Projections into Required Yards. The following structures may be erected on or projected into
       any required yard:
       a. Fences and walls that conform with this code.
       b. Landscape elements including trees, shrubs and other plants.
       c. Necessary appurtenances for utility services associated with minor public utilities.
       d. Planter boxes or masonry planters not exceeding twenty-four inches (24”) in height.
       e. Cornices, eaves, belt courses, buttresses and other similar architectural features may project
           into any yard not more than two feet (2’).
       f. Bay windows, cantilevered floors and fireplace structures may project into any yard not
           more than two feet (2’), provided that they are not wider than eight feet (8’) wide.


Page 86 of 262
       g. Porches, door stoops, awnings, fire escapes and stairways may project into an interior side
           yard not more than two-feet (2’) and a front, rear, or corner side yard not more than four-
           feet (4’).
       h. An attached deck may encroach up to four feet (4’) into a rear yard if it is accessed from and
           appurtenant to the ground floor of a residential structure.
       i. Accessory structures subject to section 19.28.050.
E. Building Height. Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Title a building or structure may not
   exceed the following height:
   1. Thirty feet on property if the slope of the original ground surface exceeds fifteen percent, or the
       property is located in the hillside protection zone. The slope shall be determined using a line
       drawn from the highest point of elevation to the lowest point of elevation on the perimeter of a
       box which encircles the foundation line of the building or structure. Said box shall extend for a
       distance of fifteen feet or to the property line, whichever is less, around the foundation line of
       the building or structure. The elevation shall be determined using a certified topographic survey
       with a maximum contour interval of two feet.
   2. Thirty-five feet on properties other than those listed in number one of this subsection.
   3. A dwelling may not contain less than one story. or more than two stories except as part of a
       Planned Unit Development, subject to Chapter 19.18 of this Title.
19.28.050 – Accessory Structure Development Standards.
A. Accessory Structure Location and Setback Requirements. The location and minimum setback
   requirements for an accessory building in a single-family residential zone are as follows:
   1. Shall be located in the side or rear yard and 6 feet away from the dwelling. No accessory
       building may be located within the required front yard or between the main building and a
       street.
   2. Shall be located at least one foot (1’) from an interior side property line, measured from the
       nearest portion of the structure, including eaves and overhangs. When the accessory building is
       located in a side yard between two existing main buildings, the accessory building must be
       located at least 5 feet from the property line.
   3. Shall be twenty feet (20’) from a street facing side property line. No accessory building may be
       located between the main building and a street.
   4. Shall be located at least one foot (1’) from the rear property line, except that if the rear yard is
       adjacent to the side yard of an adjacent lot, the minimum setback shall be ten feet (10’) from
       the adjoining side yard.
   5. No part of any accessory structure may be placed within one foot (1’) of the property line,
       including eaves, cantilevers and other protrusions from the structure.
B. Accessory Structure Height requirements. A building which is accessory to a single-family dwelling
   may not exceed twenty feet (20’) in height. For each foot (1’) of height over fourteen feet (14’),
   accessory buildings shall be set back from the side and rear property lines an additional foot (1’) to
   allow a maximum height of twenty feet (20’).
19.28.060 - Lot Coverage.
A. No combination of buildings, including accessory buildings and other structures, may not cover
   more than forty percent (40%) thirty-three percent (33%) of the area of the lot or parcel of land.


Page 87 of 262
B. An accessory building or group of accessory buildings may not cover more than twenty-five percent
   (25%) of the rear yard.
C. Concrete, asphalt and other impervious surfaces may not cover more than fifty percent (50%) of the
   front or rear yard area between a structure and a property line. This includes both the required
   setback area and any other yard area between the main building and the property boundary. Any lot
   less than 40’ wide may install one driveway that exceeds the fifty percent (50%) impervious surface
   rule as long as that driveway does not exceed twenty feet (20’) in width.
19.28.070 - Fencing Standards.
A. The term "fence" shall include any tangible barrier, latticework, screen, wall, hedge, or continuous
    growth of shrubs or trees with the purpose of, or having the effect of, preventing passage or view
    across the fence line. Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, a fence, wall, screen, hedge or
    other material serving as a fence, may not create a sight distance hazard to vehicular or pedestrian
    traffic as determined by the city engineer.
B. Front Yard/Side Yard. A fence made of materials which are sight obscuring may be built to a
    maximum of three feet (3') in any required front/side yard perimeter. A fence made of materials
    which are not sight obscuring (at least 50 percent open) may be built to a maximum of four feet (4')
    in any required front/side yard. If an existing home is located on the property, the front/side yard
    perimeter is measured from the front property line to the front edge of the existing home. The
    fencing may slope upward to connect with a higher rear yard fence. The length of a sloped fence
    section may not exceed a maximum of ten feet (10').
C. Rear Yard. A fence in a rear yard may be built to a maximum of seven feet (7'). If an existing home is
    located on the property, the rear yard perimeter is measured from the front edge of the existing
    home to the rear property line.
D. Corner Lots. A fence not more than seven feet (7') high may be constructed in the rear yard as
    defined in subsection B, "Rear Yard", of this section adjacent to a public street on a corner lot, if it
    does not obstruct clear view of intersecting streets as defined in subsection D, "Clear Sight Triangle",
    of this section.
E. Clear Sight Triangle. At intersections of alleys and driveways (this includes private driveways and
    adjacent private driveways), the triangle shall be defined by drawing a line between two (2) points
    that are a minimum of ten feet (10') from the intersection along the property lines. At intersections
    of public streets, the triangle shall be defined by drawing a line between the two (2) points that are
    a minimum of forty feet (40') from the intersection along the property lines.
F. Larger Clear Sight Triangle. Larger clear vision triangles may be required if local streets enter arterial
    streets, major collector streets, or parkways, except that "clear vision triangles" need not be
    maintained at signed or signalized intersections in the community center. "Clear vision triangles"
    may also be waived at signed or signalized intersections in neighborhood centers.
G. Grade Differences. If there is a difference in the grade of the properties on either side of a fence,
    wall or other similar structure, the height of the fence shall be measured from the natural grade of
    the property upon which it is located at the base of where the fence will sit.
G.H.     Retaining Walls. If a retaining wall protects a cut below or a fill above the natural grade and is
    located on the line separating lots or properties, such retaining wall may be topped by a fence, wall
    or hedge of the same height that would otherwise be permitted at the location if no retaining wall




Page 88 of 262
     existed. Retaining walls below a fence in the rear yard shall not count toward the maximum height
     calculation for the fence.
H.I. Double Frontage Lots. A fence or wall may be erected in the rear yard of a double frontage lot.
I.J. Fire Hydrants And Mailboxes. Fire hydrants and mailboxes shall be accessible from the public streets
     and may not be enclosed behind fences. Location of the fire hydrant shall be in accordance with the
     uniform fire code.
J.K. Exceptions. The provisions of this section may not apply to certain other fences including tennis
     court backstops or patio enclosures as approved by the Planning Commission, if it is determined that
     the fences do not create a hazard or violation of other sections of the city ordinances, in no case is a
     fence permitted where the fence impedes the flow of water .
L. Sidewalk Setback. If a sidewalk or paved trail exists parallel to the fence, the fence shall be setback
     at least twelve inches (12") from the back of the sidewalk. The area between the fence and sidewalk
     shall be landscaped or covered with mulch, bark, gravel or landscape rocks and include a weed
     barrier.
K.M. Double Fencing. Double fencing is permitted in the rear yard of a property. Fences constructed
     in the rear of yard a property must be within twelve inches (12”) of any adjacent parallel fence.




Page 89 of 262
                 Chapter 19.30 Medium Density Residential Zones
19.30.010 - Purpose of Provisions.
The purpose of the medium-density residential zones is to promote a mix of housing opportunities
combined with some limited commercial opportunities. It is the intent of the medium density housing
zones to be located in walkable and transit-oriented areas that allow for a wide range of amenities and
businesses in close proximity.
19.30.020 - Establishment of Medium Density Residential Zones.
A. To continue to provide opportunities for diverse housing options in the community and allow for the
   option to provide housing that may be qualify as moderate income housing the following zone(s) are
   established:
   1. R-2-6.5 Medium Density Residential. Promotes the development of small residential in
        association with small agricultural uses like gardens, pastures, horses, and other animals for
        family food production.
   2.1. R-2-8 Medium Density Residential Zone. Promotes the development of small residential in
        association with small agricultural uses like gardens, pastures, horses, and other animals for
        family food production.
   3.2. R-2-10 Medium Density Residential Zone. Promotes the development of small residential in
        association with small agricultural uses like gardens, pastures, horses, and other animals for
        family food production.
19.30.030 – Schedule of Permitted Uses.
A. Schedule of Permitted Uses. The specific uses listed in the following schedule are permitted in the
   zones as indicated, subject to the general provisions, special conditions, additional restrictions, and
   exceptions set forth in this Title. Special use conditions can be found in Chapter 19.42 Specific Use
   Standards for permanent uses and Chapter 19.44 for temporary uses.
B. Procedure for Multiple Uses (Combination of Uses). If a development proposal involves a
   combination of uses other than accessory uses as identified in Table 19.30XX.030, the more
   restrictive provisions of this Title shall apply. For example, if a portion of a development is subject to
   Conditional Use (“C”) approval and the other portion is subject only to Permitted Use (“P) review,
   the entire development shall be reviewed and approved by the Conditional Use process.
C. Abbreviations. The abbreviations used in the schedule mean:
   1. P = Permitted Use. This use is allowed in the zone but may be subject to additional restrictions
       and approval processes as provided in this Title.
   2. C = Conditional Use. This use is conditional because of the unique characteristics or potential
       impacts on the municipality, surrounding neighbors, or adjacent uses, incompatibility in some
       areas of the zone, or compatibility only if special provisions or conditions are required to
       mitigate the detrimental impacts of the use. The Planning Commission is the land use authority
       for uses with this designation.
   3. X = Prohibited Use. This use is prohibited in this zone. Any use not specifically identified in Table
       19.30XX.030 is prohibited in this zone.




Page 90 of 262
Table 19.30.030 – Schedule of Permitted Uses
Use Categories                                 R-2-8   R-2-10
RESIDENTIAL USES:
Accessory Structures                            P        P
Dwelling, Single-Family                         P        P
Dwelling, Single-Family Attached                P        P
Dwelling, Accessory Internal                    P        P
Dwelling, Accessory Detached                    X        X
Dwelling, Duplex                                P        P
Dwelling, Tri-plex                              X        X
Dwelling, Four-plex                             X        X
Dwelling, Multi-Family (5 dwellings or more)    X        X
Mobile Home Park                                X        X
Planned Unit Development                        C        C
Residential Facility for Persons with a         P        P
disability subject to 19.42
Residential Facility for Elderly Persons        P        P
COMMERCIAL:
Bed and Breakfast                               X        X
Home Business subject to 19.42                  P        P
Home Daycare/Preschool subject to 19.42         P        P
Daycare                                         X        X
Short-term Rentals                              X        X
OTHER:
Public or Quasi-Public Use                      P        P
Shared Parking                                  P        P
Rail Transit Mixed-use                          X        X
Public Park and Open Space                      P        P
Private Park and Recreational Grounds           P        P




Page 91 of 262
Temporary Buildings Incidental to                      P                        P
Construction Work, and Other Temporary
Buildings




19.30.040 - Lot Standards and Density.
Development in the R-2-8, or R-2-10 zones shall comply with the development standards of Table
19.30.040 and all other applicable standards in this Title.
Table 19.30.040 Lot Standards and Density
Zone                                   R-2-8                                        R-2-10
Minimum Lot Area                     8,000 Sq Ft                               10,000 Sq Ft

Minimum Lot Width                     60 Feet                                    60 Feet

Maximum Density              6 Dwelling Units per Acre                  9 Dwelling Units per Acre

Density calculations are based on gross density: Gross density is defined as the total (or gross) area of
the parcel in question.


19.30.050 - Bulk and Yard Regulations.
A. Development in the R-2-8 or R-2-10 zones shall comply with the development standards of Table
   19.30.050 and all other applicable standards in this Title.
Table 19.30.050 Bulk and Yard Regulations


                                                   Single-Family                    Two-Family Building


MINIMUM YARDS; RESIDENTIAL USES
Minimum Front Yard                                     25 Feet                            25 Feet
Minimum Side Yard                                      8 Feet                                8 Feet
Minimum Side Yard, Facing a Public                     20 Feet                            20 Feet
Street
Minimum Rear Yard, Without Garage                      30 Feet                            30 Feet
Minimum Rear Yard, With Garage                         15 Feet                            15 Feet
Distance Between Primary Buildings                     16 Feet                            16 Feet

Maximum Lot Coverage                                     30%                                 45%


Page 92 of 262
MINIMUM YARDS; NON-RESIDENTIAL USES
Minimum Front Yard                                    25 Feet                           30 Feet
Minimum Side Yard                                      8 Feet                           8 Feet
Minimum Side Yard, Facing a Public                    20 Feet                           20 Feet
Street
Minimum Rear Yard, Without Garage                     30 Feet                           30 Feet
Minimum Rear Yard, With Garage                        15 Feet                           15 Feet
B. On lots with more than one primary building, the minimum distance between primary buildings shall
   be sixteen feet (16’). It is intended that if lots with more than one primary building are ever
   subdivided, each building shall have a side yard of eight feet (8’) or the current standard for side
   yards in the underlying zone. In the event that regulations conflict for sides, the stricter requirement
   shall take precedence.
19.30.060 - Building Height.
Development in the R-2-8, or R-2-10 zones shall comply with the development standards of Table
19.30.060 and all other applicable standards in this Title.
Table 19.30.060 Building Height
                            Single-Family                        Two-Family Building
Maximum Building Height                     35 Feet                                35 Feet


A. Properties where the slope of the original ground surface exceeds fifteen percent (15%): the slope
   shall be determined using a line drawn from the highest point of elevation to the lowest point of
   elevation on the perimeter of a box that encircles the foundation line of the building or structure.
   Said box shall extend for a distance of fifteen feet (15’) or to the property line, whichever is less,
   around the foundation line of the building or structure. The elevation shall be determined using a
   certified topographic survey with a maximum contour interval of two feet (2’).
B. A dwelling may not contain less than one story.
19.30.070 - Accessory Structure Development Standards.
The minimum yard requirements for an accessory building are as follows:
                                                  R-2-8                              R-2-10
Side Yard                                         1 Foot                             1 Foot
Side Yard, Facing a Public Street                20 Feet                            20 Feet
Rear Yard                                         1 Foot                             1 Foot
Setback from the Main Dwelling                    6 Feet                             6 Feet




Page 93 of 262
A. No building which is accessory to a one-family or two-family dwelling shall exceed twenty feet (20’)
   in height. For each one foot (1’) of height over fourteen feet (14’), accessory buildings shall be set
   back from property lines an additional one foot (1’) up to the allowed maximum height of twenty
   feet (20’).
B. No accessory building or group of accessory buildings shall cover more than twenty-five percent
   (25%) of the rear yard.
19.30.080 - Two-Family dwellings may be subdivided subject to the following standards.
The minimum lot area for duplexes shall be equally distributed until the following minimum lot
standards are met for all newly created lots.
Zone                                              R-2-8                             R-2-10
Minimum Lot Area                               4,000 Sq Ft                        5,000 Sq Ft
A. There is no minimum side yard requirement if property lines are drawn along a shared wall.
B. The division of ground is subject to the requirements of Title 18.
C. The subdivision plat shall specifically note that the purpose of the subdivision is to accommodate
   the division of a two-family dwelling(s).
19.30.090 - Subdivisions in the Medium and High-Density Residential Zones.
Subdivisions in the Medium and High-Density Residential Zones shall be subject to all requirements in
19.78 and platted via a PUD plat.
19.30.100 – General Information.
It is the responsibility of the applicant to comply with all other standards of Title 19 and all other
municipal ordinances.




Page 94 of 262
                             Chapter 19.32 Commercial Zones
19.32.010 – Purpose of Provisions.
The purpose of the commercial zones is to provide places in the municipality for a wide range of
commercial and retail trades and uses, offices, business and professional services, and other uses that
contribute to the economic stability of the community and wellbeing of its employees and residents. The
zones intend to provide employment opportunities and expand the municipal tax base, while also
encouraging sustainable development and providing an attractive transition between residential and
non-residential uses.
19.32.020 – Establishment of Commercial Zones.
A. In order to anticipate and respond to the changing needs of our community and implement
   commercial node concepts included in the adopted General Plan, the following zones are
   established:
   1. C-1 Commercial Zone. The C-1 Zone is intended to provide for a wide range of commercial uses
       designed to serve neighborhood, community, and regional needs. Uses may be freestanding or
       integrated in a center. Development will be orientation to the street to encourage a pedestrian
       relationship and buildings will be placed to allow interconnected walkways and shared site
       accesses, as applicable, for increased convenience, accessibility, and enhanced safety for
       pedestrians. Development will include elements and façades at the pedestrian level and shall
       achieve a sense of human scale and create visual interest at eye-level.
   2. C-2 Commercial Zone. The C-2 Zone is intended to provide retail uses, service-oriented
       businesses, offices, and restaurants in an integrated center. Each center shares common
       architecture, access, parking, signage, and landscape design. Centers will typically include three
       (3) or more acres and provide regional or community-level destination shopping while
       incorporating a design which enhances pedestrian orientation within the center.
19.32.030 – Schedule of Permitted Uses.
A. Schedule of Permitted Uses. The specific uses listed in the following schedule are permitted in the
   zones as indicated, subject to the general provisions, special conditions, additional restrictions, and
   exceptions set forth in this Title. Special use conditions can be found in Chapter 19.42 Specific Use
   Standards for permanent uses and Chapter 19.44 for temporary uses.
B. Procedure for Multiple Uses (Combination of Uses). If a development proposal involves a
   combination of uses other than accessory uses as identified in Table 19.32.030, the more restrictive
   provisions of this Title shall apply. For example, if a portion of a development is subject to
   Conditional Use (“C”) approval and the other portion is subject only to Permitted Use (“P) review,
   the entire development shall be reviewed and approved by the Conditional Use process.
C. Abbreviations. The abbreviations used in the schedule mean:
   1. P = Permitted Use. This use is allowed in the zone but may be subject to additional restrictions
       and approval processes as provided in this Title.
   2. C = Conditional Use. This use is conditional because of the unique characteristics or potential
       impacts on the municipality, surrounding neighbors, or adjacent uses, incompatibility in some
       areas of the zone, or compatibility only if special provisions or conditions are required to



Page 95 of 262
          mitigate the detrimental impacts of the use. The Planning Commission is the land use authority
          for uses with this designation.
       3. X = Prohibited Use. This use is prohibited in this zone. Any use not specifically identified in Table
          19.32.030 is prohibited in this zone.
Table 19.32.030 – Schedule of Permitted Uses
Use Categories
RETAIL AND SERVICE:                                                                 C-1                 C-2
Child Care Center                                                                     P                  P
Commercial Plant Nursery                                                              P                  P
Financial Institution                                                                 P                  P
Laundry Cleaning, Automatic Self-Help and/or Drop Off                                 P                  P
Personal Care Services                                                                P                  P
Personal Instruction Services                                                         P                  P
Retail and Service Commercial                                                         P                  P
Retail Shops or Galleries if Primary Product is Produced On-Site                      P                  P
FOOD AND DRINK:                                                                     C-1                 C-2
Food truck / mobile restaurant / food cart                                            P                  P
Restaurant, Fast Food                                                                 P                  P
Restaurant, Sit-Down with or Without Alcohol                                          P                  P


LODGING:                                                                            C-1                 C-2
Bed and Breakfast Inn                                                                 X                  P
Hotel/Motel                                                                           X                  X


OFFICE:                                                                             C-1                 C-2
Office, General                                                                       P                  P
Office, Intensive                                                                     P                  P
Office, Medical                                                                       P                  P


RECREATIONAL:                                                                       C-1                 C-2
Athletic Clubs                                                                        X                  P



  Page 96 of 262
Commercial Recreation                                                 P     P
Recreation Facility, Commercial                                       P     P
Recreation Facility, Public                                           P     P
Theatres and Concert Halls (Indoor)                                   X     P


INSTITUTIONAL USES:                                                   C-1   C-2
Animal Control or Rescue Facility                                     X     P
Animal Hospital or Clinic                                             X     P
Animal Hospital or Clinic with Outdoor Holding Facilities             X     P
Cemetery                                                              X     C
Church, Synagogue, Mosque, Temple, Cathedral, or other religious
buildings                                                             P     P
Libraries                                                             P     P
Parks/Open Space                                                      P     P
Public Uses                                                           P     P
Public Utilities, Major                                               C     C
Public Utilities, Minor                                               P     P
Schools, Public                                                       P     P
Schools, Private/Charter                                              C     C


ACCESSORY USES:                                                       C-1   C-2
Accessory Outside Storage                                             X     P
Home Business, subject to chapter 19.42                               P     P
Household Pets, not including kennels                                 P     P
Drive-Thru and Drive-Up Facilities appurtenant to a permitted use     X     X
Outdoor dining appurtenant to a permitted restaurant use              P     P
Sidewalk Displays and Sidewalk Cafes appurtenant to a permitted use   P     P
Temporary buildings subject to 19.44                                  P     P


NONCONFORMING USES:                                                   C-1   C-2
Pre-Existing Lot                                                      P     P


  Page 97 of 262
Pre-Existing Structure                                                               P                   P
Pre-Existing Use                                                                     P                   P


  19.32.040 – Lot and Area Standards.
  Development in the C-1 and C-2 Zones shall comply with the lot and project area standards shown in
  Table 19.32.040 and all other standards in this Title, as applicable.
    Table 19.32.040 – Lot and Area Standards
    Lot and Area Standards                           C-1                                  C-2
    Minimum Lot Size                  10,000 Square Feet                  10,000 Square Feet
    Minimum Lot Width and             60 Feet                             100 Feet
    Frontage


  19.32.050 – Site Standards.
  The following site standards shall apply in the C-1, and C-2 Zones:
  A. Setbacks. Setback standards frame streets spatially and encourage a consistent building wall along
     street edges. Parking setbacks enhance pedestrian safety and comfort while reducing the visual
     prominence of automobiles as viewed from streets, building entrances, and sidewalks. See Table
     19.32.050 for setback requirements.
    Table 19.32.050 – Bulk and Yard Regulations
                                                    C-1                                  C-2
    Front Yard Setback, Arterial or   18' landscaped setback from        30' landscaped setback from
    Collector Street                  back of sidewalk                   public right of way
    Front Yard Setback, Minor         10' landscaped setback from        15' landscaped setback from back
    Street or Drive                   back of curb                       of curb
    Side Yard Setback – Corner Lots   Same as the front yard             Same as the front yard setback
                                      setback
    Build to Line                     The front yard setback is the build-to-line. At least fifty percent
                                      (50%) of the adjacent façade shall be built within three feet (3') of
                                      the build-to-line. A side yard, corner lot setback is also a build-to-
                                      line.
    Side Yard Setback – Interior      No setback required if sharing a common wall. 8’ setback to
    Lots                              property line or 16’ between buildings if building pads are used. 20’
                                      landscaped buffer required to separate residential uses from
                                      commercial uses.




  Page 98 of 262
 Rear Yard Setback                   10’ setback to property line or 20’ between buildings if building
                                     pads are used. 20’ Landscaped buffer required to separate
                                     residential uses from commercial uses.


B. Location and Orientation of Buildings. Structures frame streets spatially by being constructed at the
   build-to line. Buildings shall be sited to face the street with parking lots on the side or rear. At street
   or drive intersections the buildings shall be located directly on the corner with parking in the rear. At
   least fifty percent of the adjacent façade shall be built within three feet of the build-to line.
C. Build-to-Line Exceptions. Some big box development, such as a grocery stores, may have parking in
   front, provided other commercial pad sites are proposed along the frontage that would comply with
   the build-to-line requirements. These pads shall create a forty percent (40%) building street frontage
   along the width of the project area if combined with public plazas or courtyards.
D. Drive-through windows shall be located at the side or rear of buildings. While not desirable, a single
   drive aisle may be located between the building and the street so long as its width does not exceed
   twelve feet (12’), any pedestrian crossings of it are clearly delineated with special paving
   treatments, no parking spaces occur off of it and a low wall, railing with landscaping, or a continuous
   hedge at least three feet high exists between stacked cars and the sidewalk. If a drive-through is
   located between the building and the street, the front setback/build to line is 12’ feet further from
   the back of sidewalk or public right of way.
E. Sidewalks or Trails. All building front entryways shall have a continuous sidewalk to the street
   sidewalk. Sidewalks at least six feet (6’) wide are required along the entire front of the lot or project
   area. A six foot (6’) wide park strip shall be installed between the street and the sidewalk as a
   pedestrian buffer. No fencing that is parallel to any sidewalk shall be within two feet (2’) of the edge
   of the sidewalk.
F. Outdoor Dining. If outdoor dining is allowed, the patio or dining area may encroach on up to ten feet
   (10’) of the required landscaped setback.
G. Utilities. All overhead utilities shall be placed underground unless the applicable utility company
   deems it to be infeasible.
H. Screening. All garbage dumpsters shall be enclosed by a masonry wall or architectural design with
   materials that are consistent with the building. The enclosure gate shall be metal and accessible to
   service vehicles. The enclosure wall and gate shall be a minimum of twelve inches (12”) higher than
   the trash receptacle bin. Service areas, mechanical equipment, and meters shall be completely
   screened from the street.
I. Site Furnishings. The developer or builder is responsible for providing site furnishings as required in
   this document. All site furnishings shall be specified on the plans.
J. Bike Rack. Bike racks shall be provided and installed at a minimum of 3 bike stalls per 50 vehicle
   parking stalls within each development (minimum of 3 bike rack stalls). Bike racks should be located
   near the entrance to the building and visible from the street or drive. Bike racks shall be durable and
   permanently installed over a hardscape surface.
K. Trash and Recycle Receptacles. Trash and recycle receptacles are required to be provided at a
   minimum of 1 (both trash and recycle) per public entrance at commercial buildings.
L. Architectural Standards. All new development shall present an attractive, coordinated streetscape,
   incorporate architectural and site design elements appropriate to a pedestrian scale and provide for


Page 99 of 262
   the safety and convenience of pedestrians. All new development shall comply with the following
   architectural standards:
   1. General Design Standards. The following building design requirements shall apply in the C-1 and
       C-2 Zones:
       a. Walls. No more than three materials shall be used for primary wall surfaces. Exterior finishes
           shall be of traditional, time- and weather-tested techniques. Retaining and screening walls
           shall be of materials complementary to the building’s materials. Buildings shall use a
           cohesive palette of colors which complement nearby buildings. Without limiting the use of
           color, large areas of wall shall be subdued in color and not reflective. Intense colors should
           be used as accent only.
       b. Building Stepbacks. Buildings should provide a sense of street enclosure for pedestrians in
           more urban environments. New commercial buildings adjacent to existing neighborhoods
           shall step-down in height to help minimize the visual impact to residential areas. See Table
           19.32.060A for requirements.
       c. Transparency. If applicable, the intent of transparency standards is to promote economic
           activity by creating active street walls and visual interest for pedestrians at the ground-level.
           They also serve to promote personal and property safety by introducing more “eyes on the
           street” or natural surveillance of the public right-of-way and building interiors. See Table
           19.32.060A for requirements.
 Table 19.32.060 – Building Height and Transparency Standards
 Standard                 C-1                                          C-2
 Building Height          Minimum: No primary building within          Minimum: No primary building
                          this district shall be erected to a height   within this district shall be erected
                          less than fifteen feet (15’) above grade.    to a height less than fifteen feet
                                                                       (15’) above grade.
                          Maximum: 45'                                 Maximum: 60'



 Step-down Height         Within one hundred feet (100’) of sites zoned for single family residential,
 Adjacent to              the following standards shall apply:
 Residential Areas.
                          On the portion of the site within one hundred feet (100’) of a site zoned R-1,
                          the maximum height shall be thirty-five feet (35’).
                          On the portion of the site within one hundred feet (100’) of a site zoned R-2,
                          R-4, RM, or RMH the maximum height shall be forty-five feet (45’).
 Transparency             Ground Floor (frontage) 30%                  Ground Floor (frontage) 30%
                          Ground Floor (exposed sides) 30%             Upper Floors (frontage) 20%
                          Upper Floors (frontage) 20%


       d. Exterior Structure Standards. All exterior walls of all structures shall be constructed in
          compliance with the following:

Page 100 of 262
       e. Materials. All buildings shall use one or more of the following durable materials as
          significant finish: architectural precast concrete, architecturally treated concrete masonry
          units, brick cladding, natural and cast stone, architectural metals, and glazing. Architectural
          site-cast concrete may be allowed if designed, articulated, and colored for a finished
          appearance on all buildings. At least fifty percent of all buildings visible from an arterial or
          collector street shall be composed of brick, stone, architecturally treated CMU, architectural
          precast concrete, architectural metals, and/or glazing.
       f. Exterior Insulation and Finish System (EIFS)/Stucco. The design and application of EIFS or
          synthetic stucco are expected to be of a high enough quality to allow for crisp detailing and
          substantial relief. The use of EIFS on ground floor walls shall be limited to the surface area
          three or more feet above finished grade. The wall area from finished grade to if the use of
          EIFS begins shall be clad by a hard, durable material such as brick, stone, architectural
          precast concrete, or architecturally treated concrete masonry units.
       g. Detail and Finish. Building façades that face the street but do not have pedestrian entries
          shall be composed of high-quality materials such as brick or stone and shall provide variety
          and interest in the façade through the introduction of such elements as pilasters, recessed
          or protruding bays, changes in materials and/or colors, building lighting elements, display
          windows with products or product graphics, transparent windows or clerestories, and well-
          designed signs and graphics.
       h. Surface Variation. Continuous building wall surfaces shall be relieved with significant
          variations of wall planes or overhangs that create shadow areas and add visual interest.
          Variations should result from significant dimensional changes in plane, color, or detail as
          accomplished by such devices as protruding bays, recessed entries, upper-level step-backs,
          arcades, offsets in the general plane of the façade, changes in materials or color, bay
          windows, vestibules, porches, balconies, exterior shading devices, nonretractable canopies
          or awnings, projecting cornices, or eaves.
       i. Vertical Separation and Human Scale. Buildings in excess of two (2) stories in height shall
          exhibit architectural detailing that establishes a vertical separation between lower and
          upper stories. This may be accomplished by a mid-façade cornice or trim, a change in
          material, style or color, a façade step-back or roof pitch with dormer windows, or other
          methods. Buildings in excess of two (2) stories shall also exhibit architecture design that
          incorporates the human scale, which is specific architecture features below 10 feet (10’).
       j. Façade Features. All large retail building façades visible from public streets shall include
          architectural treatments that add detail, character, and reduce the appearance of massive
          blank walls. Techniques such as color and material changes, expression of structure, shifts in
          plane, offsets and projections, belt courses, reveals, pilasters, windows, doors, arcades,
          canopies, and other similar elements may achieve this standard. Opaque (solid) storefront
          security closures (rolling doors, etc.) are not allowed.
       k. Entrances. The intent of entrance standards is to provide direct and comfortable access to
          businesses for pedestrians. Entrances on public streets are particularly important to
          promote pedestrian traffic and activities on the sidewalks. The following standards apply to
          the entrances of all structures:
       l. Street front entrances shall be developed on all new buildings. An unobstructed sidewalk
          connection from the door location shall be provided to connect to the public sidewalk. Entry


Page 101 of 262
           doors shall be located on the front façade or be placed within three feet (3’) of the front
           façade.
        m. Primary public entry(s) shall be architecturally emphasized so that pedestrians can easily
           find them.
        n. Weather protection features such as awnings, canopies, doors inset by at least three feet
           (3’), or arcades shall be provided at all customer entrances.
        o. Corner Buildings. Special attention shall be given to corner buildings that are highly visible,
           that may serve as landmarks, and provide a sense of enclosure at intersections. Special
           attention can be achieved by architecture, landscape, and public place.
19.32.060 – Off-Street Parking Standards.
In addition to the parking standards specified in Chapter 19.48, “Off Street Parking Standards”, the
following parking standards shall apply:
A. Change Of Use: Changes in use shall follow the standards outlined in Chapter 19.48.
B. Surface parking areas, except for approved street parking, may not be located between a building
   and a public right-of-way on lots or parcels adjacent to a public right-of-way. This requirement shall
   only apply to one side of a lot or parcel that is adjacent to a public right-of-way on multiple sides.
   Surface parking for a big box development, such as a grocery store, that meets the standards for a
   build-to-line exception as described in 19.32.050.C, is allowed parking between the building and the
   right of way as long as the pad sites each comply with this part.
C. Surface parking areas, except for approved street parking, located within thirty feet (30') of a public
   right-of-way shall be screened by grading, landscaping, walls/fences, or a combination of these, to a
   height of three feet (3') above the surface of the parking area.
D. All commercial development should be designed to allow for cross-access to adjacent properties to
   encourage shared parking and shared access points on public or private streets, unless otherwise
   specified. A minimum distance of one hundred (100) feet should be required between a cross-access
   way and an entrance. UDOT standards may supersede this requirement in areas of UDOT
   jurisdiction. If cross-access is deemed impractical by Director on the basis of topography, the
   presence of natural features, or vehicular safety factors, this requirement may be waived provided
   that appropriate bicycle and pedestrian connections are provided between adjacent developments
   or land uses.
E. The Director or Designee may approve an exception to the requirements of this subsection if he or
   she determines that any of the requirements are not reasonably possible based on the unique
   characteristics of the site.
19.32.070 - Open Space and Landscaping.
A. In addition to the parking standards specified in Chapter 19.50, “Landscaping, Screening, and Water
   Efficiency Standards”, the following parking standards shall apply:
   1. Physical Connections. Each lot shall have a system of pedestrian walkways and sidewalks that
        provide connections between the building entrances, neighboring building entrances, sidewalks,
        parking areas, open space, and public trails.
   2. Minimum Landscaped Area. Thirteen percent (13%) of the area of each commercial site shall be
        developed as landscaped setbacks, courtyards, plazas, open space, or walkways.



Page 102 of 262
    3. Landscaped Setback from Edge of a Street or Drive. The entirety of the required setback
       between a building or parking lot and a street or drive shall consist of landscaping, sidewalks, or
       a combination thereof. Courtyard or plaza areas shall be deemed to be a part of the front
       setback of the building.
    4. Prohibitions. Maintenance buildings, trash collection and recycling areas, storage and service
       areas, mechanical equipment, and off-street loading areas may not be permitted in the front
       setback of any building and shall be located behind the main building structure, or completely
       screened from public view.
    5. Building Foundation Landscaping. The ground adjacent to the building foundation shall be
       landscaped if it is visible from public vantage points.
    6. Residential Buffer. A landscaped buffer shall be required to separate residential uses from
       commercial and industrial uses.
    7. Fully Sight-Obscuring Fence. The Planning Commission shall require complete visual separation
       from residential uses if it determines that complete screening is necessary to protect abutting
       uses, and landscaping is not practical. Such fence shall be a minimum of six feet (6’) high (up to
       eight feet (8’) if warranted and approved by the Planning Commission) and completely sight-
       obscuring. Fences may be of wood, metal, bricks, masonry, or other permanent materials.
19.32.080 – Lighting.
A. Except for ordinary repairs and maintenance of lighting approved and installed after the adoption of
   this ordinance all new development shall comply with the following outdoor lighting standards:
B. Light Source. Light sources shall be at least as efficient as LED and no greater than four thousand
   kelvin (4000K) in correlated color temperature (CCT). Light levels shall be designed such that light
   trespass measured at the property line does not exceed 0.01 foot-candles. Light fixtures shall use a
   cutoff luminaire that is fully or partially shielded with no light distributed above the horizontal plane
   of the luminaire or into nearby residential structures. In no case shall the total lumens emitted for a
   single site exceed one hundred thousand (1000) lumens per acre.
C. Parking Lot Lighting. Parking lot lighting shall be designed and constructed to comply with the
   following standards:
D. Pole Height/Design.
   1. Luminaire mounting height is measured from the parking lot or driveway surface and may range
        from ten feet (10’) to thirty feet (30’), based on review of site plan, proposed land uses,
        surrounding land uses, parking area size, building mass, topography of site, and impacts on
        adjacent properties.
   2. Poles and fixtures shall be black, dark brown, or another neutral color approved by the Director
        or Designee.
   3. All attempts shall be made to place the base of light poles within landscape areas.
   4. Light poles in parking areas may not exceed thirty feet (30’) in height. Poles exceeding twenty
        feet (20’) in height are appropriate only for parking areas exceeding two hundred (200) stalls
        and not within 75’ of a residential zone.
E. Other Outdoor Lighting Standards.
   1. Wall-mounted lighting fixtures shall not be located above eighteen feet (18’) in height unless
        being used as building accent lighting. Fixture styles and finishes shall complement the building
        exterior.


Page 103 of 262
   2. Lighting located along pedestrian pathways or in areas primarily dedicated to human activity
        shall be bollard style lighting or down-directed lighting not to exceed twelve feet (12’) in height.
        Pedestrian lighting shall be coordinated through each project and shall complement adjacent
        projects to the greatest extent practical.
   3. In order to avoid light pollution, backlit awnings, up-light spotlights, and floodlights are
        prohibited.
   4. Street lighting shall either be chosen from the city’s approved streetlight list or installed to
        match a theme set by developments within the zone or neighborhood.
   5. Lighting for outdoor athletic facilities may be mounted on a roof or wall at a height above the
        typical eighteen foot (18’) maximum, provided it is demonstrated by the applicant. through
        submittal of appropriate documentation and light studies, that the facility cannot otherwise be
        properly lighted. This lighting shall comply with the following requirements:
        a. Light fixtures and necessary supports may not extend more than four feet (4’) above the
             roof line;
        b. Light fixtures shall include appropriate shields to ensure no light trespass off the site;
        c. Light fixtures shall include appropriate shields and louvers to minimize, to the greatest
             extent possible, any point source light pollution;
        d. Light fixtures and supports shall be painted to blend with the color scheme of the structure
             to which they are mounted;
        e. Light fixtures shall be dimmable to address any possible unforeseen light impacts once they
             are constructed and operable; and
        f. The planning commission shall review the hours of light usage and shall approve an
             appropriate usage schedule depending on the specific situation and impacts on the
             surrounding area.
F. Upgrading Preexisting Lighting. An applicant shall bring preexisting lighting into compliance with this
   code upon application with the business license department for a change in ownership, new
   business in a stand-alone structure or a multi-tenant structure in which the new business utilizes
   more than fifty percent (50%) of the building square footage on the site, in conjunction with an
   application for a building permit for any alteration, remodel or expansion of any structure on the
   site, or in conjunction with changes to the approved site plan.
G. Lighting Plan Submission Requirements. A lighting plan is required for all developments and shall
   contain the following:
   1. Plans indicating the location on the premises and the type of illumination devices, fixtures,
        lamps, supports, reflectors, installation and electrical details;
   2. Description of illuminating devices, fixtures, lamps, supports, reflectors, and other devices that
        may include, but is not limited to, manufacturer catalog cuts and drawings, including a section if
        required; and photometric data, such as that furnished by manufacturers, or similar showing the
        angle of the cutoff or light emission; and
   3. A point-by-point light plan to determine the adequacy of the lighting over the site.
19.32.090 – Fences Hedges and Walls.
A. The following standards apply to new development of fences, hedges, and walls:




Page 104 of 262
   1. Required Setbacks. A fence, hedge, wall, column, pier, post, or any similar structure or any
       combination of such structures is permitted in the required setback of a zone district if it meets
       the following conditions:
   2. No fence, hedge, or wall extends beyond or across a property line without a recorded
       agreement with the abutting property owner;
   3. Only one fence or wall shall be allowed per property line. Double fences, walls or combination
       thereof are prohibited; and
   4. No barbed wire or other sharp, pointed, or electrically charged fence may be erected or
       maintained, except a temporary fence on a construction site to protect the property during the
       period of construction may be topped with barbed wire if the barbed wire is not less than eight
       feet (8’) above the ground and does not extend more than two feet (2’) above the temporary
       fence.
   5. Height. No fence or wall may exceed seven feet (7’) in height, four feet (4’) in height from the
       front of the primary structure forward, or three feet (3’) in the sight distance triangle, measured
       as follows:
   6. In a required yard abutting a street, the total effective height above the finished grade
       measured on the side nearest the street;
   7. In any other required yard, the total effective height above the finished grade measured on the
       side nearest the abutting property;
   8. On a property line, measured from the finished grade of either side if the abutting property
       owners are in agreement; and
   9. A temporary fence on a construction site may be as high as required to protect the property
       during the period of construction.
   10. Athletic Facilities. Fencing around athletic facilities, including, without limitation, tennis courts,
       may be fourteen feet (14’) in height so long as all portions above six feet (6’) are constructed
       with at least fifty percent nonopaque materials.



                                  Chapter 19.34 (Reserved)
                             Chapter 19.36 Mixed-Use Zones
19.36.010 – Purpose of Provisions.
The mixed-use zones are intended for areas within the community where a combination of residential,
commercial, civic, and other uses is desirable in order to strengthen local tax base and employment
opportunities, provide diverse housing types, create gathering places, and connect businesses with
nearby customers. The mixed-use districts are distinguished by the uses they allow as well as their
development standards which are intended to promote a high-quality, compact, walkable, and
interesting built environment.
19.36.020 – Establishment of Mixed-Use Zoning Districts.
A. Establishment of Mixed-Use Zones: To anticipate and respond to the changing needs of the
   municipality and implement mixed-use and livability concepts included in the adopted General Plan,
   the municipality establishes the following zones:


Page 105 of 262
      1. Neighborhood Mixed Use District (NMU). The NMU Zone is intended to create a residential
         district that allows a small-scale, horizontal or vertical mixture of neighborhood commercial uses
         to serve the daily needs of area residents. This Zone is intended only for small-scale, low-impact
         uses, to promote a better mixture of uses close to home and within a walkable environment.
      2. Corridor Mixed Use District (CMU). The CMU Zone is intended to promote compact and
         walkable development, some housing options, and proximity to shopping and services along
         transit corridors, especially where infill development is desirable. The CMU allows for greater
         intensity of uses and building footprints without disrupting surrounding neighborhoods.
  19.36.030 – Schedule of Permitted Uses.
  A. Schedule of Permitted Uses and Conditions. The specific use listed in the following schedule is
     permitted in the zone as indicated, subject to the general provisions, special conditions, additional
     restrictions, and exceptions set forth in this Title. Special use conditions can be found in Chapter
     19.42 Specific Use Standards for permanent uses and Chapter 19.44 for temporary uses.
  B. Procedure for Multiple Uses (Combination of Uses). If a development proposal involves a
     combination of uses other than accessory uses as identified in Table 19.36.030, the more restrictive
     provisions of this Title shall apply. For example, if a portion of a development is subject to
     Conditional Use (“C”) approval and the other portion is subject only to Permitted Use (“P) review,
     the entire development shall be reviewed and approved by the Conditional Use process.
  C. Abbreviations. The abbreviations in the schedule mean:
     1. P = Permitted Use. This use is allowed in the zone but may be subject to additional restrictions
         and approval processes as provided in this Title.
     2. C = Conditional Use. This use is conditional based upon the unique characteristics or potential
         impacts on the municipality, surrounding neighbors, adjacent land uses, incompatibility in some
         areas of the zone, or compatibility only if special provisions or conditions are required to
         mitigate the detrimental impacts of the use. The Planning Commission is the approval authority
         for uses with this designation.
     3. X = Prohibited Use. This use is prohibited in this zone. Any use not specifically identified in Table
         19.36.040 is prohibited in this zone.
Table 19.36.030 – Schedule of Permitted Uses
Use Categories
RESIDENTIAL USES:                                                          NMU                  CMU
Dwelling, Single-Family                                                    P                    X
Dwelling, Single Family Attached                                           P                    P
Dwelling, Three- and Four-Family                                           P                    P
Dwelling, Two-Family (Duplex)                                              P                    P
Educational Facility with Residential Accommodation                        X                    P
RETAIL AND SERVICE:
Bank, Credit Union, or Other Financial Institution                         P                    P



  Page 106 of 262
Child or Adult Care Facility                                            P   P
Laundry Cleaning, Automatic Self-Help                                   P   P
Laundry Cleaning Drop-Off                                               P   P
Mobile Store                                                            X   P
Personal Care Services                                                  P   P
Personal Instruction Services                                           P   P
Post Office                                                             P   P
Reception Hall, Reception Center                                        X   P
Retail Sales                                                            P   P
Retail Shops or Galleries where Primary Product is Produced On-Site E   C   C
Shopping Center                                                         X   C
FOOD AND DRINK:
Food Truck, Mobile Restaurant, Food Cart                                X   P
Restaurant, Fast Food                                                   P   P
Restaurant, Sit Down with or without Alcohol                            P   P
OFFICE:
Offices – General, Professional, and Trade Services                     P   P
RECREATIONAL:
Commercial Recreation and Entertainment, Indoor                         X   P
Outdoor Recreation, Small Scale                                         X   P
Theatres and Concert Halls (Indoor)                                     X   P
INSTITUTIONAL USES:
Animal Hospital or Clinic                                               X   P
Church, Synagogue, Mosque, Temple, Cathedral, or other religious
buildings                                                               P   P
Community Garden
Educational Facility                                                    P   P
Public or Quasi Public Use                                              P   P
Public Park                                                             P   P
SPECIALTY:
Medical, Urgent Care, and Dental Care                                   X   P


  Page 107 of 262
Mortuary or Funeral Home                                                   X                     P
Park and Ride                                                              X                     P
Parking Lot (not associate with other use)                                 X                     P
ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory Buildings, Garages, Carports, and Structures subject to 19.42.   P                     P
Home Business, subject to 19.42.                                           P                     P
Sidewalk Displays and Sidewalk Cafes                                       C                     C
NONCONFORMING USES:
Pre-Existing Lot                                                           P                     P
Pre-Existing Structure                                                     P                     P
Pre-Existing Use                                                           P                     P


  19.36.040 – Schedule of Uses, Special Conditions.
  A. Residential Uses. In the NMU and CMU Zones, residential uses are limited as follows.
     1. Units above a business: Residential dwelling units on the second story or above are permitted.
     2. Units behind a business: Residential dwelling units on the first story that are separated from the
         front lot line by a non-residential use in the same story are permitted.
     3. Units attached to a business on a multiple frontage lot: in no case shall first-story dwelling units
         face onto a front lot line.
  19.36.050 – Development Standards.
  A. Any development in the NMU or CMU Zones shall comply with the development standards shown in
     Table 19.36XX.050 and any other applicable standards in this Title.
  B. Buildings in any Mixed-Use Zoning District shall be oriented so as to be front-facing on the public
     street.
                    Table 19.36.050 – Mixed Use Zoning District Development Standards
                         Standard                             NMU                           CMU
    Minimum Lot Size
                                                           8,000 sq. ft.                8,000 sq. ft.
    Maximum Density
    Dwelling Units per lot                                      2                            2
    Maximum Building Size, in square feet (sq. ft.)
    Non-Grocery                                               5,000
    Grocery-Anchored                                          5,000                          NA



  Page 108 of 262
 Height Limitations, in feet (ft)
 Minimum                                                   25                             20
 Maximum 4 5                                               35                             40
 Ground Floor Height Minimum for
                                                           12                             12
 Commercial / Mixed Use Buildings Only
 Floor Area Ratio
 Maximum FAR                                              1.5:1                           NA
 Minimum FAR                                               1:1                           2:1
 Minimum Transparency Requirements 1
 First Floor / Ground Story                               50%                            70%
 Additional Floors                                        25%                            35%
 Entries
                                                                         35;
 Primary Façade Entries, Articulation.                                         Recessed a minimum of
                                                                               4’ depth and 7’ width. A
                                                           NA
                                                                               permanent overhang is
                                                                                      required.
                                                1 entry minimum at the ground floor is required on
                                                 each non-primary façade, excluding those with a
                                                              shared common wall.
 Articulation
                                                     Structural columns or variation in façade
                                               (depth/change in material) shall be articulated at the
                                              primary façade for the full height of the building to the
                                              cornice (or to the full height of the building to the first
                                                         stepback); minimum 50’ spacing.
                                                  Cornice/Frieze Banding is required between the
                                                 second and third floors on buildings with three or
                                                                   more stories.
 Roof                                                                              Pitched roofs are
                                                           NA                   prohibited. Cornice at
                                                                                 roof line is required.
 Usable Outdoor Space, minimum requirement per unit in square feet (sq. ft) 3
 Single-Family Attached or Detached                       150                             NA
 Two-, Three-, or Four-Family                             100                             60




Page 109 of 262
C. Transparency. Transparency means the use of materials that allow for persons from the street to
   see into the active uses of the building. Areas covered by menus, murals, or other signage that
   prevents visibility into the active use do not count toward the required transparency, unless the
   municipality has authorized a temporary advertisement or other festive decoration.
D. Entries on Corner Lots. Buildings on corner lots shall be oriented to the corner that faces on two
   public streets. Corner entries are required and shall be angled toward the intersection of the two
   public streets in order to emphasize the corner.
E. Usable Outdoor Space. Means outdoor space provided for the enjoyment of the tenant. The
   required outdoor space may be provided through private outdoor balconies or patios attached to
   the unit or may be combined in an outdoor community space shared by all residents / units.
   1. Balconies. If balconies are provided, they shall be recessed or incorporated into the horizontal
       setback.
19.36.060 – Required Yards and Setbacks.
A. Purpose: The purpose of the standards in this section is to create and maintain street frontages that
   are attractive, promote a walkable environment, and create sense of safety and comfort through
   appropriate scale.
B. The minimum yard requirements for buildings within the Mixed-Use Zones are presented in Table
   19.36.060.
C. Exception for Setbacks for Common Walls. The side setback is zero feet (0’) for any building which
   shares a side common wall.
19.36.070 – Height Exceptions.
Exceptions to the building heights specified in 19.46 Site Development Standards.
19.36.080 – Off Street Parking Standards.
All provisions of Chapter 19.48 shall apply to development in any of the Mixed-Use Zones. For
developments that combine multiple uses, parking requirements shall be calculated for each specific use
according to the criteria in 19.48 The Director or Designee may authorize shared parking for combined
uses if those uses are found to operate at distinct hours of the day or night.

                                   Chapter 19.38 (Reserved)
                                   Chapter 19.40 (Reserved)
                          Chapter 19.42 Specific Use Standards
19.42.010 - Purpose.
The purpose of this Chapter is to further the purposes of the General Plan, this Ordinance, and all other
municipal Land Use Ordinances, as well as to ensure compatibility of selected specific uses with
surrounding uses and properties to avoid any negative impacts associated with such uses.
19.42.020 – Applicability.
A. This Chapter contains the specific and additional regulations for permitted and conditional uses
   identified in the Schedule of Uses for each of the zones contained in this Title. Any use not listed as
   permitted or conditional in the applicable zone shall be prohibited.

Page 110 of 262
B. Compliance with specific use standards, as applicable, as well as all other requirements of this
   Ordinance, and all other Land Use Ordinances, and all other Federal, State, and Local requirements
   are required for any Land Use Application approval required by this Ordinance, or any other
   Approval, Permit, or License required by other Land Use Ordinances.
19.42.030 - Accessory Dwelling Units, Internal.
A. Purpose. White City recognizes that lnternal Accessory Dwelling Units in single-family residential
   zones can be an important tool in the overall housing plan for White City. The purposes of the
   Internal Accessory Dwelling Unit standards of this code are to:
   1. Comply with State of Utah legislation which allows for Internal Accessory Dwelling Units
       generally and requires municipalities to adopt an ordinance if they wish to regulate certain
       requirements of the dwellings;
   2. Allow opportunities for property owners to provide social or personal support for family
       members where independent living is desirable;
   3. Provide for affordable housing opportunities;
   4. Make housing units available to moderate in co me people who might otherwise have difficulty
       finding housing in White City;
   5. Provide opportunities for additional income to offset rising housing costs;
   6. Develop housing units in single-family neighborhoods that are appropriate for people at a
       variety of stages in the life cycle;
   7. Preserve the character of single-family neighborhoods by providing: standards governing
       development of Internal Accessory Dwelling Units; and
   8. Ensure that Internal Accesso1y Dwelling Units are properly regulated by requiring property
       owners to obtain a business license and a building permit for an IADU prior to renting the IADU.
B. Definitions.
   1. "Internal Accessory Dwelling Unit" means an accessory dwelling unit created:
       a. within a primary dwelling;
       b. within the footprint of the primary dwelling at the time the internal accessory dwelling unit
            is created; and - for the purpose of offering a long- term rental of 30 consecutive days or
            longer.
   2. "Owner Occupancy" means a property where the property owner, as reflected in title records,
       makes his or her legal primary residence at the site, as evidenced by voter registration, vehicle
       registration, driver's license, county assessor records or similar means.
   3. "Primary Dwelling" means a single-family dwelling that is detached and is occupied as the
       primary residence of the owner of record.
C. Allowed Areas and Zones.
   1. IADUs incorporated within the single- family residence shall be a permitted use on single family
       home lots in primarily residential zones that require 6,000 square foot minimum lot sizes or
       greater excepting those lots in the A-1, A-2 and R-1-21 zones. These zone comprise less than
       25% of the total residential zoned area of White City and may be exempted by Utah State Code
       I0-9a-530(4)(e)(i) .
   2. In no case shall an IADU be permitted in a townhome. a multi-family PUD or other attached unit
       type. or on any lot that cannot satisfy parking. or other conditions of the code.




Page 111 of 262
D. Number of Residents Allowed in Accessory Units. IADUs shall not be occupied by more than four
   persons.
E. Parking Requirements. In addition to the required parking for the existing home. the property owner
   must demonstrate that one (1) on-site parking space is available for an IADU. A property owner
   bears the burden of showing by a preponderance of the evidence that sufficient parking is available.
   In cases where attached garage conversions are done to create IADU. replacement on-site parking
   spaces are required for the primary dwelling in a number equal to the parking spaces eliminated by
   such IADU.
F. Owner Occupancy. The primary dwelling or the IADU must have owner occupancy. An application
   for an IADU shall include evidence of owner occupancy.
G. Number of IADUs per Lot. Only one IADU is allowed per lot.
H. IADU Design Standards.
   1. An approved building permit is required for all IADUs before an IADU is constructed. and all
       other applicable provisions of this chapter and the White City Code must be met before an IADU
       can be rented. Existing non-compliant IADUs may come into compliance by receiving a permit
       and verifying existing work was done according to code.
   2. The design and size of an IADU shall conform to all applicable building, fire. and health codes,
       including applicable water service requirements.
   3. Conversions of an existing space to an IAD will require compliance with safety requirements per
       building code including. but not limited to, egress windows with window wells in case of
       emergency. close off door(s) if needed between the IADU and main unit. and sufficient HVAC
       and climate control for the IADU.
   4. IADUs will not require a separate HVAC or firewall.
   5. Owner shall provide a separate address marking for emergency services and mailing services.
   6. Single-family residences with an IADU shall retain the same appearance as a single- family
       residence.
I. Affidavit and Notice of Accessory Dwelling Unit. Applicants for IADUs shall provide an affidavit
   stating that the owner of the property will live in either the primary dwelling or IADU as their
   primary residence. Upon approval of the IADU by the building official, and upon the issuance of a
   business license pursuant to Section 19.42.030. a Notice of Internal Accessory Dwelling Unit
   including the affidavit hall be recorded against the property to provide notice to a future owner of
   the owner occupancy requirement for the IADU. Upon sale of the property, if the new owner wishes
   to continue use of-a previously approved IADU, the new owner shall be required to sign and record
   a new affidavit, update their information with the planning and business license departments, and
   comply with current administrative IADU requirements. A copy of the recorded notice will be
   provided to the applicant when completed.
J. Business Licensing. Prior to renting out any IADU, a business license must be obtained. That license
   must be maintained and renewed annually as long as the unit is rented out.
K. Retention of Single-Family Residence Status. IADUs are part of a single-family residence and shall
   not be treated as a multi-family residence.
L. IADUs may not be separately metered apart from the single-family residence.
M. IADUs may not be sold or subdivided separately from the single-family residence.
N. Short-Term Rental Use Prohibited. Units approved as IADUs shall not be used as short-term rentals.
   Any rentals shall be made for 30 consecutive days or more.


Page 112 of 262
O. Remedies for Violations. In addition to any other legal or equitable remedies available to a
   municipality, White City Metro Township may hold a lien against a property that contains an internal
   accessory dwelling unit in accordance with the provisions and procedures of Utah Code Annotated
   Section 10-9a-530. if the owner of the property violates any of the provisions of that Section or any
   of the provisions of this ordinance.
P. Variances. The land use hearing officer may grant variances to the standards of this chapter in
   accordance with section 19.20. The land use hearing officer may not grant a variance from Building
   Code requirements, owner occupancy provisions. lot square footage requirements. or the number
   of units allowed per lot.




Page 113 of 262
19.42.040 - Accessory Outside Storage.
A. Storage of goods, wares, merchandise, commodities, and any other items located outside of a
   completely enclosed building for more than 24 hours is prohibited except as accessory outside
   storage for public or quasi-public uses, subject to the applicable zoning district and subject to the
   following standards:
   1. The area used for accessory outside storage may not constitute more than fifteen percent (15%)
        of the lot area and may not reduce the access to or usability of areas required for parking for the
        lot.
   2. With the exception of retail sales displays in an approved commercial area, outside storage shall
        be screened from public view by a minimum six-foot (6') high opaque fence. The required
        screening shall be established prior to the use of any area for outside storage.
   3. When outdoor storage occurs in a front yard, side yard, or any other location within the public
        view, a fence or screening of a height and material determined by the Planning Commission
        shall be installed.
B. Outside storage areas shall be paved with asphalt or concrete.
   1. Outside storage areas shall be maintained in a clean, neat, and orderly condition. The required
        screening shall be kept in good repair.
   2. The presence of hazardous materials, junk, junk cars, or debris not usually appurtenant to
        permitted on-site uses is prohibited.
   3. "Accessory Outside Storage" as defined herein does not include construction yards, storage
        yards, or other storage uses where the storage of items outside of an enclosed building is a
        primary characteristic of the use.
19.42.050 – Amateur Communications or Ham Radios.
A. This section shall apply to amateur radio antennas and support structures. The equipment and
   facilities mentioned herein shall be allowed in all within the municipality, and it is the municipality’s
   intent to provide reasonable addommodation for such communications.
B. This section separates regulations governing amateur communications from commercial wireless
   coomunications facilities and related equipments, and establishes providions relating to visual
   mitigation, r-f noise, engineering, residential impact, health, safety, and facility siting. All facilities
   shall comply with the following regulations and all other ordinances of the municipality and any
   pertinent regulations of the federal communications commission (FCC) and the federal aviation
   administration (FAA).
C. Amateur radio antennas are regulated by the federeal communications commission (FCC).
D. A building permit is required for all amateur radio facilities. A copy of the users amateur radio
   license shall be submitted with the building permit application. For antennas and support structures
   that do not exceed the maximum height requirement of the applicable zone, no additional review is
   required.
E. All antennas and support structures shall comply with the required setbacks of the applicable zone
   in which the property is located.
F. No more than one amateur radio antenna and support structure per lot may be installed, and shall
   be located in the rear or side yard, of a home or main structure.




Page 114 of 262
19.42.060 – Animal Hospitals or Clinics.
A. Animal Hospitals and Clinics, where allowed as a permitted or conditional use in the applicable zone,
   are also subject to the following standards:
   1. The use of the building space shall be restricted to medical treatment and incidental care such
       as bathing, the trimming of common household pets on an outpatient basis only, except that
       temporary boarding in connection with medical treatment shall be permitted, and except that
       short-term boarding, defined to be not more than two weeks, may be permitted.
   2. Outdoor animal runs or holding facilities may be approved as an accessory use with a
       conditional use permit. Such runs or holding facilities may not be established within three
       hundred feet (300’) of a property line of a residential zone, an educational institution, or a place
       of worship.
   3. The building space shall be adequately soundproofed to assure that no noise will carry beyond
       the confines of the building or space that the use would occupy.
   4. When outdoor holding facilities are permitted by the underlying zone, the location of barns,
       stables, coops, pens corrals and other holding areas are subject to the requirements for “Animal
       Rights” in this Chapter.
   5. The applicant shall demonstrate that noise, odors, traffic, light pollution, and refuse produced
       by the use can be reasonably mitigated.
19.42.070 - Animal Rights.
A. Animal Rights, where allowed as a permitted or conditional use in the applicable zone, are also
   subject to the following standards:
   1. When a parcel with animal rights contains fewer than 5.25 acres, that parcel may hold no more
       than one animal unit and their seasonal offspring for each ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
   2. When a parcel or group of contiguous parcels with shared ownership contains more than 5.25
       acres, that parcel or group of parcels may hold no more than one animal unit and their seasonal
       offspring for each five thousand (5,000) square feet.
   3. No animals or fowl may be kept or maintained closer than 40 feet to any dwelling on an
       adjacent parcel of land. No barn, stable, coop, pen or corral shall be kept closer than 40 feet to
       any street.
   4. All yards, barns, shelters, cages, areas, places, and premises where domestic livestock, animals,
       or fowl are kept shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition so that flies, dust, or odors
       do not disturb the health of any person or animal or create a nuisance to any adjoining property.
   5. All pens, yards, shelters, cages, areas, and premises where animals are held or kept shall be
       maintained so that no flies, insects, or vermin, rodent harborage, odors, ponded water, the
       accumulation of manure, garbage or other noxious materials do not disturb health and safety of
       any person or animal.
19.42.080 – Apiary.
A. The purpose of the apiary standards is to establish certain requirements for sound beekeeping
   practices. These standards are intended to avoid problems that may otherwise be associated with
   the keeping of bees in populated areas.
B. Apiaries, where allowed as a permitted or conditional use in the applicable zone, are also subject to
   the following standards:


Page 115 of 262
   1. No more than the following number of colonies may be kept on any lot or parcel within the
       municipality, based upon the size of the lot or parcel upon which the apiary is situated:
   2. Less than or equal to nine thousand nine hundred ninety-nine (9,999) square feet in size: one
       colony;
   3. More than nine thousand nine hundred ninety-nine (9,999) square feet but less than or equal to
       nineteen thousand nine hundred ninety-nine (19,999) square feet in size: two colonies;
   4. More than nineteen thousand nine hundred ninety-nine (19,999) square feet in size: one colony
       plus one additional colony for each ten thousand (10,000) square feet square feet of land area.
   5. A site plan shall be submitted for review by Planning and Development Services addressing the
       following:
   6. Any colony situated within twenty-five feet of a public or private property line shall require the
       establishment of a flyway barrier at least six feet in height consisting of a solid wall, fence, dense
       vegetation, or combination thereof as approved by the Director or designee. Said barrier shall
       be along or parallel to the property line extending ten feet beyond the colony in each direction,
       forcing a flight pattern elevation of at least six feet above grade.
   7. A water source shall be provided on the property and no nearer than twenty feet to the hive to
       avoid bees congregating on nearby properties in a search for water.
   8. A sign conspicuously posted setting forth the name and phone number or other identifying
       marks, such as a registration number, of the responsible beekeeper.
   9. In addition to the aforementioned conditions, the applicant shall ensure compliance at all times
       with the following conditions:
   10. All honeybee colonies shall be kept in Langstroth-type hives with removable frames, which shall
       be kept in sound and usable condition.
   11. All honeybee colonies shall be registered with the Utah Department of Agriculture and
       Consumer Services in accordance with the Utah Bee Inspection Act.
   12. Maintenance shall be such that no bee comb or other materials are left upon the grounds of
       the apiary site. Upon removal from the hive, all such materials shall promptly be disposed of in a
       sealed container or placed within a building or other bee-proof enclosure.
   13. All colonies shall be maintained with marked queens. The colony shall be promptly requeened if
       it exhibits unusual aggressive characteristics by stinging or attempting to sting without due
       provocation or swarming. Regardless of colony behavior, each colony shall be requeened on a
       yearly basis.
   14. Each Utah apiary shall meet all requirements and inspection schedules deemed necessary by the
       Utah Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services.
   15. Notwithstanding compliance with the various requirements of this subsection, it shall be
       unlawful for any beekeepers to keep any colony or colonies in such a manner or of such
       disposition as to cause any unhealthy condition, interfere with the normal use and enjoyment of
       human or animal life of others or interfere with the normal use and enjoyment of any public
       property or property of others.
   16. Upon receipt of information that any colony situated within the municipality is not being kept in
       compliance with the requirements of this section, an investigation and subsequent hearing
       before the municipality’s LUHO may result and may result in the revocation of the apiary permit.




Page 116 of 262
19.42.090 – Bars and Clubs.
A. Bars and Clubs, are not permitted in White City, but if ever where allowed as a permitted or
   conditional use in a the applicable zone, are alsobars and clubs are subject to the following
   standards in additional to standards in the applicable zone:




Page 117 of 262
C. A security and operations plan shall be prepared by the applicant and approved by the Unified
   Police Department of Greater Salt Lake and the Director. The security and operations plan shall be
   filed with the Planning and Development Services Department as part of the business license. The
   security and operations plan shall include:
   1. A complaint-response community relations program;
   2. A provision for resolving neighborhood complaints regarding the operations on the business
        premises;
   3. Design and construction requirements to ensure that any sound level originating within the
        premises, measured within fifteen feet (15') from an exterior wall or door thereof, does not
        exceed the maximum permissible sound level set forth in Title 9;
   4. A provision stating that live entertainment shall only be located within an enclosed building
        subject to the foregoing sound limit;
   5. Prohibiting electronically amplified sound in any exterior portion of the premises;
   6. Designation of a location for smoking tobacco outdoors in conformance with State law;
   7. A provision stating that any trash strewn on the premises be collected and deposited in a trash
        receptacle by six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following day, including any smoking and trash or debris
        in parking lot areas;
   8. A provision stating that portable trash receptacles on the premises be emptied daily, and
        automated receptacles be emptied at least weekly. Automated receptacles shall be located only
        within a municipality approved trash storage area; and
   9. A parking management plan which shall include consideration of the impact of parking on
        surrounding neighborhoods.
D. Site and floor plans proposed for the premises shall be reviewed and approved by the Unified Police
   Department of Greater Salt Lake. Such review may require design features for the purpose of
   reducing alcohol related problems such as consumption by minors, driving under the influence, and
   public drunkenness.
E. In addition to the required setbacks, where a bar or club abuts a residentially zoned parcel, an
   additional buffer consisting of vegetative landscaping or walls are required along any property line
   or within any required yard area on the lot where the premises are located.
F. The location of an outdoor smoking area shall be selected to mitigate the effect on neighboring
   residences, businesses, and buildings. Where complaints are made about the outdoor smoking area,
   the Planning Commission may require the outdoor smoking area to be moved to an alternate
   location where it can be shown that the smoking area is adversely affecting neighboring residences,
   businesses, and buildings.
G. Not more than one alcohol related establishment as noted in the table of permitted and conditional
   uses shall be located within five hundred feet (500') of another alcohol related establishment as
   measured linearly without regard to intervening structures from the nearest point on the property
   line of one establishment to the nearest point on the property line of the second establishment.
19.42.100 - Bed and Breakfast Inn.
A. A bed and breakfast inn, where allowed as a permitted or conditional use in the applicable zone, is
   also subject to the following standards:
   1. The structure shall have a residential appearance;
   2. The structure shall be limited to a maximum of two stories in height;


Page 118 of 262
    3. The structure must contain a minimum of five (5) guestrooms, but not more than fifteen (15)
       guestrooms.
    4. Guests using the accommodations or lodging must pay compensation;
    5. A bed and breakfast inn may not provide cooking facilities in any individual guestroom;
    6. The access to the site and the on-site parking shall be available for use and maintained,
       including snow removal, throughout the entire year;
    7. A bed and breakfast inn located in the C-2 Zone may include a restaurant and conference rooms.
19.42.110 – Car and Light Truck Wash.
A. Car and light truck washes, are not permitted in White City, where but if ever allowed as a
   permitted or conditional use in a the applicable zone, Car and light truck washes are also subject to
   the following standards in additional to standards in the applicable zone:
   1. In addition to the applicable landscaping requirements of Chapter 19.50 of this Title,
       landscaping for all car washes shall double the number of plantings required in areas between
       stacking and drive-through areas and the street and residentially zoned property.
   2. The facility shall be designed and operated, including the bay openings and vacuum areas, to
       minimize traffic, noise, and aesthetic impacts to surrounding properties and public view.
   3. Vacuum stations and related equipment are prohibited along any side of a building facing a
       residential use or residential zoning district unless a masonry wall is located along the entire
       property line adjacent to that residential use or zone.
   4. Recycling of water used for vehicle washing is required to be installed and used in perpetuity.
       The use of recycling water systems and the disposal of water fluids and solids shall comply with
       applicable state and federal laws, guidelines and/or standards.
   5. Any water flow resulting from the use of the washing facilities shall be confined to the car wash
       site and disposed of through an on-site drainage system in accordance with applicable laws.
   6. The internal traffic circulation pattern shall be designed so as to preclude traffic congestion on
       public streets in the vicinity and to provide safe ingress, egress, and movement of traffic on the
       site.
   7. The site shall provide space sufficient to allow a minimum of five vehicles to stack while waiting
       to access the car wash prior to reaching the payment area. All stacking shall be maintained on
       site and may not back onto any public right-of-way.
   8. Provisions shall be made for regular on-site maintenance and clean-up of the property.
B. Landscaping for New Construction of Car Washes.
   1. Plantings and related landscape improvements shall be provided in conjunction with drive-
       through service facilities, including automatic car washes, in order to:
       a. Introduce a more aesthetically pleasing approach to these types of vehicular activities on
            newly developed or redeveloped sites;
       b. Better integrate these types of land uses into the established character of surrounding area
            improvements; and
       c. Screen queued vehicles from the view of passing motorists on adjacent roadways.
   2. Trees Required.
       a. One (1) tree shall be planted for each one hundred and twenty-five square feet (125 sq. ft.)
            or more of landscape area. Landscape areas of less than one hundred and twenty-five
            square feet (125 sq. ft.) do not require a tree to be planted.


Page 119 of 262
    3. Groundcover Plantings.
       a. A minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the surface area of each landscape area shall be
          planted in low-growing shrubs, groundcover, perennials, ornamental grasses, or other
          herbaceous plants.
       b. To avoid visibility obstructions, these plantings shall not reach a mature height of more than
          thirty inches (30”).
    4. Mulch.
       a. The entire landscape area shall be mulched to promote plant health and retain water. No
          turf shall be planted in these landscape areas.
19.42.120 – Caretaker Living Quarters.
A. Caretaker living quarters are not permitted in White City, where specifically allowed as an accessory
   use to a commercial or industrial use in the applicable zone, but if ever allowed in a zone caretaker
   living quarters are also subject to the following standards in additional to standards in the applicable
   zone:
   1. The caretaker living quarters shall be located within the principal building on the site.
   2. The caretaker living quarters shall be occupied by the owner or an employee of the business or
        use.
   3. A minimum of one designated parking space shall be provided for the caretaker living quarters,
        in addition to any parking spaces required for the principal use.
   4. The caretaker living quarters shall have no more than two bedrooms.
   5. The caretaker living quarters shall be limited to a maximum of 650 square feet.
   6. The caretaker unit must meet all applicable requirements of the International Residential
        Building Code as adopted by the jurisdiction. Each unit shall have a kitchen suitable for cooking
        and preparing meals, a bathroom with shower and/or bathing facilities, a living room, and a
        bedroom. Studio units are permitted so long as they provide space for the amenities as
        described in this section.
   7. The property owners shall execute and record a covenant and agreement with the jurisdiction
        to revert the property to an industrial use without a caretaker living quarters, including the
        removal of the kitchen facilities of any permanent addition that does not meet the requirements
        of the Zone in which the use is located, after the expiration of any associated permit granted or
        the termination of the business.
19.42.130 – Check Cashing.
A. Check cashing and other non-depository financial institutions, are not permitted in White City,
   where but if ever allowed as a permitted or conditional use in a the applicable zone, check cashing
   and other non-depository financial institutions, are also subject to the following standards in
   additional to standards in the applicable zone:
   1. Establishments shall be located no closer than one mile from other similar establishments.
   2. Use activities shall be limited to short term title loan and short-term consumer installment loan
      business.
   3. The following services are specifically prohibited: "cash for gold", "cash for precious metals",
      and the processing or storage of repossessed vehicles or other repossessed property.
   4. All business activity, including customer queuing, shall be accommodated inside the building.


Page 120 of 262
19.42.140 – Chickens or Ducks, Residential Keeping of or Domestic Fowl.
A. Domestic Fowl or Chickens: Subject to the requirements of this section and any other applicable
   provision of this code, hen chickens and ducks (and no roosters or other types of fowl) regardless of
   age, in the amount set forth below, may be kept on a lot or parcel of land for the sole purpose of
   producing eggs.
B. The number of hen chickens or ducks which may be kept shall be limited based on the size of the lot
   or parcel as follows:
C. Lots with at least twenty thousand (20,000) square feet: Up to sixteen (16) chickens or ducks for the
   first twenty thousand (20,000) square feet and up to eight (8) additional chickens or ducks for each
   ten thousand (10,000) square feet of lot area.
D. Lots with between fifteen thousand (15,000) and nineteen thousand nine hundred ninety-nine
   (19,999) square feet: Up to twelve (12).
E. Lots with between ten thousand (10,000) and fourteen thousand nine hundred ninety-nine (14,999)
   square feet: Up to eight (8).
F. Lots with between six thousand (6,000) and nine thousand nine hundred ninety-nine (9,999) square
   feet: Up to four (4).
G. Lots with less than five thousand nine hundred ninety-nine (5,999) square feet: None.
H. The principal use on the lot or parcel shall be a single- or two-family dwelling.
I. Chickens and ducks shall be confined within a secure enclosure that includes a coop.
J. The coop shall be covered, weatherproof, and well ventilated.
K. The enclosure, including the coop, shall be predator resistant.
L. The coop shall have a minimum floor area of at least two and one-half (21/2) square feet per animal.
M. If the chickens or ducks are not allowed to roam within an enclosure or a properly fenced rear yard
   outside the coop, the coop shall have a minimum floor area of six (6) square feet per chicken.
N. The coop shall be structurally sound and located in a rear yard at least forty feet (40') from any
   neighboring residential structure. The coop shall also meet the minimum setback for accessory
   structures within the applicable zoning district and may not be located nearer any street than the
   primary residential structure. Coops may not be located in any front yard or side yard, corner lot.
O. The coop and enclosure shall be maintained in a neat and sanitary condition and shall be cleaned as
   necessary to prevent any odor detectable at a property line.
P. No chicken or duck shall be permitted to roam outside the coop or enclosure except that a rear yard
   enclosed with a six-foot (6') fence with links or slats spaced at intervals small enough to keep
   chickens enclosed and predators out.
Q. Feed shall be stored in rodent and predator proof containers.
R. Water shall be available to the animals at all times.
S. Animals may not be slaughtered on site unless it can be done humanely and not within the public
   view.
T. A Salt Lake County Animal Services permit is required.
U. Where standards in the Municipal Code may conflict with the standards enforced by Salt Lake
   County Animal Services, the requirements of Salt Lake County Animal Services prevails.
19.42.150 – Child Care.
A. Child Care, where allowed as a permitted or conditional use in the applicable zone, is also subject to
   the following standards:


Page 121 of 262
B. A person exempted from licensing as a childcare center under the Utah Department of Health and
   Human Services Rule R381-60-3 is not subject to land use approval or business licensing. Building
   Code Regulations may still apply.
C. “Child Care, Residential” must be licensed by the Utah Department of Health and Human Services
   under Rule R430-50 et seq. A copy of the Health and Human Services License must be submitted
   prior to the issuance or renewal of a Business License.
D. “Child Care, Licensed Family” must be licensed by the Utah Department of Health and Human
   Services under Rule R430-90 et seq. A copy of the Health and Human Services License must be
   submitted prior to the issuance or reissuance of a Business License.
E. When Child Care is provided from a residence:
   1. The applicant must reside in the home in which the business will be conducted.
   2. The lot shall contain one available on-site parking space not required for use of the dwelling,
        and an additional available on-site parking space not required for use of the dwelling for any
        employee not residing in the dwelling. The location of the parking shall be approved by the
        Director to ensure that the parking is functional and does not change the residential character of
        the lot.
   3. No signs shall be allowed on the dwelling or lot except a nameplate sign.
   4. At no time shall the applicant provide daycare or preschool services for a group of children
        exceeding the maximum number specified for such facility.
   5. The use shall comply with the health department noise regulations.
   6. The play yard may not be located in the front yard and shall only be used between eight a.m.
        and nine p.m.
   7. The use shall comply with all local, state, and federal laws and regulations. (The Life Safety Code
        includes additional requirements if there are more than six children).
   8. Upon complaint that any of the requirements of this section or any other municipal ordinance
        are being violated by a home day care/preschool caregiver, White City shall review the
        complaint and if substantiated may institute a license revocation proceeding under Title 5.
   9. Planning and Development Services shall notify in writing all property owners within a three-
        hundred-foot radius of the caregiver's property concerning the licensing of a home day
        care/preschool at such property.
   10. A “Child Care Center” must be licensed by the Utah Department of Health and Human Services
        under Rule R381-100 et seq. A copy of the Health and Human Services License must be
        submitted prior to the issuance or reissuance of a Business License. A Child Care Center is
        subject to the following requirements:
   11. Minimum Lot Size: Twenty thousand (20,000) square feet.
F. Location Requirements. The child daycare use shall be addressed on and oriented to an arterial
   street as shown on the Municipality’s street plan.
G. Rear Yard Playground Equipment: All outside playground equipment shall be located only in the rear
   yard.
H. Landscape Buffering. Any outside area where children are allowed must be fenced with a solid fence
   at least six feet (6') high. At least ten feet (10') from the fence to the interior portion of the property
   shall be landscaped in such a way that the area cannot be used by the patrons.




Page 122 of 262
19.42.160 – Commercial Plant Nursery.
A. When a Commercial Plant Nursery is allowed as a permitted or conditional use, the growing of
   nursery plants with associated retail sales are subject to the following requirements:
   1. Licensing Requirements. In addition to a business license, a Commercial Plant Nursery must be
       licensed under the Utah Nursery Act, administered by the Utah Department of Agriculture and
       Food.
   2. Site Location Standards. A Commercial Plant Nursery must be located one a site with no less
       than one acre that has primary access to a street designated as a Principal or Minor Arterial on
       the UDOT Functional Classification Map.
B. Operation and development standards.
   1. All buildings, structures or improvements shall be located at least 20 feet from any property
       line.
   2. All buildings and structures may not exceed 20 feet in height.
   3. All storage of non-plant material shall be in a completely enclosed building or within a masonry
       wall enclosure at least six feet in height.
   4. No outdoor telephone bell or paging system may be used.
19.42.170 – Critical Infrastructure Materials.
A. Vested Critical Infrastructure Materials Operations - Conclusive Presumption.
   1. Critical Infrastructure Materials Operations operating in accordance with a legal nonconforming
        use, as determined by Chapter 19.06 of this Title, or a permit issued by the municipality are
        conclusively presumed to be Vested Critical Infrastructure Materials Operations if the Critical
        Infrastructure Materials Operation existed, was conducted, or was otherwise engaged in before
B. January 1, 2019 and before when the municipality prohibited, restricted, or otherwise limited the
   Critical Infrastructure Materials Operations.
   1. A person claiming that a Vested Critical Infrastructure Materials Operation has been established
        has the burden of proof to show by the preponderance of the evidence that the Vested Critical
        Infrastructure Materials Operation has been established.
   2. A Vested Critical Infrastructure Materials Operation:
        a. Runs with the land; and
        b. May be changed to another Critical Infrastructure Materials Operation conducted within the
             scope of a legal nonconforming use, as determined by Chapter 19.06, or the permit for the
             Vested Critical Infrastructure Materials Operation without losing its status as a Vested
             Critical Infrastructure Materials Operation.
C. Rights of A Critical Infrastructure Materials Operator with A Vested Critical Infrastructure Materials
   Operation.
   1. Notwithstanding the municipality’s prohibition, restriction, or other limitation on a Critical
        Infrastructure Materials Operation adopted after the establishment of the Critical Infrastructure
        Materials Operation, the rights of a Critical Infrastructure Materials Operator with Vested
        Critical Infrastructure Materials Operations include the right to:
        a. Use, operate, construct, reconstruct, restore, maintain, repair, alter, substitute, modernize,
             upgrade, and replace equipment, processes, facilities, and buildings; and
        b. Discontinue, suspend, terminate, deactivate, or continue and reactivate, temporarily or
             permanently, all or any part of the Critical Infrastructure Materials Operation.


Page 123 of 262
D. Notice for Subdivisions in Proximity to Vested Critical Infrastructure Materials Operation.
   1. For any new subdivision development located in whole or in part within one-thousand feet
       (1,000 ft.) of the boundary ofany parcel or lot containing a Vested Critical Infrastructure
       Materials Operation, the owner of the development shall provide notice on any plat filed with
       the County Recorder the following notice:
       a. "Vested Critical Infrastructure Materials Operations. This property is located in the vicinity
           of an established Vested Critical Infrastructure Materials Operation in which Critical
           Infrastructure Materials Operations have been afforded the highest priority use status. It
           can be anticipated that such operations may now or in the future be conducted on property
           included in the Critical Infrastructure Materials Protection Area. The use and enjoyment of
           this property is expressly conditioned on acceptance of any annoyance or inconvenience
           that may result from such normal Critical Infrastructure Materials Operations."
E. Abandonment of A Vested Critical Infrastructure Materials Operations.
   1. A Critical Infrastructure Materials Operator may abandon some or all of a Vested Critical
       Infrastructure Materials Operation use only as provided in this Section.
   2. To abandon some or all of a Vested Critical Infrastructure Materials Operation, a Critical
       Infrastructure Materials Operator shall record a written declaration of abandonment with the
       County Recorder.
   3. The written declaration of abandonment shall specify the Vested Critical Infrastructure
       Materials Operations or the portion of the Vested Critical Infrastructure Materials Operations
       being abandoned.
F. Non-Vested Critical Infrastructure Materials Operations.
   1. Conducting a Critical Infrastructure Materials Operation without a permit or determination of a
       non-conforming use shall be determined a violation of this Ordinance. Such operation may not
       be considered a ‘Vested’ Critical Infrastructure Materials Operation and shall be subject to
       remedies and penalties established in the Municipal Code.
19.42.180 – Drive Thru Windows.
A. Purpose: Drive-thrus are not permitted in White City, but if ever allowed as a permitted or
   conditional use in a zone the following standards shall apply in addition to standards in the
   applicable zone. The regulations of this section are intended to allow protect the community for
   drive-through facilities by reducing the negative impacts drive-thrus they may create. These impacts
   include noise from idling cars and voice amplification equipment, lighting, and queued traffic
   interfering with on-site and off-site traffic and pedestrian flow. The specific purposes of this section
   are to:
   1. Reduce noise, lighting, and visual impacts on abutting uses, particularly residential uses;
   2. Promote safer and more efficient on site vehicular and pedestrian circulation; and
   3. Reduce conflicts between queued vehicles and traffic on adjacent streets.
B. Applicability And Permit Requirements: These regulations shall apply to all new drive-through
   facilities, any rebuild or replacement of an existing structure containing a drive-thru facility or
   modification to an existing building that includes altering the location of an existing drive-through
   window, expands the floor area by twenty five percent (25%) or more of the gross floor area or one
   thousand (1,000) square feet, whichever is less and/or the parking requirement increases as
   required by this title.


Page 124 of 262
C. Additional Application Materials Required: In addition to the site plan and standard application
   requirements, an applicant for a business with drive-through facilities shall submit a site plan that
   includes: a parking and circulation plan, driveway locations, and the placement of audio equipment
   (if this type of equipment will be used).
D. Capacity and Design Standards for Drive Thru and Drive Up Facilities are found in Chapter 19.08.
19.42.190 – Home Occupations.
A. Home Occupations are subject to the following standards:
   1. Restrictions. The following business activities are prohibited from taking place at a residential
      dwelling unit:
      a. Commercial uses of a primarily retail nature or that rely on walk up traffic;
      b. Vehicle, trailer, or boat repair or maintenance, including body and fender work;
      c. Vehicle sales or rentals;
      d. Towing or impound operations, junkyards, accessory outdoor storage, or storage yards;
      e. Lawn mower or small engine repair;
      f. Major appliance repair (washers, dryers, refrigerators, etc.).
      g. Any use involving the storage or sale of inflammable, explosive or hazardous materials;
      h. Mortuaries or crematoriums;
      i. Sexually oriented businesses;
      j. Welding, iron works, foundries, manufacturing, or assembly uses.
   2. Exemptions. The following activities are exempted from or not subject to regulation under this
      chapter:
      a. Uses other than a home business that are listed as permitted or conditional uses in
          residential zones;
      b. Garage or yard sales, provided:
          (1) The sale is held for not more than three consecutive days;
          (2) No more than two sales are held per year at the same location; and
          (3) No consignment goods are offered for sale;
   3. Standards. The following standards apply to home businesses:
      a. The primary use of the dwelling shall be residential.
      b. The person operating the business shall reside in the dwelling at least nine months per year.
      c. For lots that front on a right of way less than 80 feet wide, only the business operator and
          his/her immediate family members who reside in the home shall be employed to do any
          work in the home, whether compensated or not, in conjunction with the business. For lots
          that front on a right of way of 80 feet or greater, one non-resident employee is allowed to
          be employed to do work in the home.
      d. Customers shall be allowed at the residence on an appointment only basis between the
          hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. Group lessons or sessions may not exceed six people at a
          time.
      e. Exterior remodeling that would change the residential appearance of the home is
          prohibited. Interior structural alterations made to the home are allowed only if they are
          consistent with its primary use as a dwelling.




Page 125 of 262
       f. Any sale of goods not produced as part of the home occupation shall constitute a clearly
          incidental part of the operation of the home occupation. There may be no display of goods
          produced by the home occupation observable from outside the dwelling.
       g. All business activities shall take place entirely within the dwelling and/or attached garage
          and may not occupy more than 25% or more than 500 square feet, whichever is less, of the
          floor area of the home.
       h. Storage or display of supplies, inventory, equipment, or materials in any portion of the yard
          or within an open detached accessory building is prohibited. Explosive or combustible
          materials may not be stored or used in association with a Home Occupation.
       i. The home business may use only those tools, equipment, or electric apparatus that are
          commonly used as accessories to or in conjunction with residential uses.
       j. The home business may not emit or create excessive odors, smoke, dust, heat, fumes, light,
          glare, sounds, noises, vibrations, or interference with radio and/or television reception.
       k. In addition to the parking spaces required for the residents of the dwelling, off-street
          parking for customers and for an employee, if allowed under subsection 3 above, shall be
          provided in the driveway or garage.
       l. Any nameplate sign may not exceed three square feet, may not be illuminated, and shall be
          attached to a wall or window of the dwelling.
       m. Vehicles: No vehicle larger than a passenger car, van, or one-ton pickup truck may be
          brought to, parked on, or stored on the property in conjunction with a home business
          except that:
          (1) Occasional deliveries and pick-ups by commercial small package delivery organizations
               such as the USPS, FedEx, UPS of DHL are exempt from this requirement.
          (2) Tow trucks, tanker trucks, box vans, delivery vans, and similar vehicles may not be
               stored on site. Such vehicles may be located off site in an approved and licensed off-site
               storage location.
          (3) One trailer may be used in association with a Home Occupation in accordance with the
               following standards:
               (A) The maximum body length of an enclosed trailer is 20 feet. The maximum body
                    length of an open trailer is 16 feet.
               (B) Trailers shall be garaged or stored on private property and may not be located
                    within the Front Yard setback or, for Corner Lots, in either the Front or Side Yard
                    setback.
               (C) Trailers may have one sign covering the lesser of 24 square feet or 30 percent of the
                    side panel of the trailer.
       n. The home occupation applicant must either be the bona fide owner of the home (as shown
          on the current Salt Lake County tax assessment rolls) or if the applicant is renting or leasing
          the home, the homeowner must provide written permission allowing the applicant to
          conduct a business in the home. Said letter of permission must be signed and notarized by
          the homeowner.
       o. The property address (house number) shall be clearly posted on the home using letters at
          least four inches in height in a color that contrasts with the color of the building.
       p. The condition of the dwelling and landscaped areas shall be well maintained.



Page 126 of 262
       q. The activities of the home occupation may not involve the use of hazardous materials or
          chemicals in amounts that will increase the hazard of fire, explosion, or safety to the
          structure the use is conducted in, adjacent structures, or the occupants thereof.
    4. Regulations and Enforcement.
       a. All home businesses shall obtain a White City business license.
       b. An application for a home business, accompanied by the application fee, shall be submitted
          to Planning and Development Services. The application shall be approved upon the
          applicant agreeing to comply with the standards set forth in this section.
       c. A change of business ownership or relocation to a new address is considered a new business
          and requires separate approval.
       d. The home business license shall be renewed each year that the home occupation is in
          operation.
       e. All home businesses shall be reviewed for compliance with the provisions of this Chapter.
          Noncompliance may result in revocation of the home business license.
       f. The business owner is responsible for complying with all applicable health, fire, building and
          safety codes.
       g. Violations of the standards set forth in this section shall be subject to the civil penalties
          outlined in section 19.08.070. In addition, a business license revocation hearing may be
          scheduled at the discretion of the Director for any business found to be in violation of the
          home business standards or any other municipal ordinance.
19.42.200 – Hotel
A. Hotels are not permitted in White City, if ever allowed as permitted or conditional use in a zone, the
   following standards shall apply in addition to the standards in the applicable zone.The following
   standards shall apply to all hotels, motels and other similar lodging facilities that are new
   development, redevelopment, changed from another use, or retrofits of existing buildings:
   1. The minimum number of floors within the building shall be three. Any Basement space may not
        count toward meeting the minimum floor requirement.
   2. Where stucco or fiber cement siding are used as exterior materials, at least 25% of the exterior
        shall be brick, stone or another comparable material approved by the Director or Designee.
   3. At least five of the following amenities shall be included:
        a. Swimming pool
        b. Hot tub
        c. Fitness Room
        d. Business Center
        e. Meetings Rooms
        f. Common Breakfast Space
        g. Restaurant and/or Bar
        h. Substantial Gardens or a Reading Room
   4. The minimum area per guest room shall be 280 square feet.
   5. Each guest room shall include a restroom.
   6. Hotels, motels, or other lodging facilities are encouraged to co-locate with complementary uses
        such as dining, shopping and entertainment are within close proximity.




Page 127 of 262
    7. In addition to meeting these standards, existing buildings or structures being converted to be or
       include a hotel, motel, or other lodging facilities shall be brought into conformance with all
       applicable building codes.
    8. All guest rooms shall be accessed from interior corridors.
19.42.210 – Household Pets.
Household pets are prohibited in watershed areas, primary water supply recharge areas, or drinking
water source protection areas, as determined by the Salt Lake Valley Health Department or Department
of Environmental Quality.
19.42.220 – Kennel, Commercial.
A. Commercial Kennels are not permitted in White City, if ever allowed as a permitted or conditional
   use in a zone, the following standards shall apply in addition to the standards in the applicable zone
   :
   1. The site shall be adequate in size and shape to accommodate the type of boarding cats or
       dogs/kennels proposed and all yards, walls, parking, landscaping, and other required
       improvements.
   2. The use may not substantially lessen the usability or suitability of adjacent or nearby properties
       for planned or zoned uses.
   3. Noise produced by the proposed use shall be in compliance with Title 9 of this code. When the
       animals are proposed for indoor accommodations, soundproofing shall be provided sufficient to
       prevent noise and vibrations from penetrating into surrounding properties or buildings.
   4. All commercial kennels and catteries shall be designed and maintained in compliance with Title
       8.
   5. The property shall be maintained in such a way so as not to create conditions that attract flies or
       create other nuisances in accordance with Title 9.
   6. The number of dogs or cats permitted for boarding or kenneling shall be as determined through
       the discretionary permit process, based upon site size, design and compatibility with
       surrounding uses.
   7. The area where the dogs or cats are penned shall be screened with a block wall and a secure
       gate.
   8. An isolated area shall be provided to animals that are sick or diseased.
19.42.230 - Outdoor Dining Appurtenant to A Permitted Restaurant Use.
A. Outdoor dining is not permitted in White City, if ever allowed when listed as a permitted or
   conditional use in a the applicable zone and appurtenant to a permitted restaurant use, is subject to
   the following requirements the following standards shall apply in addition to the standards in the
   applicable zone:
B. A useable pedestrian sidewalk that provides continuous passage through the outdoor dining area of
   at least five feet (5’) wide must be maintained as unobstructed by fire hydrants, trees, poles,
   meters, fountains, etc., and any proposed seating.
C. Restaurants serving liquor must be able to contain distribution to the site.
D. Public facilities, such as drinking fountains, fire hydrants, trash cans, etc., may not be obstructed.
   Public facilities may not be defaced or damaged. Damaged facilities will be restored at the property
   owner's expense.

Page 128 of 262
E. Crosswalks may not be obstructed.
F. Dining may not interfere with adjacent business access, the growth or maintenance of street trees
   and maintenance of public facilities. Site distance for vehicles and pedestrians may not be
   obstructed.
G. Minimum Conditions of approval:
   1. There may be no addition in the number or arrangement of tables on public property without
       prior approval.
   2. Tables and chairs may not be located, other than approved in the initial application, so as to
       further encroach onto the designated public way.
   3. The management of the restaurant is responsible for the removal of litter, debris, snow, and
       sidewalk cleaning.
   4. There may be no additional signage, other than normal menus and logos on umbrella canopies.
   5. Restore any damage to public facilities and clean public facilities each day from food and drink
       spills and debris.
   6. Sidewalk dining is subject to inspection by the Planning and Development Services for
       compliance.
   7. Other dining facilities, such as cooking implements, coolers, serving tables, bars, etc., may not
       be allowed.
19.42.240 – Pawn Shop.
A. Pawn shops are not permitted in White City, if ever allowed as a permitted or conditional use in a
   zone the following standards shall apply in addition to the standards in the applicable zone:purpose
   of regulating pawn shop establishments is to ensure security and compatibility with surrounding
   uses and properties and to avoid any impacts associated with such uses.
   1. Pawn shop establishments, when listed as a permitted or conditional use in the applicable zone,
        are subject to the following requirements:
   2.1. Site location standards.
        a. The business may not be located within 600 feet of a public or private school (kindergarten
            through twelfth grade), church or other religious building, or public park, as measured from
            any point upon the outside walls of the building or building lease space containing the
            business to the nearest property line of the school, church or other religious building, or
            park site.
        b. The business may not be located within 100 feet of any existing residential dwelling or
            property zoned for residential uses as measured from any point upon the outside walls of
            the building or building lease space containing the business to the nearest property line of
            the residential zoned property.
        c. The business shall be in a location that is fully visible from a public street with an
            unobstructed view from the public street for public safety.
   3.2. Operation and development standards.
        a. The business shall have lighting to provide illumination for security and safety of parking and
            access areas in accordance with this Title.
        b. The business window may not be tinted or obscured in any way, including by temporary or
            painted window signs, and the interior lighting of the business shall remain at adequate
            levels to clearly see into the business from the exterior of the business.


Page 129 of 262
        c. A sign shall be posted in the front of the business indicating that no loitering is permitted
           per Municipal Code.
19.42.250 – Reiki.
A. Reiki is not permitted in White City, if ever allowed as a permitted or conditional use in a zone, the
   following standards shall apply in addition to the standards in the applicable zone:Reiki, where
   allowed as a permitted or conditional use in the applicable zone, is also subject to the following
   standards:
   1. Hours of operation shall be between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
   2. Each practitioner that is not an employee listed on the business licensee shall have a municipal
        business license.
   3. Neither clients nor practitioners shall appear on the premises in a state of nudity or semi-nudity,
        as defined in the Sexually Oriented Business Chapter of Title 5 of this Code.
   4. The premises may not be used for any conduct that violates Section 58-47h-501 of the Utah
        Massage Therapy Practice Act (2013) or sexual conduct that violates Title 76 of the Utah
        Criminal Code.
   5. If a Reiki Practitioner, while performing the “spiritual healing art”, involves the use of any of the
        methods outlined in the scope of practice of Massage Therapy defined by Utah State Code, then
        the Reiki Practitioner must be licensed as a Massage Therapist.
19.42.260 – Residential Facilities for Persons with A Disability.
Residential Facilities for Persons with a Disability are subject to the following standards:
A. Licensing. The licensing requirements for "residential treatment programs" and "residential support
   programs" are defined and administered pursuant to state law and the Utah Administrative Code.
B. Exceptions to Permitting Requirements. Four (4) or less unrelated individuals who share
   housekeeping responsibilities in a single dwelling do not require a land use permit but function as a
   "family," as defined in Section 19.04.020 of this Title.
C. Reasonable Accommodation. The Director or Designee shall consider requests for a permitted
   use/reasonable accommodation for a “Residential Facility for Persons With a Disability”. Residential
   Facilities may be permitted in any zone where single-family residential uses are permitted, provided
   that:
   1. The Residential Facility meets or will meet all program, physical facility, and licensure
       requirements of the State Department of Human Services or Health Department;
   2. The Residential Facility meets all applicable municipal standards, licensing and zoning
       requirements;
   3. The Residential Facility may not house persons who are involuntarily residing therein or who are
       residing therein as a part of or in lieu of confinement, rehabilitation, or treatment in a
       correctional facility;
   4. The applicant provides sufficient evidence that the requested accommodation is necessary to
       allow disabled individuals reasonable, non-discriminatory, federally mandated housing
       opportunities in the relevant zone. Evidence may include information relating to the history,
       management, financial feasibility, and therapeutic benefits of the Residential Facility, and
       applicable law; and



Page 130 of 262
   5. The Director or Designee may not deny the application based upon reasonably anticipated
       detrimental effects to the community so long as reasonable conditions are proposed to mitigate
       such anticipated detrimental effects.
D. Termination. A Residential Facility use permitted by this Title is nontransferable and shall be subject
   to revocation by the appropriate land use authority if:
   1. The facility is devoted to a use other than a Residential Facility for Persons with A Disability;


   2. The Residential Facility exceeds the maximum number of residents specified and approved in
       the original application, changes the disability classification under State Code, or remodels or
       expands without first receiving the applicable permits; or
   3. The Residential Facility is not licensed by the State Department of Health or Department of
       Human Services.
E. Day Treatment. To avoid excessive traffic, overburdened on street parking, and related impacts
   altering the residential character of a neighborhood, no day treatment for non-residents shall be
   permitted in Residential Facilities for Persons with a Disability in the R-1 or R-2 Zones.
19.42.260 – Retail Shops or Galleries where Primary Product is Produced on Site.
A. Retail Shops or Galleries where Primary Product is Produced on Site, where allowed as a permitted
   or conditional use in the applicable zone, are also subject to the following standards:
   1. The applicant shall demonstrate that noise, odors, traffic, light pollution, and refuse produced
       by the use shall be reasonably mitigated.
   2. Storage of products may not block front windows nor spill outdoors onto the property.
19.42.270 – Retail Tobacco Specialty Business.
A. For the purposes of this Section:
   1. “Community Location” means:
       a. Public or private kindergarten, elementary, middle, junior high, or high School;
       b. Licensed child-care facility or preschool;
       c. Trade or technical School;
       d. Church, Mosque, Temple, or other Religious Building;
       e. Public library;
       f. Public playground;
       g. Public Park;
       h. Youth center or other space used primarily for youth-oriented activities;
       i. Public recreational facility; or
       j. Public arcade.
   2. “Retail Tobacco Specialty Business” means a Commercial establishment in which:
       a. The sale of tobacco products accounts for more than 35% of the total annual gross receipts
           for the establishment;
       b. Food and beverage products, excluding gasoline sales, is less than 45% of the total annual
           gross receipts for the establishment; and
       c. The establishment is not licensed as a pharmacy under Title 58, Chapter 17b, Pharmacy
           Practice Act.
   3. “Tobacco product” means:

Page 131 of 262
        a. Any cigar, cigarette, or electronic cigarette as defined in Utah Code Annotated Section 76-
            10-101;
        b. A tobacco product as defined in Utah Code Annotated Section 59-14-102, including:
            (1) Chewing tobacco; or
            (2) Any substitute for a tobacco product, including flavoring or additives to tobacco; and
        c. Tobacco paraphernalia as defined in Utah Code Annotated Section 76-10-104.1.
B. A Retail Tobacco Specialty Business may not be located within:
   1. 1,000 feet of a Community Location;
   2. 600 feet of another Retail Tobacco Specialty Business; or
   3. 600 feet of a Residential or Agricultural Zone or Use.
C. For the purposes of subsection B above, the proximity requirements shall be measured in a straight
   line from the nearest Entrance of the Retail Tobacco Specialty Business to the nearest property
   boundary of the Community Location, Retail Tobacco Specialty Business, or Agricultural or
   Residential Zone or Use, without regard for intervening Structures or Zoning districts.
D. A Retail Tobacco Specialty Business that has a business license and was operating lawfully on or
   before May 8, 2012, is exempt from the requirements of subsection (2) if said business meets all of
   the following criteria:
   1. The business license has been renewed continuously without relapse or permanent revocation;
   2. The Retail Tobacco Specialty Business has not closed for business or otherwise suspended the
        sale of Tobacco Products for more than 60 consecutive days;
   3. The Retail Tobacco Specialty Business does not substantially change the business premises or its
        business operation; and
   4. The Retail Tobacco Specialty Business maintains the right to operate under the terms of other
        applicable laws, including but not limited to Zoning Ordinances, building codes, and the business
        license that was issued prior to May 8, 2012.
19.42.280 – Self Service Fuel Station.
A. Purpose. The purpose of regulating Sself-service fuel stations are not permitted in White City, if ever
   allowed as a permitted or conditional use in a zone the following standards shall apply in addition to
   standards in the applicable zone is to ensure compatibility of such uses with surrounding uses and
   properties and to avoid any impacts associated with such uses:.
B. Site Organization.
   1. Building Locations. Service station buildings, e.g., convenience store structures should be
       located on the corner of the property with the pump islands located to the interior of the site to
       give the facility a good architectural presence from the street(s).
   2. Driveways.
       a. Driveway cuts shall be limited and located as far from the intersection as possible and are
           required to be shared with adjacent uses and/or properties, where possible, to eliminate
           traffic conflicts at intersections.
       b. Driveways shall be designed and located to ensure a safe and efficient movement of traffic
           and pedestrians on and off the site.
       c. No more than one two-way driveway shall be permitted per one hundred (100) linear feet
           of street frontage.
   3. On Site Vehicle Storage. Storage of vehicles is prohibited.


Page 132 of 262
C. Special Requirements.
   1. Patron Vehicle Servicing. Areas should be provided on self- service station sites to allow patrons
       to service their vehicles with air and water. These facilities should be located where they do not
       obstruct circulation patterns of the site.
   2. Car Washes (Accessory to An Automotive Service Station).
       a. A car wash structure, where provided, shall meet the minimum setback standards for the
           zoning district in which it is located.
       b. Automatic car wash facilities may provide areas for vacuuming and drying of vehicles upon
           exiting the car wash structure. Such areas shall be located where they do not obstruct
           circulation patterns of the site.
       c. A minimum of eight feet (8') of space shall be provided between the exit of the car wash
           structure and any cross driveway to allow for sight distance of vehicles in the crossing
           driveway.
D. Pump Island Canopy Design.
   1. Setbacks. Fuel pump island canopies located at service stations shall be set back a minimum of
       twenty feet (20') from all front property lines.
   2. Vehicle Stacking. Each pump island should generally include stacking space for a minimum of
       two (2) vehicles (total of 40 feet) on site so that driveways within the site or adjacent street
       areas are not utilized for waiting customers. Pump island stacking may not encroach upon
       required parking space back out areas (24 feet minimum) or two-way driveways for general site
       circulation (24 feet minimum).
   3. Lighting. All canopy illumination and lighting directed toward the ground shall be recessed into
       the canopy.
   4. Vertical Clearance. There shall be a minimum clearance of 13.5 feet to the bottom of the canopy
       above grade.
   5. Height. Vertical canopy fascia utilized for signage may not exceed four feet (4') in height, and the
       height to the top of the vertical fascia may not exceed twenty feet (20') from grade unless
       otherwise approved by the Director.
   6. Pumps Associated with a Self Service Fuel Station are subject to the parking requirements of
       Chapter 19.48 and all other applicable ordinances.
E. Architectural Design.
   1. All building elevations shall comply with applicable standards.
   2. The length of pump canopies shall be minimized as much as possible. If the site allows, pump
       canopies shall be broken up into two (2) separate locations. This reduces the effect of pump
       canopies dominating other buildings on the site.
   3. Pump island structural columns and canopy fascia shall use the same architectural materials as
       the main building, e.g., stone, brick, etc., and shall run from ground level to the bottom of the
       canopy.
F. Speaker Boxes. Speaker boxes designed to communicate from pump islands may not be audible on
   any residential property adjacent to the business and shall comply with the applicable noise
   ordinances
G. Drive-thru businesses and activities conducted on site, where permitted, shall be subject to the
   drive thru standards in this Chapter.



Page 133 of 262
19.42.290 – Self-Service Storage Facilities, Outdoor.
A. Outdoor Self Service Storage Facilities are not permitted in White City, where if ever allowed as a
   permitted or conditional use in a the applicable zone, outdoor self-service storage facilities are also
   subject to the following standards:
   1. Self-storage unit facilities may not be visually prominent from the street. Facilities shall be
       located behind another building or buildings containing another permitted use. An applicant
       may propose a portion of the facility not be located behind another building or buildings if a
       forty-foot (40') landscape buffer is provided between the facility and the street.
   2. Each self-storage unit facility shall include a masonry wall along the entirety of each street
       frontage.
   3. No garage door or door accessing a unit may face a public street.
   4. Storage units may not exceed one-story and twenty-four feet (24') in height.
   5. In no case may any storage unit be used for human habitation or the housing of animals.
   6. No business activity of any kind may be transacted from within a storage unit.
   7. No outdoor storage or storage containers are permitted within the self-storage facility.
   8. The masonry wall of the storage units may be constructed on the side and/or rear property lines
       when not abutting property in any residential zone.
   9. A Self-Storage Facility under 60,000 square feet may have one Caretaker’s Dwelling. A Self-
       Storage Facility with at least 60,000 square feet and less than 90,000 square feet may have two
       Caretaker’s Dwellings. A Self-Storage Facility with 90,000 square feet or more may have three
       Caretaker’s Dwellings.
19.42.300 – Sexually Oriented Business or Activity.
A. Purpose: The purpose of this Section is to establish reasonable and uniform regulations for sexually
     oriented businesses, their location, and signage, and to mitigate adverse impacts to the community
     consistent with state and federal law.
B. For the purposes of this Section:
     1. “Community Location” means:
         a. Public or private kindergarten, elementary, middle, junior high, or high School;
         b. Licensed child-care facility or preschool;
         c. Trade or technical School;
         d. Church, Mosque, Temple, or other Religious Building;
         e. Public library;
         f. Public playground;
         g. Public Park;
         h. Youth center or other space used primarily for youth-oriented activities;
         i. Public recreational facility; or
         a.j. Public arcade.
B.C. Business Permitted—Restrictions:
C.D.     Other than outcall services and nude and seminude dancing agencies, sexually oriented
     businesses shall be permitted only in areas zoned C-2, subject to the following additional
     restrictions:
     1. Sexually oriented businesses shall be subject to conditional use requirements.
     2. No sexually oriented business may be located:


Page 134 of 262
          a. Within 1,000 feet from a community location or any school, public park, religious institution,
              or other sexually oriented business;
          b. Within 6300 feet from an agricultural or residential boundary;
          c. Distance requirements for this Section shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to
              intervening structures, from the nearest property line of the school, public park, religious
              institution, agricultural or residential zoning district, or other sexually oriented business, and
              to the nearest property line of the sexually oriented business.
     3. Outcall services and nude and seminude dancing agencies shall be permitted only in zones
          where offices are allowed. Customers are not allowed to visit such an office.
D.E.Sign restrictions. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in Chapter 19.52 of this Title,
     signs for sexually oriented businesses shall be limited as follows:
     1. No more than one exterior sign shall be allowed.
     2. No sign shall be allowed to exceed 18 square feet.
     3. Signs shall contain alphanumeric copy only.
     4. No animation shall be permitted on or around any sign, or on the exterior walls or roof of such
          premises.
     5. No descriptive art or designs depicting any activity related to, or inferring, the nature of the
          business shall be allowed on any sign.
     6. Only flat signs shall be permitted.
     7. Painted wall advertising is prohibited.
     8. Other than the signs specifically allowed by this section, the sexually oriented business may not
          construct any temporary sign, banner, light or other device designed to draw attention to the
          business location.
E.F. Severability. If any provision of this section, or the application thereof to any person or
     circumstances, is held to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent
     jurisdiction, such invalidity may not affect other provisions hereof which can be implemented
     without the invalid provision. To this end the provisions of this section are declared to be severable.
19.42.310 – Short Term Rental.
A. Short Term Rentals are allowed, provided that:
   1. Short term rentals are listed as a permitted or conditional use in the applicable zone;
   2. The on-site parking and the access to the site are available for use and maintained, including
      snow removal, throughout the entire year; and
   3. The dwelling unit is served by an approved drinking water supply and public sewer system that
      are capable of supporting the use throughout the entire year and are approved by the Health
      Department prior to issuance of a license.
19.42.320 – Stable, Public or Private.
A. Stable, either public or private, where allowed as a permitted or conditional use in the applicable
   zone shall be subject to the following standards:
   1. Minimum Area. The minimum area required for a public or private sable shall be 6,000 square
       feet for one horse plus one thousand square feet (1,000) square feet for each additional horse
       on the property.




Page 135 of 262
    2. Exercise Area Required. For any stable, public or private, a fenced open space area, either
         roofed or unroofed, with a minimum area of five-thousand square feet or more shall be
         provided somewhere on the property.
    3. Maximum Number of Horses. The maximum number of horses allowed on the property shall be
         one (1) horse for every one thousand (1,000) square feet or land designated for the use and not
         including the area required for exercise in 19.42.300 A. 2.
    4. Stall Area. Stalls for a public or private stable may be a minimum of six-hundred (600) square
         feet.
    5. Stall Setbacks. All stalls on the property shall follow the accessory building setbacks, area,
         height, and lot coverage requirements in the applicable zone.
    1.6. Sanitation and Maintenance. All stables and horse facilities are required to comply with health
         department regulations. Each property is responsible for maintenance fo sanitary condition,
         including, but not limited to the cleaning of stables, barns, corrals, and any other areas that
         animals have access to. Animal waste shall not be allowed to accumulate, run off, leach, so as to
         create a nuisance or be offensive to other persons in the vicinity or harm nearby water sources
         or storm drains. Each lot and structure that houses horses shall be maintained so that there is
         no standing surface water allowed to accumulate within the areas where the animals are kept.
19.42.330 – Storage and Salvage Yards.
A. Storage Yards and Salvage Yards are not permitted in White City, when listed if ever allowed as a
   permitted or conditional use in a the applicable zone, storage or salvage yards are subject to the
   following standards in addition to the standards in the applicable zone requirements:
   1. No portion of the storage area shall be located within three hundred feet (300') of any
        Residential Zoning District or use lot line.
   2. Any outdoor storage area shall be completely enclosed by a fence or wall no less than six feet
        (6') in height, constructed of a sturdy, durable material and sufficiently opaque to ensure that
        the stored material is not visible from outside the storage area. The fence or wall shall have a
        minimum of two (2) non-transparent gates not exceeding forty-eight feet (48') in width
        providing access to the storage area for vehicles but may not allow direct view of the storage
        area from adjacent properties or streets. Said fence or wall shall be continuously maintained in
        good condition and shall contain only approved signs.
   3. Each salvage or storage yard must include a masonry wall along the entirety of each street
        frontage. This wall shall be constructed at the front setback line required for buildings in the
        underlying zone. The storage or salvage area must be no closer to street than the front facade of
        the building. The Director may accept a landscaped berm in lieu of the masonry wall if the
        height, width, and berm landscaping fully screen the storage or salvage areas. A berm allowed in
        lieu of a masonry wall shall include live plant material that covers no less than fifty percent
        (50%) of the berm with grasses, bushes, ground cover or tree canopies. Trees and bushes must
        be at least twenty five percent (25%) evergreen.
   4. Stored materials may not be stacked higher than six feet (6') and shall be stored in a manner so
        as not to be visible from adjoining properties or rights-of-way. In no case shall salvage or junk be
        stored at a height exceeding the height of the storage area fence or wall. Operational vehicles
        and motorized equipment are not subject to the height requirement for storage. No inoperable




Page 136 of 262
         vehicle or equipment shall be stored within the outdoor storage areas. Permitted salvage yards
         are the only allowable storage areas for inoperable vehicles or equipment.
    5.   Outdoor storage shall be kept and maintained in a neat and orderly manner. Outdoor storage
         may not include dirt, manure, gravel, rocks, sand, bark, or similar materials, unless the items are
         stored in bags, on pallets, or on other individually sealed containers.
    6.   A management office shall be provided on site. A caretaker unit may be permitted for security
         personnel or on-site operator.
    7.   Conditions within the storage area shall be controlled to minimize the hazards of fire and other
         threats to health and safety. Conditions within the storage area shall be controlled to minimize
         the hazards of fire and other threats to health and safety. Product, salvage, or other storage
         shall be stored in rows with a continuously looping drive aisles with a minimum width of twenty
         feet (20').
    8.   Requests for a permit for a salvage yard shall also require submission of a detailed proposal
         identifying the predominant type of salvage to be received, the methods of separation and/or
         recycling, and ultimate destination of all salvaged, recycled, and waste materials. The applicant
         shall be required to submit written materials outlining measures taken to comply with all
         necessary state, county, and municipal laws.


    9. All batteries shall be removed from any vehicle, and all radiator and fuel tanks shall be drained
        prior to the vehicle being placed in the storage yard. Salvaged batteries, oil and other such
        substances shall be removed by a licensed disposal company and be stored in a manner which
        prevents leakage of battery fluid. No fluids removed from vehicles shall be applied as a dust
        control method, or otherwise allowed to be discharged upon the ground.
    10. Vehicle parts may not be stored, loaded, unloaded, or dismantled outside the fence enclosing
        the salvage yard.
    11. In order to protect surrounding areas, business operations, including loading and unloading
        operations shall be limited to daylight hours.
19.42.340 – Towing Services and Impound Lots.
A. Towing Services and Impound Lots are not permitted in White City, when listed if ever allowed as a
   permitted or conditional use in the applicable a zone, towing services or impound lots are subject to
   the following standards in addition to the standards in the applicable zone requirements:
   1. No impound or tow yard shall be closer than 300 feet to any property in a residential or mixed-
       use zone, as measured from property line to property line.
   2. The impound or tow storage yard shall be entirely enclosed by a six foot (6’) decorative masonry
       wall.
   3. A minimum 20-foot landscaped setback shall be provided along all street frontages.
   4. All vehicles within the impound yard shall have ground contact of all wheels. No stacking of
       vehicles shall be permitted.
   5. The surface of the storage yard shall be covered with an all-weather surface. Any stormwater or
       other runoff from the site shall be contained on the site and disposed of through an on-site
       drainage system, in conformance with applicable regulations to enforce the requirements of the
       National Pollutant Discharge Elimination Systems (NPDES) permit.


Page 137 of 262
    6. The business shall be operated in compliance with the provisions of Chapter 9.48 – Noise
       Control.
    7. The impound lot or tow yard and the associated landscaping, walls and surfaced areas shall be
       maintained in good repair, in a clean, neat, and orderly condition.
    8. All such areas shall be provided with internal circulation, safe entrances and exits in compliance
       with Title 14.
    9. No dismantling or demolition of automobiles or other vehicles shall be conducted on the
       premises.
19.42.350 – Vehicle and Equipment Repair.
A. Purpose. The purpose of regulating Vvehicle repair facilities are not permitted in White City, if ever
   allowed as a permitted or conditional use in a zone, vehicle repair services will be subject to the
   following standards in addition to the standards in the applicable zone is to ensure compatibility of
   such uses with surrounding uses and properties and to avoid any impacts associated with such uses:.
   1. All Minor, Major, and Commercial and Industrial Vehicle and Equipment Repair uses are subject
        to the following minimum requirements:
        a. A minimum site area of twenty thousand square feet (20,000 sf) is required.
        b. On- and off-site improvements shall be in conformance with the development standards of
            this Title.
        c. No part of the use shall be located within 100 feet of a residential zone.
        d. All vehicle and equipment repair activities shall be conducted within an enclosed Building.
        e. The site shall be developed with permanent, related buildings. No trailers or temporary
            modular units are permitted.
        f. Except as provided in herein below, inoperable vehicles, tires, parts, and service equipment
            may not be stored outside.
        g. Inoperable vehicles and equipment awaiting service may be temporarily parked on site in
            accordance with the following standards:
            (1) Inoperable vehicles and equipment may not be located within any minimum required
                 parking stalls and drive aisles and may not block any traffic flow.
            (2) Inoperable vehicles and equipment shall be screened from any adjacent streets by a
                 building or solid masonry wall not less than six feet in height.
            (3) Inoperable vehicles and equipment must be located on asphalt or concrete.
            (4) Inoperable vehicles may not be stored on the property longer than 30 days.
   2. Commercial and Industrial Vehicle and Equipment Repair establishments must be located along
        and have primary access from an Arterial or Major Collector Street on the UDOT Functional
        Classification Map. Where a principal arterial has a frontage road, primary access from the
        frontage road is sufficient to meet this standard.
19.42.360 – Wireless Telecommunications Facilities.
A. Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to establish general requirements for the siting of wireless
   telecommunications facilities and to:
   1. Encourage the location of facilities in nonresidential areas;
   2. Minimize the total number of monopole facilities throughout the community;
   3. Encourage the joint use of new and existing communication sites;
   4. Encourage location of facilities where adverse impact on the community is minimal;

Page 138 of 262
   5. Encourage innovative design of facilities to minimize adverse visual impact; and
   6. Enhance the ability of the providers of telecommunication services to do so quickly, effectively,
       and efficiently.
B. Applicability.
   1. The requirements of this Section apply to both commercial and private wireless
       telecommunications services, such as “cellular” or “PCS” (personal communications services)
       communications and paging systems.
   2. All facilities shall comply with the regulations in this Section, all other ordinances of the
       municipality, and any pertinent regulations of the Federal Communications Commission and the
       Federal Aviation Administration.
C. Site Location Plan Required.
   1. A site location plan shall be submitted by each company desiring placement of wireless
       telecommunication facilities.
   2. The plan shall be submitted to Planning and Development Services prior to processing any
       permits for permitted or conditional use locations.
   3. The plan shall include an inventory of existing and anticipated sites for the municipality and
       within one-half mile of the municipal boundary.
   4. For each site, the plan shall indicate:
       a. Area coverage, if known;
       b. Antenna location;
       c. Antenna height above existing grade; and
       d. Antenna type.
   5. The plan shall be updated upon request from the Director or Designee.
   6. Every plan shall be considered proprietary information and not be part of the public record.
D. Allowable Uses. The wireless communications facilities specified in Table 19.42-1 are allowed,
   provided that they comply with all requirements of this Ordinance.



     TABLE 19.42-1: SPECIFIC USE STANDARDS
     ALLOWABLE WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES



     P- Permitted Use                                 C- Conditional Use       N- Not allowed

                                                                                        Lattice
      Zones                                  Wall Mount Roof Mount Monopole             Tower

      All FM, FR and F Zones                 P1, C2         P1, C2         C            N

      All R-1 Zones                          P3, C5         P3, C5         C3, C5       N

      All R-2 Zones                          P3, C5         P3, C5         C3, C5       N

      R-4-8.5 Zones                          P3, C5         P3, C5         C3, C5       N



Page 139 of 262
      R-M Zones                                P             P             C              N

      RMH Zones                                N             N             N              N

      All A Zones                              P1, C2        P1, C2        C              N

      All MU Zones                             P1, C2        P1, C2        C              N

      All C Zones                              P             P             C              N

      All M Zones                              P             P             P4, C          N



TABLE 19.42-1: FOOTNOTES


1 Permitted use only on nonresidential buildings.
2 Conditional use on residential buildings.
3 Allowed only in conjunction with public or quasi-public uses (see definitions in chapter 19.04).
4 Permitted use if not within 300 feet of a residential zone boundary.
5 Stealth facilities are conditional uses and not required to be located with public or quasi-public uses.


E. Facility Types and Standards. There are four general types of antenna structures. The standards for
   the installation of each type of antenna structure are as follows:
   1. Wall Mounted Antenna.
       a. Wall mounted antennas may not extend above the wall line of the building or structure or
            extend more than four feet horizontally from the face of the building or structure.
       b. Antennas, equipment, and the supporting structure shall be painted to match the color of
            the building, structure, or background against which they are most commonly seen.
       c. Antennas and the supporting structures on buildings should be architecturally compatible
            with the building.
       d. Antennas shall be considered wall mounted if they are mounted directly on existing parapet
            walls, penthouses, or mechanical equipment rooms, with no portion of the antenna
            extending above the roofline of such structures.
       e. Stealth wall mounted antennas are encouraged, and variations from the provisions of this
            Section may be allowed, as determined by the Director for permitted uses and the Planning
            Commission for conditional uses. Stealth wall mounted antennas need not be located with
            public or quasi-public uses in all R-l, R-2, and R-4-8.5 zones (see Table 19.42-1).
   2. Roof Mounted Antenna.
       a. Roof mounted antennas shall be allowed on top of existing penthouses or mechanical
            equipment rooms. Antennas and antenna mounting structures may not extend more than
            eight feet above the existing roofline of the penthouse or mechanical equipment room.




Page 140 of 262
       b. For antennas not mounted on a penthouse or mechanical equipment room but on a flat
           roof:
           (1) Setback. The antennas shall be mounted at least five feet from the exterior wall or
                parapet wall of the building or structure.
           (2) Height. For antennas mounted between five and fourteen feet from the exterior wall or
                parapet wall, the maximum height of the antenna is equal to the distance the antenna is
                set back from the exterior wall or parapet wall. For antennas setback more than 14 feet,
                the maximum height shall be 14 feet. Antennas extending more than 19 feet above the
                roofline require conditional use approval.
           (3) Roof-mounted antennas extending above the roofline of any penthouse or mechanical
                equipment room require conditional use approval.
       c. Roof mounted antennas on a pitched roof are allowed, provided the antennas and antenna
           support structures do not extend higher than the peak of the roof, measured by a horizontal
           line from the peak extending over the roof (see Figure 19.42-3).
       d. Roof mounted antennas shall be constructed and colored to match the surroundings in
           which they are located.
       e. Stealth roof mounted antennas are encouraged and variations from the provisions of this
           Section may be allowed, as determined by the Director for permitted uses and the Planning
           Commission for conditional uses. Stealth roof mounted antennas need not be located with
           public or quasi-public uses in all R-1, R-2, and R-4-8.5 zones (see Table 19.42-1).
   3. Monopole.
       a. The height limit for monopoles is 60 feet, except the Planning Commission may allow a
           monopole up to 80 feet in the C-2, C-3, M-1, and M-2 zones if it finds:
           (1) The monopole will blend in with surrounding structures, poles, or trees and is
                compatible with surrounding uses,
           (2) The monopole will be available for co-location with other companies, and
           (3) The monopole will be setback at least 300 feet from any residential zone boundary.
           (4) The height shall be measured from the top of the structure including antennas, to the
                original grade directly adjacent to the monopole.
       b. In all R-1, R-2, and R-4-8.5 zones, monopoles will only be allowed in conjunction with an
           existing public or quasi-public use as defined in Chapter 19.04, which include, but are not
           limited to, churches, schools, utilities, and parks.
       c. No monopoles shall be allowed in the front yard setback of any lot.
       d. Monopoles shall be setback from any residential structure a distance equal to the
           monopole’s height.
       e. Stealth monopole facilities are encouraged and variations from the provisions of this Section
           may be allowed, as determined by the Director for permitted uses and the Planning
           Commission for conditional uses. Stealth monopoles need not be located with public or
           quasi-public uses in all R-1, R-2, and R-4-8.5 zones (see Table 19.40-1).
   4. Lattice Tower. Lattice towers are not permitted.
F. Color. The color of monopoles, antennas, and any associated buildings or equipment shall blend
   with the surroundings in which they are located.
G. Additional Requirements.
   1. The following shall be considered by the Planning Commission for conditional uses:


Page 141 of 262
        a. Compatibility of the proposed structure with the height and mass of existing buildings and
             utility structures.
        b. The possibility of locating the antenna on other existing structures in the same vicinity, such
             as other monopoles, buildings, water towers, utility poles, athletic field lights, parking lot
             lights, etc., without significantly impacting antenna transmission or reception.
        c. Location of the antenna in relation to existing vegetation, topography (including ridge lines),
             and buildings to obtain the best visual screening.
        d. Spacing between monopoles that creates detrimental impacts to adjoining properties.
        e. Installation of improvements, including, but not limited to landscaping and fencing as per
             Section 19.16.040.
H. Accessory Buildings. Accessory buildings to antenna structures shall comply with the required
   setback, height, and landscaping requirements of the zone in which they are located. All utility lines
   on the lot leading to the accessory building and antenna structure shall be underground.
I. Non-maintained or Abandoned Facilities.
   1. The Municipality shall provide notice to an owner or agent of a non-maintained or abandoned
        telecommunications facility that the facility must be repaired or put into use within 90 calendar
        days.
   2. If the owner or agent fails to repair the facility or put the facility into use within 90 days of
        notice, the Municipality may require the facility to be removed from the building or premises.
J. Building Permit Required.
   1. A building permit from Planning and Development Services is required for all wireless
        telecommunication facilities, including, but not limited to, monopoles and roof and wall
        mounted antennas.
K. Illustrations.
   1. The illustrations, Figures 19.42-1, 19.42-2, and 19.42-3, are intended to demonstrate graphically
        the intent of this Chapter.




Page 142 of 262
Page 143 of 262
Page 144 of 262
                  Chapter 19.44 Temporary Use Standards


Page 145 of 262
19.44.010 - Purpose of Provisions.
The following regulations are provided to accommodate uses of land or buildings which are temporary
in nature and are not, therefore, listed as regular permitted or conditional uses in any zone of the
municipality. The character of these uses requires proper conditions be met to protect adjacent
properties and the general health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the municipality. Any building or
structure which does not meet the requirements of this chapter shall be treated as a permanent land
use and shall conform to all required permanent standards of the building, health, fire, zoning, and
other similar codes.
19.44.020 – Applicability.
All temporary uses, as defined in Chapter 19.04, shall comply with the provisions of this Chapter and any
other applicable regulations in this Title.
19.44.030 - Allowed Uses and Conditions.
Table 19.44.030 shows permitted temporary uses in each zone. Zones not listed in the table do not
allow temporary uses unless specified in the special conditions of this Chapter.
Table 19.44.030 – Temporary Uses
Temporary Uses                     A-1    A-2     A-20     PR      C-1     C-2     CV       NMU CMU
Fireworks Stand                    X      X       X        X       P       P       P        P      P
Minor Seasonal Sale or Seasonal P         P       P        P       P       P       P        P      P
Use
Major Seasonal Sale or Seasonal P         P       P        P       X       X       X        X      X
Use
Outside Sales Event                P      P       P        P       P       P       P        P      P
Temporary Use, Inside              P      P       P        P       P       P       P        P      P
Temporary Sale of Farm Products P         P       P        P       P       P       P        P      P
Temporary Use, Weekly              P      P       P        P       P       P       P        P      P


A. Fireworks Stand. Fireworks stands shall meet the following conditions:
   1. Fireworks may not be sold outside of the time durations pursuant to the Fire Prevention and
       Fireworks Act, Utah Code 53-7-2;
   2. The total area for the display and sale of products shall be eight hundred square feet or less;
   3. Temporary buildings or anything six feet (6’) in height or greater shall be setback from the
       property line one foot (1’) and may not be closer than two feet (2’) to a public right-of-way or
       sidewalk; and
   4. Tents, signage, and other decorations for a firework stand may be constructed up to five (5)
       days prior to the allowed date to sell fireworks pursuant to state code but may not remain
       constructed for a period greater than sixty (60) consecutive days.
B. Major Seasonal Sales and Major Seasonal Use. Shall meet the following conditions:


Page 146 of 262
     1. A parking plan must be provided for the application that complies with parking standards
        outlined in 19.48. The number of parking stalls required for the temporary use shall be
        determined by the Director or designee;
     2. Major seasonal sales and major seasonal uses may only occur a maximum of thirty (30) non-
        consecutive days out of the year per seasonal use or sale; and
     3. If any major seasonal use or sale occurs multiple times throughout the year and the period
        between the use being open for business is greater than sixty (60) days, all associated
        temporary buildings and signage shall be removed for a minimum of forty (40) days while the
        use is not open for business.
C.   Minor Seasonal Sales and Minor Seasonal Use. Shall meet the following conditions:
     1. Seasonal sales and uses may only occur a maximum of sixty (60) consecutive days out of the
        year per seasonal use or sale;
     2. The total area for the display and sale of products or use shall be eight hundred square feet or
        less;
     3. Temporary buildings or anything six feet (6’) in height or greater shall be setback from the
        property line one foot (1’) and may not be closer than two feet (2’) to a public right-of-way or
        sidewalk; and
     4. Tents, signage, and other decorations for a seasonal sale or use may be constructed up to five
        (5) days prior to the anticipated opening date of the use will open but may not remain
        constructed for a period greater than sixty (60) consecutive days.
D.   Outside Sale Events. Shall meet the following conditions:
     1. May not continue for a time greater than three (3) consecutive days and may not occur more
        than three (3) times in one year;
     2. Any tents, signs, or other decorations used for the outdoor sale event must be removed within
        twenty-four (24) hours after the final; and
     3. The outdoor space designated for the sale of products may not take up more than thirty percent
        (30%) of the business’s required parking.
E.   Temporary Use, Inside. Shall meet the following conditions:
     1. Temporary uses inside existing buildings may only occur a maximum of one hundred twenty
        (120) days out of the year. These may be consecutive or may be dispersed throughout the year;
        and
     2. The temporary use in an existing building may not use any parking stalls from another
        permanent business on the property that causes the existing business’ parking to be non-
        compliant. Unless it is demonstrated by the applicant or business owner that the permanent
        business has more empty parking stalls than stalls that are occupied within a seven-day period.
     3. Temporary Sale of Farm Products shall meet the following conditions:
     4. The area for sale and display of products may not exceed eight-hundred (800) square feet;
     5. Temporary buildings or anything six feet (6’) in height or greater shall be setback from the
        property line one foot (1’) and may not be closer than two feet (2’) to a public right-of-way or
        sidewalk; and
     6. Off-street parking for employees must be provided by the applicant or property owner of the
        property where the sale of farm products is located.
F.   Weekly temporary uses. Shall meet the following conditions:



Page 147 of 262
   1. A parking plan must be provided for the application that complies with parking standards
       outlined in 19.48 Off-Street Parking and Mobility. The number of parking stalls required for the
       temporary use shall be determined by the Director or designee.\;
   2. Weekly temporary uses may only occur a maximum of one hundred twenty (120) days out of
       the year;
   3. The maximum number of consecutive days the weekly temporary use may be open shall be two
       (2) days; and
   4. If any major seasonal use or sale occurs multiple times throughout the year and the period
       between the use being open for business is greater than sixty (60) days, all associated
       temporary buildings and signage shall be removed for a minimum of forty (40) days while the
       use is not open for business.
G. Construction. Construction as a temporary use is permitted in all zones with applicable building and
   land use permits. The length of time for construction as a temporary use shall be determined by the
   Director or Building Official and shall extend for the duration of active construction within the
   municipality before the occupancy permit is issued. Construction shall follow all requirements
   outlined by the Director, Building Official or designee.
   1. Temporary Construction Trailers. A permit for temporary construction trailers may be approved
       by the Director or designee for a structure or shelter used in connection with an approved
       development or project. The construction trailer may be used for temporary administrative and
       supervisory functions, and for sheltering employees and equipment during the construction
       phase of a project. Such a structure or shelter shall be removed within fourteen (14) days of the
       approval of the final certificate of occupancy.
   2. Temporary Sales Office. A temporary sales office may be approved by the Director or Designee,
       subject to the following conditions:
       a. The sales office is in connection with the sale of property within a project or subdivision
            under construction:
       b. The sales office is located on the same parcel of land as the project or subdivision and is
            engaged in the sale of only units or lots thereon:
       c. The sales office may remain open for up to one year or until all the lots are sold, whichever
            comes first; and
       d. An extension may be granted on a yearly basis only when units or lots within the project or
            subdivision remain unsold.
H. Yard and Garage Sales. Garage sales are permitted in all zones and do not require a permit, provided
   that the yard or garage sale shall not operate for more than a total of five (5) days in any calendar
   year and shall be conducted by bona fide residents of the premises. Goods for sale shall consist of
   household items and personal belongings of the residents. Goods offered for sale shall not be placed
   over a public sidewalk or in a public right of way. Signs associated with a garage sale shall be taken
   down at night and may not be placed within a public right of way or sidewalk.
I. Events. Events sponsored by the municipality are permitted in all zones, if the uses are an approved
   accessory use to the event, confined to the official location of the event, and confined in duration to
   the hours and time period of the official event.
J. Circuses, Carnivals, Festivals, and Other Transitory Events.
   1. The Director or designee may issue a temporary use permit for a circus, carnival, other
       amusement enterprise of a similar transitory nature, or, providing the Director or designee finds


Page 148 of 262
       that the use will not conflict with the uses in the neighborhood of the subject property. To
       determine the compatibility of uses, the Director or designee may call a public hearing.
    2. The Director or designee may:
       a. Determine the compatibility of uses;
       b. may call a public hearing.
       c. Any request for a temporary use permit shall be submitted in writing.
       d. A temporary use permit, the Director or Designee may:
       e. Stipulate the length of time the permit may remain valid;
       f. Stipulate the hours of operation of the use; and
       g. Stipulate other regulations which are necessary for the public welfare.
19.44.040 – Prior Approval and Permit Required.
A. Prior to the establishment of any of the above uses, or any qualifying temporary use, a temporary
   use permit must be obtained from Planning and Development Services.
B. The application for a temporary use permit shall include the following:
   1. A municipal business license for commercial uses or proof that a municipal business license has
       been issued;
   2. Building or electrical permit if necessary;
   3. Hours of operation and all calendar days the use will be active or open for business;
   4. Salt Lake County Health Department approval if necessary;
   5. Site plan showing the location of the use, buildings and structures, setbacks, parking, access to
       public streets, access, parking, circulation, exterior seating, and adjacent uses;
   6. Applicable permits needed for mass gatherings or road closures; and
   7. Property owner’s authorization and agreement between the owner and temporary use;
C. The granting of said permit shall require the following findings:
   1. The applicant’s proposed use and applicant complies with all the standards set forth in the
       municipal code.
   2. The conduct of the requested use will not have any detrimental effects on adjacent properties
       and will be in general harmony with surrounding uses;
   3. The requested use will not create excessive traffic hazards on adjacent streets and that traffic
       control, if necessary, shall be provided at the expense of the applicant; and
   4. The applicant shall have sufficient liability insurance for the requested use or event if necessary.
19.44.050 – General Standards and Requirements.
A. Any temporary use established under the provisions of this chapter shall conform to the following
   standards and requirements:
   1. Time Limits. All temporary uses shall be given an expiration date for each allowed use defined in
       19.04 Definitions or this Chapter. The time limit for all temporary uses shall be measured from
       the first day the use is anticipated to be open for business until the allowed time set forth in this
       Chapter.
   2. Any structure requiring sanitary facilities by building, fire, health, or other similar codes shall be
       located on the same lot as a host structure unless independent water and sewer service is
       provided to the temporary structure. If such codes require sanitary facilities, the sanitary
       facilities may be provided by a host structure provided that there is:
   3. No preparation of any food on the premises;

Page 149 of 262
   4. No indoor seating of patrons;
   5. Written evidence that a host structure will provide sanitary facilities for any employees and that
       such facilities are conveniently located not more than three hundred feet (300') from the
       structure and will be accessible during all periods of operation of the use; and
   6. Written evidence from the County health department that all food will be prepared and
       delivered from an approved commissary and that all waste resulting from the operation of the
       use will be properly disposed.
   7. All parking shall meet the standards for off street parking as specified in Chapter 19.48 Off-
       Street Parking and Mobility.
   8. All structures shall be securely anchored to the ground at not less than four (4) points as
       directed by the chief building official. Temporary uses including the use of electricity, water,
       sewer or other utility services and temporary uses that require a building permit or other
       inspection for the use of a structure or equipment shall meet those requirements before being
       allowed to conduct business.
   9. The right to occupy the site shall be secured by a written agreement with the owner of the
       parcel and the owner of any host structures. Said agreement shall address the question of use of
       restroom facilities by employees, responsibility for maintenance, and restoration of the site
       upon termination of the use. A copy of the proposed agreement shall be part of the application.
   10. Approval for each temporary use permit shall bear an expiration date based upon the nature of
       the use. If any temporary structure becomes vacant prior to the expiration of the permit, it shall
       be removed within ten (10) days from the first day the vacancy is discovered by the Municipality
   11. The landowner of the parcel shall provide a cash bond for the restoration of the site of said use
       to its original condition, including cleanup, replacement of facilities, and removal of any
       structures. The bond shall be:
       a. one hundred dollars ($100.00) for temporary uses without a structure, or a structure less
            than forty (40) square feet in size;
       b. one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for all structures larger than forty (40) square feet in size;
   12. two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) for all structures larger than two hundred (200) square feet in
       size.
B. Temporary uses as allowed by this chapter may be identified by signage not to exceed two (2)
   freestanding vinyl banners with a combined area of up to twenty-four (24) square feet and up to
   twenty-four (24) square feet of total wall signage on the temporary structure itself. Signage must be
   located on the same property as the temporary use. All other signage is prohibited.
C. Following the expiration of the temporary use set forth in this Chapter all buildings, products,
   fences, and signage shall be removed from the premises completely. Unless otherwise specified in
   the by the municipality or in the agreement between the property owner and temporary use.
19.44.060 - Action and Application.
A. The Director or designee shall approve or deny permits for temporary uses. A use that meets the
   requirements stated above shall be approved and a use not meeting the requirements stated above
   shall be denied, or may be approved with appropriate conditions to assure that the use will be
   compatible with and will not pose any detriment to persons or property.
B. The conditions may include a limitation upon hours of operation and/or a time limitation which is
   less than the maximum established by this chapter.


Page 150 of 262
19.44.070 – Permit Renewal or Extension.
A. Renewals. Upon the expiration of a temporary use permit no person may apply for the same permit
   at the same location within thirty (30) days of the expiration date.
B. Extensions. Permits for temporary occupancy of a building for retail, sale of fruits and vegetables,
   and nursery supplies may request an extension up to ninety (90) days beyond the initial expiration
   date established when the applicant first applied for the temporary use. The extension shall only be
   granted if the Director or designee finds that:
   1. The extension does not expand the initial intensity or scale of the temporary use approved;
   2. No complaints have been made to the Council or Planning and Development Services Division
       since the establishment of the temporary use; and
   3. The temporary use has not caused a disturbance in parking or traffic flow from adjacent streets.
19.44.080 – Revocation of Permit.
A permit may be revoked for a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or the conditions
provided in the temporary use permit.
19.44.090 – Business License Required.
A temporary use permit is not a business license and the granting of the permit shall not relieve the
permittee of any other license requirement of the municipality or any other public agency. Subject to
the approval of a temporary use permit, a seasonal business license shall be issued prior to the
commencement of a business allowed by this part.
19.44.100 – Fees.
To offset a portion of the costs incurred by the municipality in processing temporary use permits, fees
may be charged as provided for in the fee schedule adopted by the Council.




Page 151 of 262
                      Chapter 19.46 Site Development Standards
19.46.010 - Purpose of Provisions.
A. It is the purpose of the site development standards to promote the health, safety, and welfare of
   the community. In support of these purposes, this Ordinance contains regulations designed to:
   1. Protect existing neighborhoods, preventing their decline, and promoting their livability;
   2. Conserve land and water resources;
   3. Recognize geologic features, soil, and topography;
   4. Improve air quality;
   5. Minimize congestion in the streets and reduce reliance on automobiles by providing walking,
         bicycling, and transit use;
   6. Secure safety from fire and other dangers;
   7. Provide adequate space for utilities, open space, water supplies, sewer service, and
         transportation;
   8. Promote compatibility between the natural and man-made environments; and
   9. Promote the desired high-quality site planning, building, lighting, signage, and streetscape
         design.
   10. Provide notice to the municipality and affected property owners of new or upgraded utility or
         facility systems to allow an opportunity to determine if sufficient reason exists to require the
         systems to be installed underground and to determine if funds are available to pay for
         underground installation.
   11. Minimizing the potential adverse effects of highway traffic noise and by complying with state
         and federal requirements for highway traffic noise abatement projects
19.46.020 - Applicability.
The provisions of this Ordinance shall apply to all new development within the municipality that occurs
after the adoption of this Ordinance. No building shall be erected or structurally altered, nor shall any
land development activity take place, unless it conforms to the provisions of this Ordinance.
19.46.030 - Relationship to Adopted Plans.
The municipality’s adopted General Plan indicates desired development at various levels of intensity.
This Ordinance is intended to implement the General Plan; therefore the Plan should be used as a guide
for the application of this Ordinance to land within the areas covered, as well as for the provision of the
public services.
19.46.040 - All Uses, Buildings, and Structure to Comply with Zoning Requirements.
Every building or structure erected, reconstructed, altered, enlarged or moved, and every building,
structure, or land, rearranged, designed or intended for any use shall be built or used only as allowed by
the requirements of this Ordinance, including the requirements of the zone in which the building,
structure, or use is located, and all other Land Use Ordinances.
19.46.050 - Minimum Requirements and Underlying or Overlay Zones.
A. The provisions of this Chapter are the minimum requirements. Where the provisions of this
   Ordinance conflict with other ordinances, the most restrictive provision shall prevail.



Page 152 of 262
B. The underlying zone of a property may impose site development standards in addition to the
   minimum requirements provided in this Ordinance. Where the provisions of this Ordinance conflict
   with other ordinances, the most restrictive provision shall prevail.
C. Overlay zones may impose site development standards in addition to the minimum requirements
   provided in this Ordinance. Where the provisions of this Ordinance conflict with other ordinances,
   the most restrictive provision shall prevail.
19.46.060 - Application Required.
All requests to establish a use, or construction, alteration, enlargement, repair, or removal of any
building, structure, or part thereof, shall be initiated by the submission of a Land Use Application, as
required by all Land Use Ordinances and/or Building Permit Application, as required by the adopted
Building Code, as applicable.
19.46.070 - General Site Standards.
A. Lot Frontage Required. Every lot shall have frontage upon a dedicated or publicly approved road or
   street, or right-of-way providing direct access to a dedicated or publicly approved road or street.
   The required lot frontage shall be not less than half of the minimum lot width required in the zone
   as measured at the front property line except for lots that have been approved as a flag lot.
B. Yards and Setbacks Measurement.
   1. Yards and setbacks shall be measured according to the lengths required in the underlying zone.
   2. Yards and setbacks shall be measured from the property’s boundary line, as determined by the
       legal description or subdivision plat on record at the Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office, to the
       exterior foundation of the proposed or existing building.
C. Required Yards for One Building Only.
   1. No required yard or setback area for a lot or building shall be considered as providing the
       required yard or setback for any other lot or building.
   2. No area required to meet the lot width, area, setback, or other requirements of this Ordinance
       for any lot or building may be divided, sold, or leased separate from such lot or building.
D. Required Yards to be Unobstructed.
   1. All required setback areas shall be open to the sky and unobstructed except for permitted and
       approved accessory buildings and structures and for projections allowed under section
       19.46.080 (I.) Projections.
   2. Walls and fences, complying with the requirements of this Ordinance and required approval by a
       Land Use Authority, as provided herein may encroach into required yards.
E. Buildable Area. Every lot or parcel created after the effective date of this Ordinance shall have a
   buildable area sufficient to establish a building or structure thereon, which meets the minimum
   standards of the Zone in which the lot or parcel is located. Buildable areas shall be required to be
   identified for each lot on all subdivision plats and plans for the purposes of ensuring that an
   adequate buildable area is provided, and to inform future owners of the allowable buildable area.
   Any area located within an easement may not be included within any buildable area unless the
   easement beneficiary executes and records a release of the easement in a form acceptable to the
   Municipal Attorney.




Page 153 of 262
    Buildable Area, Required by the Underlying Zone


F. Buildings to be on Lots. All buildings and structures, as defined herein, shall be located and
   maintained on a separate legal lot, such lot meeting all requirements of the Title 19, including the
   requirements of the Zone in which the lot is located.
G. Fencing.
   1. Fencing Setbacks. A fence, hedge, wall, column, pier, post or any other similar structure for
       fencing or any combination of such structures is permitted in the required setback if it meets
       the following conditions:
       a. No fence, hedge, or wall extends beyond or across a property line without a recorded
           agreement with the abutting property owner; and
       b. Only one fence or wall shall be allowed per property line. Double fences, walls, or
           combination thereof are prohibited.
   2. Fencing Materials.
       a. Fencing materials shall be made of high quality, durable, materials that require minimal
           maintenance. The Following fencing materials shall be allowed for properties that require
           fencing:
           (1) Brick, block, or stone;
           (2) Architecturally designed pre-cast concrete, decorative precast concrete or integrally
                colored and textured block, brick, stone, or other masonry materials;
           (3) Solid or private heavy gauge vinyl, polyethylene, or similar materials;
           (4) Composite materials, wood, cement, stucco, architectural or decorative metal panels,
                including weathering steel;
           (5) Visually permeable fencing, such as chainlink, mesh, picket, or split rail fences
                constructed of metal, vinyl, wood, or composite; or
   3. Prohibited Fencing Materials. The following fencing materials are prohibited:
           (1) Materials not typically used or designated/manufactured;
           (2) Scrap material;
           (3) Security wire; or
           (4) Electrified fencing, except for legally established agricultural uses on properties in the A-
                1 or A-2 zones that do not abut a public trail.


Page 154 of 262
H. Landscaping. Landscaping shall follow the requirements set forth in Chapter 19.50 Landscaping,
   Screening, and Water Efficiency Standards of this Title.
I. Signs. Any development shall follow the sign standards set forth in Chapter 19.52 of this Title.
J. Junk. The accumulation of junk is prohibited in the municipality unless occurring in a fully enclosed
   and permitted structure, or in a licensed salvage yard and meeting all the requirements for a salvage
   yard as provided for in municipal code.
   1. Exceptions. The following exceptions apply:
       a. A property owner may have up to two (2) inoperable vehicles on their property, provided:
           (1) The vehicle(s) are parked on private property on a parking surface in compliance with
               Chapter 19.48 of this Title;
           (2) The vehicle(s) are secured with the windows closed, the trunk and hood closed, and the
               doors locked;
           (3) The vehicle(s) are not exposing jagged metal or other safety hazards due to damage;
           (4) The vehicle(s) are completely on private property and not encroaching on any sidewalk,
               park strip, or public street; and
           (1)(5)       The vehicle(s) do not visibly drip any fluids such as oil, transmission fluid, brake
               fluid, or coolant onto the parking surface or its surroundings.


19.42.080 - Flag Lots.
A. These standards apply to flag lots in the R-1-8, R-1-10, R-1-15, R-2-8, R-2-10, and A-1, and A-2
   zones.
B. Site plan review for the development of a single family or two family dwelling on a flag lot in a
   subdivision approved in accordance with Section 18.20.070 shall be on a permitted use basis and
   subject to the same ordinance requirements and development standards as those applicable to
   other single family and two family residential dwellings in the same zone except with regards to yard
   or setback requirements which, for a main dwelling, shall be a uniform yard setback of twenty feet
   from all property lines of the flag portion of the lot. The planning commission may modify the yard
   setbacks for lots with an unusual shape, topography etc., but in no case may it approve a single
   setback of less than 10 feet and the aggregate of all yard setbacks must total at least 80 feet.
C. The yard or setback requirements for a detached accessory structure on a flag lot shall be as
   follows:
   1. A detached accessory structure must be to the rear of and at least 6 feet from the main dwelling
        on the flag lot, and must maintain the following separation from adjacent property lines;
        a. Ten feet if adjacent to the side yard of a dwelling on an adjacent lot;
        b. One foot if not adjacent to the side yard of a dwelling on an adjacent lot, so long as the
            height of the accessory structure does not exceed fourteen feet. Accessory structures taller
            than fourteen feet (a maximum height of twenty feet is permitted) must maintain one
            additional foot of yard or setback separation for each additional foot of detached accessory
            structure height.
        c. Twenty feet adjacent to any street.
D. If the rear yard of the flag lot is not defined by the subdivision plat, the location of the rear yard shall
   be determined by considering the following criteria:
   1. The orientation of the lot with respect to the public street


Page 155 of 262
   2. The orientation of the front door of the home; and,
   3. The orientation of the rear yards of adjacent lots.
E. In addition to maintaining compliance with the area and width requirements of the zone in which
   the base lot(s) are located, normally applicable yard or setback requirements for the base lot(s)
   must be maintained, particularly if said lots are already developed or improved. Where access to a
   flag lot is provided via recordation of a perpetual easement across the base lot, the yard or setback
   for the base lot shall be measured from the interior edge of the easement closest to any existing or
   proposed structural improvements on the base lot.
F. Improvements to the travel way within the access connection from the flag lot(s) to the street right-
   of-way or easement shall be in accordance with the following standards:
   1. Access to flag lots shall be provided as approved by the fire authority through the subdivision
        process set forth in title 18 Subdivisions. Access shall be improved with a concrete, asphalt, or
        pervious paver travel surface. Unless otherwise approved by the Municipal Engineer and fire
        authority, the width of the travel surface shall be at least:
        a. Twelve feet wide if the length of the access connection is less than 130 feet; or,
        b. Sixteen feet wide if the length of the access connection is more than 130 feet.
   2. The area within the access connection between the required travel way surface improvements
        and the property line(s) or easement line(s) shall be planted in its entirety and maintained as a
        landscaped buffer in accordance with plans reviewed and approved as part of the flag lot
        subdivision approval process. The plans shall be designed to one of the following standards:
        a. Eight feet of landscaping buffer split between both sides of the access travel way with one
             tree and four shrubs per 25 lineal feet; or,
        b. Where the access drive is adjacent to the subdivision boundary:
             (1) Five feet of landscaping buffer with a solid visual barrier fence along the exterior
                  property line with one tree and six shrubs per 25 lineal feet; or
             (2) Zero feet of landscaping buffer with a solid visual barrier fence along the exterior
                  property line and the use of approved permeable pavers or permeable pavement as the
                  road surface.
   3. The Planning Commission may approve an alternative landscape buffer proposal that is in line
        with the intent of this section to accommodate unusual circumstances on the property such as
        topography, natural hazards, lot size, lot shape, or the preservation of existing vegetation.
   4. Minimum Landscaping standards within the access connection:
        a. All trees shall be a minimum of 1 ½ inch caliper for deciduous trees and 6 feet tall for
             evergreens at the time of planting. Tree species and growth characteristics shall be suitable
             for the location and details shall be noted on the landscape plans.
        b. All shrubs shall be a minimum 5-gallon size at time of planting.
        c. Solid visual barrier fencing shall be a minimum of 6 feet in height, except in the front yard of
             the base lot where it may not be less than 2 feet in height nor exceed 3 feet in height and
             shall not block clear view at any intersection.
        d. Mulch with a minimum depth of 3 inches shall be provided around all plantings and in all
             areas without plants or groundcovers.
        e. A guaranteed bond shall be posted to ensure the installation of the required landscaping
             buffer, and survival of the plants through a one-year guarantee period.



Page 156 of 262
G. Lots of record that were created in accordance with the procedures for the establishment of Deep
   Lots or the previous deep lot ordinance as set forth in the Salt Lake County Planning Commission’s
   1965 policy by that name shall continue to be subject to the site development and improvement
   standards associated with that policy.


19.46.090 - Building Standards.
A. Minimum Width of Dwelling Units. All dwelling units shall be a minimum of twenty- five (25) feet
   wide at the narrowest point, excluding any accessory structure. The building width shall be
   considered the lesser of the two (2) primary dimensions of the building. Manufactured homes are
   the only exception this requirement.
B. Conform to Building Code. The building must meet the municipality’s building code or, if it is a
   manufacture home, it must be certified under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and
   Safety Standards Act of 1974 and must have been issued an insignia and approved by the U.S.
   Department of Housing and Urban Development and must not have been altered in violation of such
   codes. A used manufactured home must be inspected by the building official or designee prior to
   placement on a lot to ensure it has not been altered in violation of such codes.
C. Buildings Taxed. The building must be taxed as real property. If the building is a manufactured
   home, an affidavit must be filed with the State Tax Commission pursuant to Utah Code 59-2-602.
D. Utilities. If the building provides human-occupiable space and is constructed in a permanent nature,
   the building must be connected to and approved for all required utilities. Utilities shall be buried
   underground with the following exceptions:
   1. Transformers, pedestals, fire hydrants, and other appurtenances normally associated with
        “underground” utility installations are permitted on the surface of the ground.
   2. The development of existing lots in areas of the municipality now served with existing
        aboveground utilities, are exempt from this requirement.
E. Permanent Foundation. The building must be attached to a site-built permanent foundation which
   meets the Uniform Building Code or, if the dwelling is a manufactured home, the installation must
   meet the ICBO Guidelines for Manufactured Housing Installations, including any successors to these
   standards, and the space beneath the structure shall be enclosed at the perimeter of the dwelling in
   accordance with such ICBO Guidelines, and constructed of materials that are weather-resistant and
   aesthetically consistent with concrete or masonry type foundation materials. At each exit door there
   must be a landing that is a minimum of thirty-six inches (36”) by thirty-six inches (36”) and that is
   constructed to meet the requirements of the Uniform Building Code. All manufactured home
   running gear, tongues, axles, and wheels must be removed at the time of installation.
F. Roofs. The building shall have a roof surface of wood shakes, asphalt, composition, wood shingles,
   concrete, fiberglass or metal tiles or slate or built-up gravel materials.
G. The Director or Designee may approve deviations from one or more of the developmental or
   architectural standards provided in subsections A through F of this section on the basis of finding
   that the architectural style proposed provides compensating design features and the proposed
   building will be compatible and harmonious with existing structures in the vicinity. The
   determination of the Director or Designee may be appealed to the land use hearing officer pursuant
   to the provisions in Chapter 19.20.
H. Building and Street Relationships.


Page 157 of 262
     1. Buildings may not be oriented away from the street. The front of the building shall be parallel
        with the adjacent right-of-way and frontage.




     Primary Building Oriented to the Street
     2. The front of the building shall be accessible by a pedestrian from an adjacent right-of-way.
I.   Projections.
     1. The following may be erected on or projected into any required yard space in all Zones:
         a. Fences and walls in conformance with this Code.
         b. Landscape elements, including trees, shrubs and other plants.
         c. Planter boxes or masonry planters not exceeding twenty-four inches (24”) in height.
         d. Necessary appurtenances for utility services associated with minor public utilities.
         e. Decks not more than two feet (2') high.
         f. Cornices, eaves, sills, planter boxes, stairways, landings, porches, decks, awnings or similar
              architectural features attached to the building and not enclosed by walls, extending not
              more than two feet (2') into a side yard, or four feet (4') into a front or rear yard.
         g. Bay windows, cantilevered floors and fireplace structures may project into any yard not
              more than two feet (2’), provided that they are not wider than eight feet (8’) wide.
         h. Chimneys, fireplace keys, box or bay windows or cantilevered walls attached to the building
              no greater than eight feet (8') wide and extending not more than two feet (2') into a side
              yard, or four feet (4') into a front or rear yard.
     2. Projections into Required Yards. The following structures may be erected on or projected into
         any required yard:
         a. Accessory structures subject to this Title.
J.   Building Exterior Lighting Standards.
     1. Light Direction. Exterior lighting attached to a building that is intended to illuminate exterior use
         areas, like pathways, shall be directed downward.
     2. Light Source. Light sources shall be at least as efficient as LED and no greater than four thousand
         kelvin (4000K) in correlated color temperature (CCT). Light levels shall be designed such that
         light trespass measured at the property line does not exceed 0.01 foot-candles. Light fixtures
         shall use a cutoff luminaire that is fully or partially shielded with no light distributed above the
         horizontal plane of the luminaire or into nearby residential structures. In no case shall the total
         lumens emitted for a single site exceed one hundred thousand (1000) lumens per acre. This
         standard does not apply to single-family residential lots or any lot with four units or less.
     3. Additional requirements for exterior lighting may be required in the applicable zone of the
         municipality’s dark sky or lighting ordinance.

Page 158 of 262
K. Building Height Limitations and Exceptions.
   1. Buildings shall not be erected that contain less than one story above grade, as defined in this
       Title.
   2. Roof structures above the maximum height that provide utilities, safety measures, or building
       code requirements may be erected above the height limits prescribed in this Title, but no space
       above the height limit shall be allowed for the purpose of providing additional floor space. Roof
       structure for this purpose may not exceed a maximum of twenty feet (20’) above the maximum
       allowed building height unless otherwise specified in this Title.
   3. Public or semipublic utility buildings, when authorized in a zone, may be erected to a height not
       exceeding seventy-five feet if the building is set back from each otherwise established building
       line at zone in which the building is erected. Public or semipublic utility buildings do not include
       cell towers.
   4. Flag Poles and Church steeples are not included in building height calculations.
L. Parking and Loading. Any development shall follow the parking and loading standards set forth in
   Chapter 19.48 Off-Street Parking and Mobility of this Title.
19.46.100 - Infrastructure and Public Improvements
The minimum requirements for public improvements shall be a combination of standards set forth in
Title 14 Highways, Sidewalks, and Public Places and applicable standards set forth in this Title or adopted
in the Municipality’s Master Transportation Plan.
A. Public Streets.
   1. Street lighting shall either be chosen from the municipality’s approved streetlight list or installed
       to match a theme set by developments within the zone or neighborhood.
   2. Street lighting shall be installed in conformance with Title 18 Chapter 18.24 Required
       Improvements.
   3. Street Signs and Markers. Standard street name signs shall be installed at one corner of all street
       intersections. The size, design, materials, location, fabrication, installation, and maintenance of
       the signs and poles within the public right of way and elsewhere shall be in accordance with the
       Utah Department of Transportation, the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets
       and Highways (MUTCD), or the Municipality’s adopted policies, as applicable.
B. Private Streets.
   1. Private streets or roads shall be designed and constructed to meet or exceed the public street
       standards set forth in Title 14 Highways, Sidewalks, and Public Places, as applicable.
   2. Private streets or roads are allowed in the following circumstances:
       a. If shown on an approved development plan as private streets;
       b. For multi-family developments; or
       c. For residential subdivisions where the street is equally shared between properties. Such
           streets shall be required to have a maintenance and operations plan included in the
           declaration of covenants, conditions, and restrictions for the subdivision.
C. Ingress and Egress Requirements. No building with human occupiable space shall be erected or
   enlarged on a parcel in any zone unless such parcel abuts upon or has access to a publicly accepted
   and maintained street, a private driveway, a private road, or a public or private alley.
D. Intersecting Streets and Clear Visibility. In all zones which require a front yard, no obstruction to
   view in excess of three feet (3’) in height shall be placed on any corner lot within a triangular area


Page 159 of 262
    formed by the street property lines or right-of-way lines and a line connecting them at points forty
    feet from the intersection of the street lines, except mature trees which are located in the clear
    sight triangle shall be pruned to a height of at least seven feet (7') above the established sidewalk or
    street elevation.




   Intersecting Streets and Clear Visibility.
E. Intersecting Streets and Driveways. In all zones, no view obstruction, including a sight-obscuring
   fence, wall, sign, other similar structures, and landscaping which exceeds three feet (3’) in height
   shall be placed within a triangular area formed by a diagonal line connecting lines located at the
   curb line or sidewalk line and driveway line ten feet (10’) from the projected intersection of such
   lines.




   Intersecting Streets and Driveways
F. Acceptance by Private Streets. Prior to acceptance by the Municipality, any private street, or any
   driveway allowed for access with a development that is not constructed and maintained to the
   Municipality’s adopted street standards shall be improved to the Municipality’s adopted street
   standards.
G. Driveways. A driveway shall be allowed for vehicular access according to the standards set forth in
   Title 14 Highways, Sidewalks, and Public Places. Chapter 19.48 Off-Street Parking and Mobility.
H. Pedestrian and Bicycle Mobility.

Page 160 of 262
    1. Each lot shall have pedestrian walkways and sidewalks that provide connections between the
       building entrances, neighboring building entrances, parking areas, open space, and public trail.
       Such systems shall be designed to connect with all elements within the development, adjacent
       areas, and transit stops and can include sidewalks along public or private streets, wide outside
       travel lanes, bike lanes on roadways, and walkways and trails in alternative locations as
       appropriate. Design, location, dimensions, dedications, easements, and reservations shall
       conform to applicable Municipal policies and standards for sidewalks, bicycle routes, and trails.
    2. Walkways and trails shall be designed to maximize the safety of users and the security of
       adjoining properties with respect to location, visibility, and landscaping.
    3. Bicycle Facilities. Bicycle facilities shall be provided in accordance with the standards set forth in
       Chapter Off-Street 48 Parking and Mobility.
19.46.110 - Environmental Protection Standards.
A. Recreational Facilities and Open Space Standards.
   1. Open space standards do not apply to single-family, two-family, or three-family, development
       on individual lots.
   2. All floodplains, wetlands, streams, riparian buffers, ponds, lakes, and other water bodies shall be
       contained in open space.
   3. At least fifty percent (50%) of open space shall be contiguous.
   4. Recreational facility and open space requirements shall be satisfied by installing the types of
       recreational facilities that are most likely to be suited to and used by the age bracket of persons
       likely to reside in that development.
   5. Residential Development. Developments with ten (10) or more bedrooms or four (4) or more
       dwellings must provide a minimum of forty percent (40%) open space. If reductions in open
       space have been permitted pursuant to the standards of this Title the total amount of open
       space required shall not be reduced to less than thirty-two percent (32%).
   6. One (1) or more active recreational facilities shall be provided for twenty-five percent (25%) of
       the total open space required in accordance with the minimum requirements in Table 19.46.110
       Recreational Facility Standards Table.
   7. Active recreation areas shall be located near housing and high-intensity uses or adjacent to a
       public right-of-way as allowed through the site design process.
   8. Twenty-five percent (25%) of the total open space required shall be dedicated to passive
       recreation opportunities or green space in its natural condition.
   9. Passive recreation areas shall be located near landscaping and open space or green space or
       may be incorporated into green infrastructure facilities for stormwater if approved by the Public
       Works or Engineering Department.
   10. Beyond the minimum requirements set forth in this section, the remaining open space required
       for residential development may be any combination of active or passive recreation suited to
       and used by the age bracket of persons likely to reside in that development or green
       infrastructure or low-impact development standards for stormwater as approved by the Public
       Works or Engineering Department.
   11. Commercial Development: Commercial development greater than 1 acre shall provide twenty
       percent (20%) open space.




Page 161 of 262
   12. Required open space may be any combination of active or passive recreation suited to and used
       by the age bracket of persons likely to work in the area or green infrastructure or low-impact
       development standards for stormwater as approved by the Municipal Engineer.
   13. Open Space Bonding: Bonding for approved amenities shall be required.
   14. Recreation Facility Calculation: Active recreational facility calculations shall be the sum of the
       minimum area requirements listed in Table 19.46.110 Recreational Facility Standards Table.
       When a proposed recreation facility exceeds the required minimum square footage related to
       any of the recreational facility standards 1.5, 2, 2.5 times, in increments of .5 times, it may be
       counted as that number of facilities.
   15. Recreational Facility Standards: Any development shall follow the minimum standards in the
       recreational facility standards table.
 Table 19.46.110 - Recreational Facility Standards Table.
 Recreational Facility Type        Minimum Area       Additional Standards
 Active Recreational Facilities
 Basketball Court                  4,700 sq. ft.
 Sports Court                      4,700 sq. ft.
 Tennis Court                      6,120 sq. ft.
 Pickleball Court                  1,800 sq. ft.
 Swimming Pool or Splash Pad       800 sq. ft.        The minimum area does not include decks.
 Community Center or               1,200 sq. ft.      The minimum area does not include a leasing
 Clubhouse                                            office.
 Playground                        1,000 sq. ft.      Playgrounds adjacent to a parking lot or road
                                                      shall be fenced with transparent fencing along
                                                      the shared boundary.
 Path or Trail                     9,000 sq. ft.      Shall be six feet (6’) wide. Shall not include
                                                      sidewalks. May or may not be paved.
 Dog Run                           1,000 sq. ft.      Shall be fenced along the perimeter and shall
                                                      provide a dog bag dispenser, trash bag, and
                                                      water fountain.
 Other                                                Any facility not listed that is determined by the
                                                      Planning Commission or Director with a minimum
                                                      area also approved by the Planning Commission
                                                      or Director.


 Passive Recreational Facilities
 Picnic Area                       500 sq. ft.        Shall include a pavilion or gazebo and at least one
                                                      sitting area with a table.


Page 162 of 262
 Lawn Area                         2,000 sq. ft.     Shall be at least sixty (60) feet wide.
 Plaza                             1,000 sq. ft.     Only allowed for non-residential development.
 Bike Station                      4 bike stalls     Shall include a bike work stand with tools, air
                                                     pump.
 Community Garden                  1,000 sq. ft.     Shall be fenced along the perimeter. Fence shall
                                                     be transparent with a minimum height of three
                                                     and a half feet (3.5’). Shall be regularly
                                                     maintained and integrated into the landscape.
 Water Feature                     400 sq. ft.       Shall include fixed seating and be integrated into
                                                     the landscape.
 Pollinator Gardens                50 sq. ft.        A single species of the plant should be in clusters
                                                     of twenty-five (25) square feet.
 Educational or Interpretive       25 sq. ft.        Associated with a path, native plant
 Signage                                             demonstration, low-impact development, green
                                                     infrastructure feature, pollinator garden, or other
                                                     natural feature or open space feature explaining
 Native Plant Demonstration        100 sq. ft.       A single species of the plant should be in clusters
                                                     of twenty-five (25) square feet.
 Other                                               Any facility not listed that is determined by the
                                                     Planning Commission with a minimum area also
                                                     approved by the Planning Commission.


B. Stormwater and Water Quality. Any development shall follow the standards set forth in Title 17 Flood
Control and Water Quality.
C. Culinary Water and Sanitary Sewer Requirements. All dwellings and other structures used for human
occupancy shall be served by an adequate culinary water and sewage disposal facility approved by the
Salt Lake County Health Department.
D. Geologic Hazards and Floodplains. All development in the municipality shall be reviewed for
compliance with Chapters 19.56 Flood Plain Regulations and Chapter 19.58 Geologic Hazards Ordinance.
E. Mechanical Equipment. Air conditioning units, generators and other auxiliary mechanical and building
equipment shall be placed at locations where they will be least intrusive in terms of noise, appearance,
and odors, particularly for adjacent properties and public rights- of-way. Screening walls, landscaping,
and other screening treatments shall be used so all required mechanical equipment is screened from
public streets and adjoining properties. All building-mounted mechanical or communications equipment
shall be a color to make it as unobtrusive as possible. If located on or adjacent to a building wall, the
color of all mechanical and communications equipment shall blend with the color and design details of
the building.




Page 163 of 262
F. Wildland Urban Interface. Lots found to be within the Wildland Urban Interface (WUI) as determined
by the Utah Division of Forestry, Fire, and State Lands or other state-designated agencies may have
additional requirements for site development. Lots found to be within the Wildland Urban Interface
shall be required to demonstrate compliance with any applicable codes during the site plan approval
process or other applicable land use applications.
G. Landscaping. Any development shall follow the landscaping standards set forth in Chapter 19.50
Landscaping, Screening, and Water Efficiency Standards of this Title.
19.46.120 - Highway Noise Abatement.
A. Findings.
   1. The Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) regulation entitled "Procedures for Abatement of
        Highway Traffic Noise and Construction Noise" (23 CFR 772) provides procedures for noise
        studies and noise abatement measures to help protect the public health and welfare, supplies
        noise abatement criteria, and establishes requirements for information to be given to local
        officials for use in the planning and design of federal-aid highways. The Utah Department of
        Transportation (UDOT) policy entitled "Noise Abatement" (Policy #08-111), adopted pursuant to
        23 CFR 772, addresses highway noise impacts and sets forth conditions under which noise
        abatement projects may be approved and constructed in the state of Utah with the use of
        federal-aid highway participation funds.
   2. In order for UDOT to obtain participation funds from FHWA for proposed federal-aid highway
        projects for noise abatement measures on existing highways (known as "Type II Projects"), local
        authorities are required to take measures "...to exercise land use control over the remaining
        undeveloped lands adjacent to highways in the local jurisdiction to prevent further development
        of incompatible activities." 23 CFR 772.13(b).
   3. In an effort to prevent future traffic noise impacts on currently undeveloped lands, 23 CFR
        772.15 requires that highway agencies shall inform local officials within whose jurisdiction the
        highway project is located of the following:
        a. The best estimation of future noise levels (for various distances from the highway
             improvement) for both developed and undeveloped lands or properties in the immediate
             vicinity of the project;
        b. Information that may be useful to local communities to protect future land development
             from becoming incompatible with anticipated highway noise levels; and
        c. Eligibility for federal-aid participation for Type II Projects as described in 23 CFR 772.13(b).
   4. In order for residents to benefit from the development and implementation of Type II Projects
        for noise abatement along eligible highways within its boundaries, it is found to be in the
        municipality’s best interests to comply with federal regulation and state policy by adopting this
        zoning ordinance codified in this Chapter.
B. Development of Property Adjacent to Certain State Highways. Consistent with the requirements of
   23 CFR 772 and UDOT's Noise Abatement Policy #08-111, no remaining undeveloped lands located
   in the municipality adjacent to Type II Projects (freeways and expressways) shall be developed for
   any use or activity which is incompatible with highway traffic noise levels, unless the development
   of such lands shall include appropriate noise abatement measures determined necessary and
   appropriate by the municipality and UDOT. A use or activity shall be deemed incompatible with



Page 164 of 262
   highway traffic noise levels when a "traffic noise impact" occurs, as determined under the following
   formula:
C. Noise Abatement Criteria.
   Hourly A-Weighted Sound Level—decibels (dBA)

D. Leq shown are maximum levels allowed:
 E. Activity  F. Leq(h)      G. Description of Activity Category
    Category
 H. A         I. 57          J. Lands on which serenity and quiet are of extraordinary
                  (exterior)     significance and serve an important public need and where the
                                 preservation of those qualities is essential if the area is to continue
                                 to serve its intended purpose.
 K. B             L. 67         M. Picnic areas, fixed recreation areas, playgrounds, active sports
                     (exterior)    areas, parks, residences, motels, hotels, schools, churches,
                                   libraries, and hospitals.
 N. C             O. 72         P. Cemeteries, commercial areas, industrial areas, office buildings,
                     (exterior)    and other developed lands, properties or activities not included in
                                   Categories A or B above.
 Q. D             R. -           S. Undeveloped lands (including roadside facilities and dispersed
                                    recreation).
 T. E             U. 52         V. Residences, motels, hotels, public meeting rooms, schools,
                     (exterior)    churches, libraries, hospitals, and auditoriums.


W. Responsibility of Owner or Developer.
X. The owner or developer of land to be subdivided, improved or developed adjacent to Type II
   Projects shall be responsible to comply with any and all requirements for noise abatement measures
   imposed pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter. Failure to so comply shall constitute a violation
   of municipal ordinance and shall be punishable as a misdemeanor as provided in Chapter 1.12 of
   this Title.
19.46.130 - Utility and Facility Placement Regulations.
A. Systems Required to Be Underground. Unless exempted under Section 19.46.040 of this Chapter,
   the following systems may be required to be installed underground:
   1. All new transmission systems installed after the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
       Chapter.
   2. All upgraded transmission systems which would increase the height of poles from less than
       sixty-five feet to more than sixty-five feet (65’) above existing grade.
B. Exemptions. The following systems are exempt from the provisions of Section 19.79.030 of this
   Chapter:
   1. Except as provided in Section 19.46.030(B) of this Chapter, this Chapter does not require the
       burial of any existing aboveground systems, nor does it prohibit or restrict the repair, relocation,
       maintenance, or replacement of any existing systems.

Page 165 of 262
   2. Aboveground installation of the following systems is permitted, subject to compliance with all
       other applicable statutes, ordinances, and regulations:
       a. New service drops and/or distribution lines where service is available from existing
            aboveground systems;
       b. Temporary systems required for construction projects not to exceed a period of twelve
            months;
       c. Street light poles, light rail overhead catenary, wireless telecommunications towers, and
            accessory equipment;
       d. Transmission systems installed in the two main north-south transmission corridors, as
            identified on the map entitled "main north-south electrical transmission corridors" on file
            with the planning and development services division.
   3. In cases where unusual topographical, aesthetic, or other exceptional conditions or
       circumstances exist such that the installation of a system would have minimal visual, health, or
       safety impact on the public, variations or exceptions to the requirements of this Chapter may be
       approved by the municipality; provided, that the variations and exceptions are consistent with
       the purposes of this Chapter.
   4. In cases where the municipality determines that insufficient funds are available to pay for the
       incremental costs of underground installation of a system or determines that the public benefit
       to be derived from underground installation is not cost effective or is otherwise not in the public
       interest:
       a. The municipality shall give notice to the utility or facility company that the municipality will
            not require the underground installation and will not pay the incremental costs of
            underground installation of the system:
            (1) Within ninety days after notice is given under Section 19.46.050 of this Chapter in the
                case of a new transmission system; and
            (2) Within sixty days after notice is given under Section 19.46.050 of this Chapter in the
                case of a new distribution system or an upgraded transmission system which would
                increase the height of poles from less than sixty-five feet to more than sixty-five feet
                above existing grade.
       b. If the municipality has not given notice to the utility or facility company regarding
            underground installation as provided in subsection (D)(1) of this section it shall be deemed
            that the municipality has determined that insufficient funds are available to pay for the
            incremental costs of underground installation or has determined that the public benefit to
            be derived from underground installation is otherwise not in the public interest.
C. Notification of Affected Property Owners. Prior to beginning a project involving the installation or
   upgrading of four or more poles, a utility/facility company providing electrical power for general
   consumption shall send written notification of the project to all adjacent property owners and the
   director of public works. The purpose of such notification is to allow the municipality and potentially
   affected property owners to determine whether there are reasons to require the underground
   installation of the system, to determine whether sufficient funds are available to pay the
   incremental costs of underground installation of the new or upgraded system, and provide the
   municipality the opportunity to meet with the company to discuss the project.
   1. Such notification shall include a full description of the project including:
       a. the need for the project;


Page 166 of 262
           (1) location of the project;
   2. height, width, type and general location of poles; and
       a. amount of voltage.
   3. Failure of property owners to receive notice of the project shall in no way affect the validity of
       action taken. Failure to reach an agreement within the sixty-day period shall not be grounds for
       the delay of the project. Notification is not required for emergency projects, relocations,
       replacements and systems which are exempt under Section 19.46.040 of this Chapter except for
       an exemption resulting after notification under Section 19.46.040(D) of this Chapter.
D. Excavation Permit Required. All underground systems to be installed in the right-of-way of any
   municipal road shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 14.16 of this code,
   Excavations.
19.46.140 - Oil and Gas Transmission Pipeline.
A. A notification area is hereby established for any parcels within six hundred sixty feet from the
   mapped centerline of an oil or gas transmission pipeline, as indicated by the adopted pipeline
   protection map, a geographic information system (GIS) based map. The municipality makes no
   warranty as to the accuracy of this map, which reflects information provided by pipeline operators.
B. At the time of application for a development permit the municipality shall notify the applicant if the
   proposed development is within the notification area and provide contact information for the
   pipeline operator(s) in the area and for Utah's one-call program. It is the obligation of pipeline
   operators to correct or update their information with the municipality.
C. If any proposed development is within the notification area, the applicant for a development permit
   shall contact the pipeline operators and provide them with a copy of the application and timely
   notice of the first scheduled public hearing on the application, if there is one. The applicant shall file
   proof of this notification with Planning and Development Services before any development permit
   may be issued. Proof of notification shall be kept on file with the application. Once the development
   permit is issued, it is the responsibility of the applicant to consider any comments and
   recommendations posed by the pipeline operator(s) to ensure no pipelines are damaged during
   construction of the approved project.
D. Subdivision plats within two hundred feet from the centerline of a pipeline as shown on the adopted
   pipeline protection map shall show the pipeline location on the plat. The location of all known oil or
   gas transmission lines and related easements shall also be shown on all zoning, building and record
   plat maps.
E. Oil and Gas Transmission Pipeline Map Modification.
A. It is the obligation of pipeline operators to correct or update the adopted pipeline protection map,
   and they shall do this by filing an application to modify the map. The application shall be presented
   to the Director for review and approval. The complete application must include:
   1. An explanation from the pipeline operator(s) of how the corrected or proposed location was
         determined for each transmission pipeline; and
   2. Electronic GIS data or detailed drawings delineating the correct or proposed location.
19.46.150 - Easements.
A. Storm drainage and utility easements for water, sanitary sewer, electricity, gas, and communications
   improvements shall be provided in the location and to the width as required by the provider.

Page 167 of 262
B. Easements for other purposes as required by the Director or designee shall be designed, designated,
   reserved, and dedicated as appropriate.
C. All site plans and plats shall exhibit standard easement notes stating the type and purpose of the
   easement along with a list of prohibited uses/activities within the easement.
D. Any cross-access agreement shall specify maintenance responsibilities and require that access be
   unrestricted. The agreement and a plat depicting the easement shall be recorded. Copies of the
   recorded documents and an attorney certification that the requirements for this paragraph have
   been met shall be provided to the Director or designee.

            Chapter 19.48 Off Street Parking and Mobility Standards
19.48.010 – Purpose of Provisions.
A. The purpose of this Chapter is to reduce street congestion and traffic hazards in the municipality and
   improve resource management by incorporating efficient, attractive facilities for off-street parking,
   loading, and internal automobile and pedestrian circulation as an integral part of every use of land.
   The standards in this Chapter are intended to provide for the following:
   1. Improve bicycle and pedestrian facilities to reduce reliance on personal automobiles, provide for
       improved circulation between and within development sites, and promote transportation
       options to reduce Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) and related vehicle emissions for the purposes
       of preserving or enhancing air quality;
   2. Relieve traffic congestion in the streets and improve overall traffic safety, including safety for
       people walking and biking;
   3. Minimize any detrimental effects of off-street parking areas on adjacent lands;
   4. Improve the visual aesthetics of parking areas;
   5. Ensure that parking areas are appropriately located to serve community needs; and
   6. Prevent the establishment of excessive amounts of off-street parking and facilitate infill
       development where possible to make the most of limited land resources.
19.48.020 – Off-Street Parking and Bicycle Parking Required.
A. Off-street parking, bicycle parking, and loading spaces shall be provided at the time any building or
   structure is erected, enlarged, increased in capacity, or any new use is established. Such parking and
   loading facilities shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter.
B. Plans Required to Obtain Building Permit. All applications for a building permit shall include a site
   plan showing a parking layout that meets all requirements of this Chapter and includes the location
   of ingress and egress, loading areas, internal automobile, bicycle, and pedestrian circulation, vehicle
   and bicycle parking, landscaping, and lighting. The provided plan shall be reviewed for consistency
   with this Chapter by the Director or Designee.
19.48.030 – Specifications.
Any parking facility or portion thereof shall meet the following specifications:
A. Use of Off-Street Parking, Stacking, and Loading Facilities. All vehicular parking areas, stacking areas,
   and loading areas required by this Chapter shall only be used for those designated purposes.
B. Location. Except as otherwise permitted through community parking credits, all off-street parking
   areas shall be provided on the same lot as the use it serves, or no farther than three hundred feet


Page 168 of 262
   (300’) from the primary entrance of a building or structure to the nearest point of the parking facility
   along publicly available sidewalk or walkways designated on the site plan.
   1. Access to parking spaces shall be from private roadways or aisles and not from public streets.
C. Space and Aisles Dimensions. Parking stalls and aisles shall comply with the dimensional regulations
   presented in Figure 19.49.030, according to the angle of the parking and the flow of traffic.
Figure 19.49.030




    1. Parking stalls adjacent to a column or wall must have an additional two feet (2’) of width to
       accommodate ingress/egress from the vehicle.



Page 169 of 262
D. Surfacing. All off-street parking, stacking, loading areas and drive approaches for properties not in a
   residential zone from the alley or street shall be surfaced with asphalt, concrete, brick, stone,
   pavers, or an equivalent material. Any surfacing on all properties may not violate adopted water
   source protection standards in municipal, county, or state code.
   1. Pervious Surfaces. Surfaces such as pervious asphalt, pervious concrete or turf blocks are
       permitted; subject to municipal policies pertaining to stormwater management. A maintenance
       plan, outlining responsible parties, procedures, and schedules for maintenance of pervious
       pavement or permeable surfaces must be submitted and approved by the Municipal Engineer.
   2. Exception for Outdoor Storage. Surfacing materials for outdoor parking areas associated with
       vehicle or container storage may be graded and compacted gravel, provided the subject area is
       at least one hundred feet (100’) in driving distance from the nearest public street, no gravel is
       tracked off-site, and the paving surface is permitted in this Title.
E. Driveways, General. Adequate ingress and egress to the parking area shall be provided by clearly
   defined driveways.
   1. Distance from Lot Line. All driveways, including the entry radius of the drive approachAny drive
       approach that serves a single main building or principal use, shall be at least one foot (1’) from
       an abutting lot line.
   2. Sidewalk Continuity. Sidewalks shall extend through driveway approaches and driveways shall
       be built to the grade of the sidewalk so that driveways do not create curb cuts in the sidewalk.
   3. Driveway Surface. For Properties not in a residential zone tThere shall be a hard-surfaced
       driveway from the public or private right-of-way to the required parking space. The drive surface
       must be a permanent, durable, hard surface such as concrete (including permeable concrete),
       asphalt (including permeable asphalt), brick, pavers, stone, or block. A pervious surface may be
       used, subject to applicable municipal ordinances and policies.
F. Accessible Parking. Accessible parking spaces required to satisfy the Americans with Disabilities Act
   shall be provided. Such stalls shall be included within the required number of spaces outlined in
   Table 19.48.150. For multi-family residential developments, the accessible stalls shall be provided in
   addition to the number of stalls required in 19.48.150.
G. Electric Vehicle Charging Stations. Parking lots and structures of one-hundred and fifty (150) parking
   spaces or more shall provide at least one (1) electric vehicle charging station for every seventy-five
   (75) parking spaces. Charging stations shall be associated with individual parking spaces and shall be
   installed according to appropriate design standards, as approved by the Director or Designee.
H. Stormwater. All parking areas are subject to the stormwater management provisions of Title 17 and
   any other municipal ordinances.
19.48.040 – Standards for Parking in R-1 and R-2 Residential Zones.
A. Residential Driveways. A driveway shall be provided for vehicular access from the street or right-of-
   way to the required parking spaces of any dwelling in an R-1 zone.
   1. The number, location, and width of driveways shall comply with the specifications set forth in
       Sections 14.12.110 and 14.36.060 ofTitle 14 of municipal ordinances.
   2. Driveways over one hundred fifty feet (150’) in length are subject to approval by the Fire
       Authority.




Page 170 of 262
     3. The area within the front yard of any single- or two-family dwelling not occupied by a driveway
          or parking surface set forth above shall be landscaped in compliance with the applicable
          provisions of this Title.
B.   Paved or gravel parking areas or drivewaysAny driveway and parking area may not occupy more
     than fifty percent (50%) of the area of a front or rear yard. Any lot less than forty feet (40’) wide may
     install one driveway that exceeds the fifty percent (50%) parking or driveway rule as long as that
     driveway does not exceed twenty feet (20’) in width.
C.   Front Yard Parking. Parking or storage of motor vehicles in the unpaved portion of the front yard of
     a residential use or residentially-zoned property is prohibited. A legal driveway in the front yard may
     be used for parking, provided the public sidewalk is not blocked.
D.   Recreational Vehicles. Recreational vehicles parked or stored on residential property in any R-1 zone
     shall:
     1. Be parked or stored on a paved or gravel surface in the front yard, side yard, or rear yard of a
          dwelling. Additionally, a recreational vehicle may be parked or stored on a parking pad which is
          constructed of six inches of compacted gravel or concrete or asphalt. This area must be kept
          weed free.
E.   Commercial Vehicles in Residential Zones. Commercial vehicles shall not be parked or stored on
     residential property in an R-1 zone, except in the following circumstances:
     1. Commercial vehicles may be parked on a property in conjunction with lawfully permitted
          construction, maintenance, or site development activities so long as said activities are diligently
          pursued.
     2. One commercial vehicle may be parked behind the front line of the dwelling and screened from
          view from public streets or neighboring properties with an opaque fence that is at least six feet
          (6’) tall, provided it is parked on a paved surface. The commercial vehicle may not exceed Class 5
          (two-axle, six tire single unit trucks) in Federal Highway Administration vehicle classification.
     3.2. One commercial vehicle may be parked in the front yard or side yard of a dwelling in the R-1 or
          zone upon issuance of a permit by Planning and Development Services, as long as all of the
          following criteria are met:
          a. No other commercial vehicle is parked or stored on the property;
          b. The operator of the vehicle has a valid home occupation license where the commercial
               vehicle is needed for off-site work; is required to be on call twenty-four (24) hours a day to
               use the vehicle in response to an emergency;
          c. The commercial vehicle is parked on a paved or compacted gravel surface;
          d. The commercial vehicle is parked entirely on private property, not parked on or over the
               street or sidewalk; and
          e. The commercial vehicle does not exceed Class 5 (two-axle, six tire single unit trucks) in
               Federal Highway Administration vehicle classification.
19.48.050 – Required Number of Off-Street Parking Spaces.
A. The amount of required off-street parking spaces for individual uses shall be determined in
   accordance with Table 19.48.150: Off-Street Parking Requirements, found at the end of this
   Chapter. The following factors shall be used in determining the required number of parking spaces.




Page 171 of 262
   1. Fractions. Where units of measurements determining the number of required parking or loading
        spaces result in a fraction, the fraction shall be counted as one (1) additional parking space
        (rounded up to the nearest whole number).
   2. Uses.
        a. Parking shall be calculated separately for each use in a building, structure or on a lot, except
            that the Director or Designee may determine that a lower standard would be adequate for
            shared parking, as described in Section 19.48.070.
        b. Accessory uses shall be calculated separately.
        c. Unlisted Requirements. The Director or Designee shall make a determination as to the
            proper classification of a parking requirement not listed for a particular use based on the
            requirement of the closest comparable use. Where a comparison cannot reasonably be
            made, the Director may require a Parking Demand Study to determine the amount of
            parking needed on the site.
   3. Bicycle Parking. Bicycle Parking shall be as required in Section 19.48.080. Bicycle parking may
        not occupy any vehicle parking space required by this Chapter.
   4. On-Street and Public Parking. The use of on-street parking and publicly-owned parking lots or
        structures may count toward a portion of the minimum off-street parking requirements
        provided the following conditions are met:
        a. Adequate on-street parking or public lots or structures exist with five-hundred feet (500’) of
            the primary entrance of the main building associated with the use as measured along
            existing sidewalk or along walkways shown on the site plan;
        b. No more than fifty percent (50%) of the off-street parking space requirement is met through
            the use of on-street, public parking lot, or public parking structure spaces; and
        c. The demand for parking generated by the use may not substantially adversely impact
            available parking for surrounding uses and many not adversely affect traffic circulation
            patterns.
B. Exceptions for the Reuse of Existing Buildings and Structures. The Director or Designee may grant a
   waiver of these requirements for development which reuses an existing building if the applicant can
   demonstrate that sufficient parking exists on the site to accommodate anticipated parking demand.
   If the off-street parking on the existing site exceeds the maximum requirements in Table 19.48.150,
   the Director or Designee may waive the maximum requirement. Re-use of the excess parking spaces
   is encouraged.
19.48.060 – Process for Reductions in Off-Street Parking Requirements.
A. Off-street parking requirements may be reduced by the Director or Designee upon a finding by the
   Director or Designee that the applicant meets the requirements for at least one (1) of the allowable
   reductions of this Section. In no case may the total required off-street parking for a site be reduced
   more than fifty percent (50%).
   1. Transit Exists to Serve the Site.
       a. Fixed Bus Routes Services. Parking requirements may be reduced by up to ten percent (10%)
           of required spaces for buildings, structures, or uses whose entrances are within five hundred
           feet (500’) of a bus stop served by a designated Utah Transit Authority Fixed Bus Route, as
           measured along walkways designated on the site plan.




Page 172 of 262
        b. Fixed Light-Rail and Bus Rapid Transit (BRT). Parking requirements may be reduced by up to
             twenty percent (20%) of required spaces for buildings, structures, or uses whose entrances
             are within five hundred feet (500’) of a transit stop served by a fixed light-rail or BRT transit
             route, as measured along walkways designated on the site plan.
        c. When considering a parking reduction for transit availability, the Director or Designee may
             require the applicant to submit a Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Study
             demonstrating the number residents, customers, or employees that already use or would be
             expected to use transit instead of parking.
   2. Reductions for Bicycle Facilities.
        a. Vehicle parking requirements may be reduced by one (1) space for every four (4) covered,
             secured bicycle parking spaces provided beyond the amount of bicycle parking required in
             Section 19.48.080. To qualify for this reduction, a work stand and floor pump is required to
             be provided on-site. These amenities shall be maintained in working condition and made
             accessible to cyclists using the parking spaces.
        b. Off-street parking requirements may also be reduced by four (4) spaces if free showers and
             locker facilities are available for use within a building or structure on-site.
        c. The Director or Designee may not approve a reduction under this Subsection that is more
             than ten percent (10%) of the total required off-street parking for a site.
B. In reviewing a parking reduction or making a determination for specialty uses, the Director or
   Designee may consider the following as applicable:
   1. The land use and development character of the area to be served by the parking facility,
        including intensity of uses requiring parking, the availability of transit, proximity to nearby
        employment centers and residential neighborhoods, and other relevant factors;
   2. The availability of any other publicly available parking in the area, including the number of
        spaces, applicable restrictions, or other uses counting spaces in the same parking area toward
        the applicable parking requirement;
   3. The timing of parking use relative to other uses in the area, including information on hours of
        operation;
   4. Applicable guidelines from the American Planning Association, Envision Utah, and/or the Urban
        Land Institute;
   5. Whether the applicant has made all efforts to comply with Table 19.48.150 to the extent
        practicable considering parking lot design, layout efficiency, and any unique constraints of the
        site; and
   6. Whether supporting documentation provided by the applicant adequately demonstrates that
        sufficient parking is available to meet projected typical demand.
19.48.070 – Process for Calculating Shared Parking.
A. Where a mix of land uses creates staggered peak periods of parking demand, shared parking
   agreements that have the effect of reducing the total amount of required parking spaces are
   encouraged. Shared parking agreements for off-street parking for two (2) or more buildings or uses
   is permitted subject to the following:
   1. Shared parking areas shall be located within three hundred (300) feet of the use as measured
        along walkways designated on the site plan or already existing;
   2. Adjacent lots shall be connected by drive aisles; and


Page 173 of 262
   3. Shared parking leases or agreements shall have a term of not less than five (5) years, including
        any renewals at the option of the lessee.
B. A proposal for the sharing of off-street parking shall be submitted to the Director or Designee for
   site plan review and approval. Conditional use applications which require Planning Commission
   approval, and for which shared parking is being proposed as part of the application, must have
   Planning Commission approval for the shared parking.
C. Shared Parking Calculation. In determining the total requirements for shared parking facilities, the
   Director, Designee, or Planning Commission shall use Tables 19.48.150 and 19.48.070 according to
   the following calculation steps:
   1. For each applicable general land use category, calculate the number of spaces required for the
        use as if it were the only use (using Table 19.48.150).
   2. Use the figures for each individual land use to calculate the number of spaces required for that
        use for each time period specified in Table 19.48.070 (six time periods per use).
   3. For each time period, add the number of spaces required for all applicable land uses to obtain a
        grand total for each of the six time periods.
   4. Select the time period with the highest total parking requirement and use that as the total
        number of parking spaces required for the site on a shared parking basis.
D. If any uses are not listed in Table 19.48.070, the Director or Designee shall determine the required
   parking for the six time periods.
 Table 19.48.070: Guidance for the Determination of Shared Parking Requirements.
                                   Weekdays                                  Weekends
 General Land Use
                     12 AM –       7 AM –        6 PM –        12 AM –       7 AM –        6 PM –
 Category
                     7AM           6 PM          12 AM         7AM           6 PM          12 AM
 Office              5%            100%          5%            0%            5%            0%
 Industrial          75%           100%          75%           75%           100%          75%
 Retail              5%            100%          75%           5%            100%          60%
 Restaurant          25%           70%           100%          30%           75%           100%
 Lodging             100%          55%           100%          100%          55%           100%
 Theater /
                     5%            20%           100%          5%            50%           100%
 Entertainment
 Conference
 Rooms /             0%            100%          100%          0%            100%          100%
 Reception Venue
 Place of Worship    0%            30%           50%           0%            100%          65%
 Institutional       5%            100%          20%           5%            100%          10%
 Residential         100%          60%           95%           100%          75%           90%




Page 174 of 262
19.48.080 – Requirements for Bicycle Parking.
A. Bicycle Parking Required. Bicycle parking facilities shall be provided for any new commercial, office,
   manufacturing, industrial, multi-family residential, recreational, public and/or quasi-public use for
   which automobile parking is required; or for modification or change of any of such uses that results
   in the need for additional automobile parking facilities.
B. Number of Required Spaces. The number of bicycle parking spaces required shall be equal to five
   percent (5%) of the vehicular parking spaces required for such use, with a minimum requirement of
   two (2) spaces, and a maximum requirement of twelve (12).
C. Bicycle Parking Spaces shall be:
   1. Located on the same lot as the principal use;
   2. Located and designed to prevent damage to bicycles by cars;
   3. Located so as not to interfere with pedestrian movements;
   4. Located in a highly visible, well-lighted area that is located near entrance(s) to the building;
   5. Located to provide safe access from the spaces to the public right-of-way or bicycle lane;
   6. Designed to accommodate a range of bicycle shapes and sizes, and to allow the frame and
        wheel(s) of each bicycle to be supported and secured against theft without interfering with
        adjacent bicycles; and
   7. Anchored to resist removal by vandalism and resistant to rust or corrosion.
D. Required bicycle parking spaces may be located within the building. Any proposed bicycle parking
   spaces or facilities shall be clearly shown on the applicable site plan, indicating location and type.
19.48.090 – Off-Street Loading and Unloading Standards.
A. Applicability. Any building or portion thereof which is to be occupied by one (1) or more uses that
   require the receipt or distribution of materials or merchandise by vehicles shall provide and
   maintain off-street loading spaces as required by this Section.
B. Location.
   1. Loading/unloading areas and docks shall be prohibited in the front yard or on any building side
       facing and directly visible from a street;
   2. Loading/unloading operations shall not interfere with the normal movement of vehicular and
       pedestrian traffic in public rights-of-way, off-street parking areas, internal drives, or sidewalks;
   3. No loading space that is adjacent to a Residential Zone shall be nearer than thirty (30) feet to
       the parcel line zoned residential unless it is contained within a completely enclosed building, or
       enclosed on all sides by a wall or solid, opaque fence not less than six (6) feet high; and
   4. The vehicular path and turning radii to the loading area must be shown on the site plan to verify
       truck maneuverability for the largest truck intended to serve the use.
C. Specifications. Loading/unloading spaces shall be at least twelve feet (12’) wide, thirty feet (30’)
   long, and have fourteen feet (14’) of vertical clearance. Each additional required loading space shall
   be at least ten feet (10’) in width, forty-five feet (45’) in length, and have fourteen feet (14’) of
   clearance.
D. Required Number of Loading Spaces. The minimum number of loading spaces required is shown in
   Table 19.48.090.
        Table 19.48.090: Loading Space Requirements.
        Use Type                           Units                        Required Loading Spaces


Page 175 of 262
                                           0-24 du                    NA
       Multi-Family Residential (total
                                           25-74 du                   1
       dwelling units)
                                           75+ du                     2
                                           Up to 10,000 sq.ft.        NA
                                           10,001 – 20,000 sq.ft.     1
       Non-Residential (square feet of
                                           20,001-75,000 sq.ft.       2
       gross floor area)
                                           75,001-100,000 sq.ft.      3
                                           100,001+ sq.ft.            5


19.48.100 – Vehicle Stacking Standards.
A. Drive-Up and Drive Thru Facility, Stacking Lane Standards. These standards ensure that there is
   adequate on-site maneuvering and circulation areas, ensure that stacking vehicles do not impede
   traffic on abutting streets, and that stacking lanes will not have nuisance impacts on abutting
   residential lots.
   1. Each stacking space shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20’) in length and eight feet (8’) wide
        along the straight portions and ten feet (10’) wide along the curved segments.
   2. Entrances to stacking lanes shall be clearly marked and located a minimum of sixty feet (60’)
        from the closest curb cut. Stacking lanes shall not enter or exit directly into a public street.
   3. Stacking lanes must be designed so that they do not interfere with parking and vehicle
        circulation.
   4. All stacking lanes must be clearly delineated from traffic aisles, other stacking lanes and parking
        areas using striping at a minimum and curbing, landscaping, or signs where appropriate.
   5. Required Stacking Capacity:
        a. A drive-thru automated teller machine (ATM) must provide no less than two (2) stacking
            spaces before the teller machine.
        b. A car or light truck wash must provide no less than three (3) stacking spaces per lane before
            the wash bay entrance.
        c. A laundry or dry-cleaning establishment with a drive thru window must provide no less than
            two (2) stacking spaces per lane before the drive-up window.
        d. A financial institution with teller lanes must provide no less than three (3) stacking spaces
            per lane before the teller or drive-up window.
        e. A pharmacy with a drive thru window must provide no less than three (3) stacking spaces
            per lane before the drive-up window.
        f. A restaurant with drive thru must provide no less than eight (8) stacking spaces before the
            first drive-up window. A restaurant with more than one stacking lane must provide no less
            than six (6) stacking spaced before the first drive-up window. Establishments where orders
            are placed for food or drink in a similar manner to a restaurant must provide stacking in the
            same manner as a restaurant.




Page 176 of 262
       g. Uses having a drive thru window but not listed in this part are required to have stacking
            lanes and stacking spaces as determined by the Director and based on the anticipated
            demand for stacking spaces given existing and projected traffic and consumer patterns.
       h. A stacking lane is not required for accessory facilities where vehicles do not routinely stack
            up while waiting for the service. Examples are window washing, air compressor, and vacuum
            cleaning stations.
B. Self-Service Fuel Station, Stacking Lane Standards. Each pump island should generally include
   stacking space for a minimum of two (2) vehicles (total of 40 feet) on site so that driveways within
   the site or adjacent street areas are not utilized for waiting customers. Pump island stacking shall
   not encroach upon required parking space back out areas (24 feet minimum) or two-way driveways
   for general site circulation (24 feet minimum).
19.48.110 – Parking Lighting and Landscaping Standards.
A. Landscaping. All parking areas shall be landscaped in accordance with the provisions of Chapter
   19.50.
B. Screening. The sides and rear of any off-street parking area for more than five (5) vehicles which
   adjoins or faces an institutional or residential use shall be effectively screened by a masonry wall or
   solid visual barrier fence unless otherwise provided for more specifically by the requirements of the
   zoning district in which such parking area is located. Such wall or fence shall be not less than six feet
   (6’) in height and shall be maintained in good condition and free from advertisement.
C. Lighting. Lighting used to illuminate any off-street parking area shall be downcast and fully shielded
   so as to direct light away from adjoining premises and from street traffic. No light source (light bulb,
   fluorescent tube, or other direct source of light used to illuminate a parking area) shall be visible
   beyond the property line of any off-street parking area.
19.48.120 – Mobility and Pedestrian Circulation.
A. The following mobility and circulation standards apply in all parking areas or portions thereof.
   1. Street and Sidewalk Continuation.
       a. Streets, internal circulation drives, and parking aisles shall be arranged to provide for the
           alignment and continuation of existing or proposed streets and drives into adjacent lots,
           developed or undeveloped.
       b. Internal vehicular circulation areas shall be designed to allow for cross access to adjacent
           lots with residential, nonresidential or mixed-uses.
       c. A stub for future cross access shall be provided from the vehicular use area to all adjacent
           lots. Where cross access is deemed impractical by the Planning Commission, Director, or
           Designee during Site Plan Review on the basis of topography, the presence of natural
           features, or vehicular safety factors, the requirement for cross access may be waived
           provided that appropriate bicycle and pedestrian connections are made between adjacent
           developments or uses.
       d. A cross-access easement shall be recorded with the Salt Lake County Recorder prior to the
           issuance of a Building Certificate of Occupancy for the development.
   2. Pedestrian Access Required. Pedestrian access shall be required for all sites to improve the
       health, safety and welfare of the public by providing clear pedestrian pathways at perimeter and
       internal site locations to reduce pedestrian and vehicular conflicts, improve accessibility for
       persons with disabilities, and establish a multi-modal environment that is supportive of walking,

Page 177 of 262
       biking and transit use. All attached single-family and multiple family residential, non-residential
       and mixed-use developments shall comply with the following requirements.
       a. Continuous internal pedestrian walkways shall be provided to connect off-street surface
           parking areas with the primary entrances of main buildings.
       b. At least one (1) pedestrian walkway with a minimum width of five (5) feet shall be provided
           from the internal pedestrian walkway network to the public sidewalk system. In the case of
           corner lots, connections shall be made to the sidewalks of both streets.
       c. All internal pedestrian walkways shall be distinguished from driving surfaces through the use
           of durable, low-maintenance surface materials such as pavers, bricks, or scored/stamped
           concrete or asphalt.
    3. Walkways in Parking Lots. Paved walkways shall be provided for access to adjacent parks,
       shopping areas, transit stops, anticipated walkways and institutions. Walkways shall either be
       dedicated sidewalks raised above the surface of the parking lot, or, if at the same level as the
       parking lot, clearly marked with striping and tactile alerts, and may use alternative materials,
       such as pavers.
       a. Each surface parking area that has fifty (50) or more parking spaces or has any parking
           spaces more than three hundred fifty feet (350’) from the front entrance of the primary
           building as measured along walkways shown on the site plan, shall have at least one (1)
           pedestrian walkway or sidewalk allowing pedestrians to pass from the row of parking
           furthest from the primary building façade to the primary building entrance.
       b. The required walkway must be at least five feet (5’) wide, shall not be within a driving aisle,
           and, where possible, shall be within a landscaped island running perpendicular to the
           primary building façade. If parking spaces are adjacent to a sidewalk, the sidewalk must be
           at least seven feet (7’) wide to allow for vehicular overhang.
    4. Trail Connections. Where trails exist or are planned within three hundred and fifty feet (350’) of
       a primary building entrance, paths or sidewalks shall connect building entries to the trail system.
19.48.130 – Maintenance of Off-Street and Bicycle Parking.
A. Maintenance. All parking areas, including bicycle parking, shall be maintained free of dust, trash,
   weeds and debris. Surfacing, curbing, lighting fixtures, signs, and related appurtenances shall be
   maintained in a smooth, well-graded condition, and in good repair and safe condition at all times.
   1. The visibility of pavement markings delineating parking spaces and directional control shall be
      maintained.
   2. All off-street parking, stacking and loading areas required by this Chapter shall be maintained
      free of accumulated snow or standing water that prevents full use and occupancy of the areas,
      except for temporary periods of heavy rainfall or snowfall, not to exceed five (5) days.
19.48.140 – Supplementary Parking and Mobility Standards.
The following supplementary parking and mobility standards apply.
A. Gasoline Pumps Associated with a Self Service Fuel Station. Gasoline pumps shall be set back no less
   than twenty-four feet (24’) from any front property line, and no less than thirty feet (30’) from any
   residential zone boundary line. If the pump island is set at an angle on the property, it shall be
   located so that automobiles stopped for service at the pump will not extend over the property line.



Page 178 of 262
    1. Canopies constructed to provide a weather shield over gasoline pump islands shall be set back
         no less than six feet (6’) from any property line and no less than ten feet (10’) from any
         residential zone boundary.
    2. Gasoline pumps associated with a Self Service Fuel Station are subject to the Specific Use
         Standards in 19.42 and all other applicable ordinances.
B. Provisional Parking. Provisional parking in excess of the maximum parking spaces allowed in Table
    19.48.150 may be permitted if the following conditions are met.
    1. Provisional parking spaces shall be shown on the site plan as complying with the parking stall
         size requirements of this Chapter as well as the maneuverability and aisle requirements of
         Municipal Code.
    2. Provisional parking spaces may be landscaped in such a way that they can be used for parking
         on a seasonal or temporary basis.
    3. After one year's time from the issuance of the land use permit, a property owner may request a
         review of the provisional parking. Upon a finding by the Planning Commission (for a conditional
         use) or the Director or Designee (for a permitted use) that the additional parking is needed,
         approval shall be granted for the provisional parking to be paved and made permanent.
    4. The Planning Commission may set conditions of approval as part of any conditional use permit
         that utilizes provisional parking to provide for monitoring and future review of the parking plan.
C. Valet Parking. Off-site parking may be permitted to meet the requirements of this Chapter if a Valet
    Parking program is established.
    1. A valet parking plan shall identify the following.
         a. The location of parking spaces, pick-up areas, drop-off areas, and egress/ingress;
         b. The involvement of personnel; and
         c. General operating procedures.
    2. At least ten percent (10%) of the required parking spaces shall be reserved as on-site, self-
         parking spaces and shall be indicated as such on the valet parking plan.
D. Community Parking Credits.
    2.1. If the Director or Designee finds that parking is available on public property or on property
         leased by a public entity for community parking, and such parking is conveniently located to a
         particular land use, credits may be given toward the parking requirement for said land use. See
         section 19.48. 050 (4).
D.E.Transit Access and Amenities.
    1. Transit Stops. Where public transit service is available or planned, convenient access to transit
         stops shall be provided by means of public or private sidewalks or walkways. Any provided
         seating shall not obstruct a public sidewalk.
    2. Where transit shelters are provided, they shall be placed in highly visible and well lighted
         locations for purposes of safety, subject to review by the Utah Transit Authority.
    3. Landscaping. Landscape and/or plaza areas are encouraged at all bus and transit stops.
19.48.150 - Parking Requirements Table.
The amount of required off-street parking spaces for individual uses shall be determined in accordance
with Table 19.48.150: Off-Street Parking Requirements.




Page 179 of 262
Table 19.48.150: Off Street Parking Requirements.

                                               Minimum Spaces        Maximum Spaces        Additional
Use Category      Use
                                               Required              Allowed               Requirements
RESIDENTIAL

                                                                     NA - but no more
                                                                                           Spaces may be
                                                                     than 50% of any
                                               2 spaces per dwelling                       arranged one
                  Single-Family                                      front or rear yard
                                               unit                                        behind
                                                                     space may be
                                                                                           another
                                                                     paved.

                  Two-Family                   1 space per dwelling 3 spaces per
                  Three- and Four-Family       unit                 dwelling unit

                                               1 space per studio
                                               apartment; 1.5
                                               spaces per 1
                                               bedroom unit; 2       2 spaces per
                                               parking spaces per dwelling unit for all
                  Multi-Family                 dwelling unit for any unit types; no more
Household                                      units with 2 or more than 1 guest space
Living                                         bedrooms; plus        per 3 units
                                               guest parking as
                                               determined by
                                               Director or designee
                                                                                           Spaces may be
                                                                                           arranged one
                                                                                           behind
                                                                     NA – but no more      another, but
                                               1 space per           than 50% of any       may not count
                  Accessory Dwelling Unit      accessory dwelling    front or rear yard    toward the
                                               unit                  space may be          minimum
                                                                     paved.                parking
                                                                                           requirements
                                                                                           for a single-
                                                                                           family home

                                                                     4 spaces, plus 1
                                              4 spaces, plus 1
                  Nursing Home / Convalescent                        space for every 3
Group Living                                  space for every 5
                  Care                                               beds at total
                                              beds at total capacity
                                                                     capacity




Page 180 of 262
Table 19.48.150: Off Street Parking Requirements.

                                                   Minimum Spaces        Maximum Spaces       Additional
Use Category      Use
                                                   Required              Allowed              Requirements
                                                                                              Parking spaces
                                                                         1 space per
                  Residential Facilities for                                                  may be
                                                                         employee, plus 1
                  Elderly Persons or Persons       4 spaces                                   arranged one
                                                                         space per 2
                  with a Disability                                                           behind
                                                                         residents
                                                                                              another
                  Therapeutic School, Assisted 4 visitor parking
                  Living Facility              spaces plus 1 space
                                               per employee during
                  Rehabilitation and Treatment the highest
                  Facilities                   employment shift                   NA
                                                   1 space per
                  Transitional Housing,            employee during the
                  Protective Housing               highest employment
                                                   shift

FOOD, LODGING, RETAIL, AND SERVICE

                                                                         5 spaces per 1,000
                  Car and Light Truck Wash         NA
                                                                         sq.ft.
                                                                                               Self-Service
                                                                                               Fuel Stations
                                                   1 space per pump      1 space per pump
                                                                                               are also
                                                   island, plus 2 spaces island, plus 5 spaces
                                                                                               subject to the
                  Self Service Fuel Station        per 1,000 sq.ft. of   per 1,000 sq.ft. of
                                                                                               Vehicle
                                                   convenience store convenience store
                                                                                               Stacking
                                                   floor area            floor area
                                                                                               Standards in
Auto-Oriented                                                                                  19.48.100.
                  Truck Stop and Service
                  Facilities
                  Vehicle and Equipment            5 spaces plus 1 space
                                                                         5 spaces per 1,000
                  Repair, Major or Minor           for each employee
                                                                         sq.ft. of building
                                                   during the highest
                  Vehicle Rental                                         space
                                                   employment shift
                  Vehicle Sales and Service, All
                  Types




Page 181 of 262
Table 19.48.150: Off Street Parking Requirements.

                                                Minimum Spaces          Maximum Spaces          Additional
Use Category      Use
                                                Required                Allowed                 Requirements

                                                1 space per
                                                employee during the
                  Check Cashing                 highest employment
                                                shift, plus 4
                                                customer spaces
                                                4 spaces plus 1 space
                  Child Care Center             for every 500 sq.ft.
                                                of floor area
                  Child Care, Licensed Family or 1 space per 8 clients, 5 spaces per 1,000
Personal
                  Residential                    plus 1 per employee sq.ft. of building
Services
                                                                        space
                                                 1 space per 250 sq.ft.
                                                 of gross floor area,
                                                 plus 1 space per
                  Reiki
                                                 employee on the
                                                 highest employment
                                                 shift
                  Other Personal Care Service
                                              3 spaces per 1,000
                  or Personal Instruction
                                              sq.ft.
                  Service

                                                1 spaces per
                                                employee on the
                  Animal Hospital or Clinic     highest employment NA
                                                shift, plus 1 space
                                                per 1,000 sq.ft.
                                                2 spaces per 1,000      3 spaces per 1,000
                  Contractor's Office
                                                sq.ft. of office area   sq.ft. of office area

Other Services                                  1 spaces per        1 spaces per
                                                employee on the     employee on the
                  Kennel                        highest employment highest employment
                                                shift, plus 1 space shift, plus 2 spaces
                                                per 1,000 sq.ft.    per 1,000 sq.ft.
                                              4 spaces, plus 1
                                                                 4 spaces, plus 1.5
                  Laundry Cleaning, Automatic space per employee
                                                                 spaces per 1,000
                  or Drop Off                 on the highest
                                                                 sq.ft. of floor area
                                              employment shift



Page 182 of 262
Table 19.48.150: Off Street Parking Requirements.

                                              Minimum Spaces         Maximum Spaces          Additional
Use Category      Use
                                              Required               Allowed                 Requirements
                                              1 space per 5 people 1 space per 3
                  Mortuary or Funeral Home    at max design        people at max
                                              occupancy            design occupancy
                                              1 space per 500 sq.ft. 1 space per 250
                                              of floor area, plus 1 sq.ft. of floor area,
                                              space for each         plus 1 space for
                  Post Office
                                              employee on the        each employee on
                                              highest employment the highest
                                              shift                  employment shift

                                              1 space per 1,000 for
                                              indoor display area,
                  Commercial Plant Nursery    plus 1 space per      NA
                                              2,500 sq.ft. of
                                              outdoor display area.
                  Pawn Shop                   1 space per 500 sq.ft. 1 space per 250
                                              of gross floor area sq.ft. of gross floor
                  Retail Shops or Galleries
                                              used for the display area used for the
                  where Primary Product is
                                              of goods or services, display of goods or
                  Produced On-Site
                                              plus 1 space per       services, plust 1
                                              employee on the        space per employee
                  Retail Tobacco Specialty
                                              highest employment on the highest
                  Business
                                              shift                  employment shift
                                              3 spaces per 1,000     5 spaces per 1,000
                  Shopping Center             sq.ft. of gross        sq.ft. of gross
                                              leasable area          leasable area
                  Swap Meets and Flea         NA - but all parked vehicles must be
                  Markets                     accommodated on-site, off-street
                                                                     1 space per 250
                                                                     sq.ft. of gross floor
                                              1 space per 500 sq.ft. area used for the
                                              of gross floor area display of goods or
                  Other Retail
                                              used for the display services, plust 1
                                              of goods or services space per employee
                                                                     on the highest
                                                                     employment shift

Food and Drink Bar


Page 183 of 262
Table 19.48.150: Off Street Parking Requirements.

                                               Minimum Spaces         Maximum Spaces          Additional
Use Category      Use
                                               Required               Allowed                 Requirements
                                                1 space per 4         1 space per 2.5
                  Breweries and Distilleries in
                                                persons based on      persons based on
                  association with a Restaurant
                                                max occupancy         max occupancy
                                               1 space per 500 sq.ft.
                                               of gross floor area,
                                                                      4 spaces per 1,000
                  Liquor and/or Wine Store,    plus 1 space per
                                                                      sq.ft. of gross floor
                  Package Agency               employee on the
                                                                      area
                                               highest employment
                                               shift
                  Restaurant, Fast Food        1 space per 4          1 space per 2.5
                                               persons based on       persons based on
                  Restaurant, Sit Down         max occupancy          max occupancy

                                               2 spaces for each    2 spaces for each
                                               primary residential primary residential
                  Bed and Breakfast Inn        dwelling unit plus 1 dwelling unit plus
                                               space for each guest 1.25 spaces per
                                               room                 guest room or unit
Lodging
                                              1 space per sleeping
                  Boardinghouse, Hotel, Guest                        1.5 spaces per guest
                                              unit, plus parking for
                  Ranch, Resort                                      room or unit
                                              any accessory uses
                  Yurt                         NA                     1 space

OFFICE

                                               1 space per 500 sq.ft. 1 space per 250
                  Office, General
                                               of floor area          sq.ft. of floor area
                                                1 space per
Offices                                         employee on the
                  Office, Medical or Intensive,                       6 spaces per 1,000
                                                highest employment
                  or Financial Institution                            sq.ft.
                                                shift, plus 4 visitor
                                                spaces

INDUSTRIAL

                 Breweries and Distilleries,
Light Industrial Industrial                    1 space per person     NA
                                               employed on the
                  Dairy




Page 184 of 262
Table 19.48.150: Off Street Parking Requirements.

                                                  Minimum Spaces          Maximum Spaces   Additional
Use Category      Use
                                                  Required                Allowed          Requirements
                  Industrial Flex Space           highest employment
                                                  shift
                  Laboratory, Medical and
                  Dental or Research and
                  Development
                  Salvage Yard, Storage Yard,
                  Towing Services and
                  Impound Lots
                                                  5 spaces plus 1 space
                  Self Service Storage Facilities for each employee
                  Indoor or Outdoor               during the highest
                                                  employment shift
                                                  1 space per person
                                                  employed on the
                  Vertical Indoor Agriculture
                                                  highest employment
                                                  shift
                                                  5 spaces plus 1 space
                  Vehicle and Equipment
                                                  for each employee
                  Repair, Commercial and
                                                  during the highest
                  Industrial
                                                  employment shift
                  Warehouse and Distribution 1 space per person
                  Facilities                 employed on the
                                             highest employment
                  Other Light Manufacturing shift

                  Agricultural Products
                  Processing
                  Assembly Use                    1 space per person
                                                  employed on the
                  Machine Shop
                                                  highest employment
Medium            Meat or Poultry Processing      shift
                                                                          NA
Industrial        Facility
                  Recycling Processing Facility
                  Solar Energy System,
                                                  NA
                  Commercial
                  Vehicle Assembly


Page 185 of 262
Table 19.48.150: Off Street Parking Requirements.

                                                 Minimum Spaces         Maximum Spaces          Additional
Use Category      Use
                                                 Required               Allowed                 Requirements
                                                 1 space per person
                                                 employed on the
                  Water Treatment Facility
                                                 highest employment
                                                 shift

                  Freight Service                1 space per person
                                                 employed on the
                  Mining                         highest employment
                                                 shift
Heavy             Wind Energy System,
                                                 NA                     NA
Industrial        Commercial
                                            1 space per person
                                            employed on the
                  Other Heavy Manufacturing
                                            highest employment
                                            shift

INSTITUTIONAL

                                                 1 space per
                                                 employee on the
                  Animal Control or Rescue
                                                 highest employment NA
                  Facility
                                                 shift, plus 1 space
                                                 per 1,000 sq.ft.
                  Cemetery                       NA                     NA

Public and                                                            1 space per 3 seats;
                                              .25 spaces per seat;
Institutional     Church, Synagogue, Mosque,                          or 1 space per 200
                                              or 1 space per 300
Uses              Temple, Cathedral, or other                         sq.ft. of floor area if
                                              sq.ft. of floor area if
                  religious buildings                                 no seating is
                                              no seating is present
                                                                      present
                                                 1 space per
                                                 employee on the
                  Correctional Facility          highest employment NA
                                                 shift, plus at least 5
                                                 visitor spaces




Page 186 of 262
Table 19.48.150: Off Street Parking Requirements.

                                                Minimum Spaces         Maximum Spaces           Additional
Use Category      Use
                                                Required               Allowed                  Requirements
                                                Elementary and
                                                Middle Schools: 1
                                                space per 20
                                                students design
                                                capacity

                                                High Schools: 1 space All: 4 spaces per
                  Educational Facility          per 8 students        1,000 sq.ft. of floor
                                                design capacity       area

                                                Technical School,
                                                College, or
                                                University: as
                                                determined by
                                                Director or Designee
                  Educational Facility with 1 space per 2 tenants 1 space per tenant
                  Residential Accommodation at design capacity    at design capacity
                                                1 space per 3 patient 1 space per patient
                                                beds for the total    bed for the total
                  Hospital
                                                design capacity of    design capacity of
                                                the hospital          the hospital
                  Park and Ride                 NA                     120 spaces
                                                2 spaces per 1,000 3 spaces per 1,000
                  Public Park                   sq.ft. of courts, ball sq.ft. of courts, ball
                                                fields, or pools       fields, or pools
                  Resource Recycling Collection 1 space per            2 spaces per
                  Point                         collection bin         collection bin
                  Other Public or Institutional
                                                As determined by Director or Designee
                  Use


RECREATIONAL

Fitness and   Athletic Clubs                    2 spaces per 100       3 spaces per 100
Entertainment Club, Locker Club                 sq.ft.                 sq.ft.




Page 187 of 262
                  Commercial Recreation,       2.5 spaces per 1000 4 spaces per 1,000
                  Recreation Facility          sq.ft. of floor area sq.ft. of floor area
                                                                     1 space per 2.5
                  Reception Hall, Reception     1 space per 4 people
                                                                     people at max
                  Center, Theater, Concert Hall at max occupancy
                                                                     occupancy

                                                                                           Spaces may be
                                                                      2 spaces per         arranged one
                  Campground                   1 space per campsite
                                                                      campsite             behind
                                                                                           another
                  Community Garden             NA                     NA

Outdoor           Outdoor Recreation, Large
                                               As determined by Director or Designee
                  Scale
                                               1 space per
                                               employee on the
                  Stable, Public               highest employment NA
                                               shift, plus 4 guest
                                               spaces
SPECIALTY

                  Agritourism
                  Apiary
                  Crematorium
                                                                                           Drive-Up and
                                                                                           Drive-Thru
                                               Parking and Stacking Spaces as              Facilities are
Specialty Uses Drive-Up and Drive Thru
                                               determined by Director or Designee          subject to the
               Facilities
                                                                                           stacking
                                                                                           standards in
                                                                                           19.48.100.
                  Seasonal Use or Sales
                  Ski Resort



    Chapter 19.50 Landscaping, Screening, Water Efficiency Standards
19.50.010 – Purpose of Provisions.
A. The Metro Township Council has found that:
   1. Water is an increasingly scarce resource.


Page 188 of 262
    2. Nearly two-thirds of the White City's culinary water resources are used for outdoor use,
       including watering landscapes.
    3. White City desires to promote the design, installation, and maintenance of landscapes that are
       both attractive and water efficient.
B. Furthermore, the Council has determined that it is in the public's interest to conserve public water
   resources and promote water efficient landscaping. The purpose of this section is to protect and
   enhance the community's environmental, economic, recreational, and aesthetic resources by
   promoting efficient use of water in the community's landscapes, reduce water waste, and establish
   a structure for designing, installing, and maintaining water efficient landscapes throughout White
   City.
19.50.020 - Commercial, Industrial, Manufacturing, and Multi-Family Development.
A. Applicability.
   1. The provisions of this Subsection (c) shall apply to landscaping for all new and reconstructed
      landscaping for public agency projects, private commercial and industrial projects, developer-
      installed landscaping in multifamily residential projects, and developer-installed landscaping in
      single-family projects that require project review and approval by White City. Such review
      includes site plan review, modified conditional use permit review, and building permits issued
      for exterior modifications to commercial and multifamily buildings.
   2. This Subsection (c) does not apply to homeowner-provided landscaping at single-family projects,
      nor to registered historical sites.
B. Documentation to be Submitted for Plan Approval.
   1. A Landscape Plan Documentation Package shall be submitted to and approved by the Public
      Utilities Department prior to the issuance of any permit. A copy of the approved Landscape Plan
      Documentation Package shall be provided to the property owner or site manager and to the
      local retail water purveyor. The Landscape Plan Documentation Package shall be prepared by a
      registered landscape architect or a landscape designer. The Irrigation Plan shall be prepared by
      an irrigation designer or a landscape architect. The Landscape Plan Documentation Package shall
      consist of the following items:
      a. Project Data Sheet. The Project Data Sheet shall contain the following:
           (1) Project name and address;
           (2) Applicants or applicant's agent's name, address, phone number, and fax number;
           (3) Landscape designer/landscape architect's name, address, phone number, and fax
                number; and
           (4) Landscape contractor's name, address, phone number, and fax number.
      b. Planting Plan. A detailed Planting Plan shall be drawn at a scale that clearly identifies the
           following:
           (1) Location of all plant materials, a legend with botanical and common names, and size of
                plant materials;
           (2) Property lines and street names;
           (3) Existing and proposed buildings, walls, fences, light poles, utilities, paved areas, and
                other site improvements;
           (4) Existing trees and plant materials to be removed or retained; and
           (5) Designation of landscape zones.


Page 189 of 262
        c. Irrigation Plan. A detailed Irrigation Plan shall be drawn at the same scale as the Planting
           Plan and shall contain the following information:
           (1) Layout of the irrigation system and a legend summarizing the type and size of all
                components of the system, including manufacturer name and model numbers;
           (2) Static water pressure in pounds per square inch (psi) at the point of connection to the
                public water supply; and
           (3) Flow rate in gallons per minute and design operating pressure in psi for each valve and
                precipitation rate in inches per hour for each valve with sprinklers.
        d. Grading Plan. A Grading Plan shall be drawn at the same scale as the Planting Plan and shall
           contain the following information:
           (1) Property lines and street names, existing and proposed buildings, walls, fences, utilities,
                paved areas, and other site improvements; and
           (2) Existing and finished contour lines and spot elevations as necessary for the proposed
                site improvements.
        e. Soils Report. A soils report will be required where irrigated landscaped areas consisting of
           grass or similar turf exceed 33 percent of the overall landscaped area. The soils report shall
           describe the depth, composition, and bulk density of the top soil and subsoil at the site and
           shall include recommendations for soil amendments. The Planting Plan shall incorporate the
           recommendations of the soils report into the planting specifications.
        f. Landscape Water Allowance. The annual landscape water allowance shall be calculated
           using the following equation:
                Landscape Water Allowance = ET × 1.0 × 0.62 × A
                Where landscape water allowance is in gallons per growing season:
 ET      =    Reference evapotranspiration in inches per growing season
 1.0     =    ET adjustment factor, 100% of turf grass ET (growing season adjustment factor)
 0.62    =    Conversion factor
 A       =    Total irrigated landscape area in square feet


      g. Irrigation Schedule. A monthly irrigation schedule shall be prepared that covers the initial
          90-day plant establishment period and the typical long-term use period. This schedule shall
          consist of a table with the following information for each valve:
          (1) Plant type (e.g., turf, trees, low water use plants);
          (2) Irrigation type (e.g., sprinklers, drip, bubblers);
          (3) Flow rate in gallons per minute;
          (4) Precipitation rate in inches per hour (sprinklers only);
          (5) Run times in minutes per day;
          (6) Number of water days per week; and
          (7) Cycle time to avoid runoff.
C. Landscape Design Standards.
   1. Plant Selection.




Page 190 of 262
        a. Plants selected for landscape zones shall consist of plants that are well suited to the
             microclimate and soil conditions at the project site. Plants with similar water needs shall be
             grouped together as much as possible in landscape zones.
        b. For projects located at the interface between urban areas and natural open space (non-
             irrigated), extra drought tolerant plants shall be selected that will blend with the native
             vegetation and are fire-resistant or fire-retardant. Plants with low fuel volume or high
             moisture content shall be emphasized. Plants that tend to accumulate excessive amounts of
             dead wood or debris shall be avoided.
        c. Areas with slopes greater than 30 percent shall be landscaped with deep rooting water
             conserving plants for erosion control and soil stabilization. Irrigation devices are limited to
             drip emitters, bubblers, or sprinklers with a maximum precipitation rate not to exceed 0.85
             inches per hour.
        d. Parkstrips and other landscaped areas less than eight feet wide shall be landscaped with
             water conserving plants and/or grass.
   2. Mulch. After completion of all plantings, all irrigated non-turf areas shall be covered with a
        minimum layer of four inches of mulch to retain water, inhibit weed growth, and moderate soil
        temperature. Non-porous material shall not be placed under the mulch.
   3. Soil Preparation. Soil preparation shall be suitable to provide healthy growing conditions for the
        plants and to encourage water infiltration and penetration. Soil preparation shall include
        scarifying the soil to a minimum depth of six inches and amending the soil with organic material
        as per specific recommendations of the landscape designer/landscape architect based on the
        soils report.
D. Irrigation Design Standards.
   1. Landscape Water Meter. A water meter and backflow prevention assembly for landscaping that
        are in compliance with State Code shall be installed after the water provider meter and outside
        the water provider maintained meter box on the customer's service line. The size of the meter
        shall be determined based on irrigation demand.
   2. Pressure Regulation. A pressure regulating valve shall be installed and maintained by the
        consumer if the static service pressure exceeds 80 pounds per square inch (psi). The pressure
        regulating valve shall be located between the landscape water meter and the first point of water
        use, or first point of division in the pipe, and shall be set at the manufacturer's recommended
        pressure for sprinklers.
   3. Automatic Controller. All irrigation systems shall include an electric automatic controller with
        multiple program and multiple repeat cycle capabilities and a flexible calendar program. All
        controllers shall be equipped with an automatic rain shut-off device.
   4. Slopes Exceeding 30 Percent. On slopes exceeding 30 percent, the irrigation system shall consist
        of drip emitters, bubblers, or sprinklers with a maximum precipitation rate of 0.85 inches per
        hour and adjusted sprinkler cycle to eliminate runoff.
   5. Valves. Each valve shall irrigate a landscape zone with similar site, slope and soil conditions, and
        plant materials with similar watering needs. Turf and non-turf areas shall be irrigated on
        separate valves.
   6. Drip Emitters/Bubbler. Drip emitters or a bubbler shall be provided for each tree, where
        practicable. Bubblers shall not exceed one and one-half gallons per minute per device. Bubblers



Page 191 of 262
       for trees shall be placed on a separate valve unless specifically exempted by the Public Utilities
       Department due to the limited number of trees on the project site.
   7. Sprinklers. Sprinklers shall have matched precipitation rates with each control valve circuit.
   8. Check Valves; Pressure Compensating Valves and Sprinklers. Pressure Compensating Valves and
       Sprinklers. Check valves shall be required where elevation differences will cause low head
       drainage. Pressure compensating valves and sprinklers shall be required where a significant
       variation in water pressure will occur within the irrigation system due to elevation differences.
   9. Drip Irrigation Lines. Drip irrigation lines shall be placed underground or otherwise permanently
       covered, except for drip emitters and where approved as a temporary installation. Filters and
       end flush valves shall be provided, as necessary.
   10. Operation Time for Irrigation Zones with Overhead Spray/Stream Sprinklers. Irrigation zones
       with overhead spray or stream sprinklers shall be designed to operate between 6:00 p.m. and
       10:00 a.m. to reduce water loss from wind and evaporation. Drip or bubbler zones are excluded.
   11. Program Valves. Program valves for multiple repeat cycles where necessary to reduce runoff,
       particularly slopes and soils with slow infiltration rates.
E. Plan Review, Construction Inspection, and Post-Construction Monitoring.
   1. As part of the site plan approval and building permit process, a copy of the Landscape Plan
       Documentation Package shall be submitted to the Municipality for review and approval before
       construction begins. With the Landscape Plan Documentation Package, a copy of the Landscape
       Water Allowance Worksheet shall be completed by a landscape designer and submitted to
       White City.
   2. All Landscape Plan Documentation Packages submitted must be certified by a licensed
       landscape architect or an approved landscape designer. The Irrigation Plan must be prepared by
       an approved irrigation designer or a landscape architect.
   3. All landscape irrigation systems shall be installed by an irrigation contractor. The person
       representing the contracting firm shall be a full-time employee of the firm and shall be directly
       involved with the project, including at least weekly site visits during construction.
   4. All installers, designers, and auditors shall meet State and local license, insurance, and bonding
       requirements and be able to show proof of such upon demand.
   5. During construction, site inspection of the landscaping may be performed by the Municipality.
   6. Following construction and prior to the release of the secondary bond guarantee posted for the
       project, an inspection shall be scheduled with the Planning and Development Services to verify
       compliance with the approved Landscape and Irrigation Plans. A Certificate of Substantial
       Completion, shall be completed by the property owner, contractor, or landscape
       designer/landscape architect and submitted to the Municipality.
   7. Following construction and prior to release of the secondary bond guarantee posted for the
       project, a water use efficiency review will be conducted by a landscape irrigation auditor. The
       auditor shall be independent of the contractor, design firm, and owner/developer of the project.
       The water performance audit will verify that the irrigation system complies with the minimum
       standards required by this section. The minimum efficiency required for the irrigation system is
       60 percent for distribution efficiency for all fixed spray systems and 70 percent distribution
       efficiency for all rotor systems. The auditor shall furnish a certificate to the City, designer,
       installer, and owner/developer certifying compliance with the minimum distribution



Page 192 of 262
        requirements, and an irrigation schedule. Compliance with this provision is required before the
        City will release the bond for the project.
19.50.130 – Single-Family Residential Development.
A. Applicability. The provisions of this Subsection (d) apply to landscaping for all new and
   reconstructed landscaping for single-family residential dwellings. This Subsection (d) does not apply
   to residential developments with developer installed landscapes, nor to registered historical sites.
B. Provisions for New or Reconstructed Landscapes.
   1. Landscape Education Package. A copy of the Landscape Education Package shall be given to all
       new single-family homeowners by the Municipality at the time of application for a building
       permit and all new or modified water account owners. The Landscape Education Package,
       prepared by the Public Utilities Department, shall consist of the following items:
       a. Principals of water efficient landscape design;
       b. List of water conserving plants;
       c. List of certified landscape designers, certified irrigation system designers and suppliers, and
           certified landscape irrigation contractors;
       d. Information packet about the various area demonstration gardens; and
       e. Information packet about the City's water rate schedule, billing format for water use, and
           the economics of installing and maintaining a water efficient landscape.
   2. Post Installation. After the landscaping has been installed, the homeowner is encouraged to
       notify the Public Utilities Department of its completion and request a listing of landscape
       auditors who can perform a water use efficiency review, also called a water check. The water
       check will determine the irrigation system efficiency, make recommendations for
       improvements, and provide the homeowner with an irrigation schedule
C. Parkstrips and other landscaped areas less than eight feet wide are encouraged to be landscaped
   with water conserving plants.
19.50.140 – Prohibited Water Practices.
A. Waste of Water. Regardless of the age or type of a development (commercial, industrial, office, or
   residential) water shall be properly used. Waste of water is prohibited.
B. Restricted Watering Time. Sprinkler irrigation of public and private landscapes is prohibited between
   the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. The provisions of this section shall apply to all landscapes
   within the municipality with the following exceptions:
   1. New lawns that require frequent irrigation for establishment purposes within 90 days of
       planting;
   2. Short cycles required for testing, inspecting, and maintaining irrigation systems; or
   1. Where pressure problems exist in the water infrastructure requiring an alternate watering time
       as approved by the Director or Designee;
19.50.150 – Real Property to be Kept Clean.
A. It is unlawful for any person, corporation, partnership or legal entity owning or occupying real
   property in the municipality to allow weeds to grow higher on such property or on adjacent park
   strips than is permitted in this section, or to fail to remove from the property or adjacent park strips
   any cuttings of such weeds or any refuse, unsightly or deleterious objects, after having been given
   written notice by the Planning and Development Services Division or the Health Department.

Page 193 of 262
B. Standards for Weed Control. The following standards apply:
   1. Height. Weeds may not be permitted to reach a height of more than six inches (6”) at any time
       and shall be cleared from all real property in the municipality. The cuttings shall be cleared and
       removed from the premises.
   2. Fire Hazard. When the Director or Designee determines that the weeds on a property pose a
       serious fire hazard due to their density, dryness, proximity to possible sources of ignition, and
       the effects of prevailing winds and weather, the weeds shall be deemed to be in violation of this
       section, regardless of their height.
   3. Noxious weeds. Noxious weeds shall be controlled and contained according to the
       recommendations of the Utah Department of Agriculture and Food.
C. Exceptions. On a property of five (5) acres or more, in lieu of cutting the weeds on the entire
   property, the owner is permitted to cut a thirty-foot (30’) firebreak of not more than six inches (6”)
   high around all structures and around the complete perimeter of the property. The cuttings shall be
   cleared and removed from the premises.
D. Enforcement. This section shall be enforced according to the provisions of Title 12 of the Municipal
   Code.
19.50.160 – Tree Trimming.
A. In addition to the other standards of this Chapter, the property owner is responsible for maintaining
   all trees and landscaping on the property and adjacent park strips to the following standards.
   1. Trees and landscaping which overhang the street pavement shall be trimmed to a minimum
        height of thirteen and one-half feet (13.5’) above the street pavement.
   2. Trees and landscaping which overhang the sidewalk shall be trimmed to a minimum height of
        eight and one-half feet (8.5’) above the sidewalk.
   3. The abutting property owner shall remove any tree, tree stump, shrub or vine in or within
        twenty feet (20’) of the right-of-way if that tree, tree stump, shrub, or vine is dead, diseased, or
        determined by the Director or Designee to be undesirable for any other reason.
   4. If trees or landscaping are determined by the Director or Designee to be an imminent threat to
        public health and safety, the municipality may proceed with an emergency abatement, as
        outlined in Title 12.
B. Enforcement. This section shall be enforced according to the provisions of Title 12 of the Municipal
   Code.
19.50.170 – Enforcement, Penalty, for Violations.
A. Violation of this section. Any consumer who violates any provisions of this Chapter, except sections
   19.50.150 and 19.50.160, shall be issued a written notice of violation. The written notice shall be
   affixed to the property where the violation occurred and mailed to the consumer of record and to
   any other person known to the City who is responsible for the violation and its corrections. Such
   notice shall describe the violation and order that it be corrected, cured, or abated immediately or
   within such specified time as the City determines is reasonable under the circumstances. Failure to
   receive such notice shall not invalidate further actions by the City. If the order is not complied with,
   the City may terminate water service to the customer and/or issue a Class C misdemeanor citation.
19.50.180 – Definitions.
A. Definitions. The following definitions shall apply to this ordinance:

Page 194 of 262
   1. “Administrative standards” means the set of rules, procedures, and requirements set forth in a
       landscape ordinance associated with making permit application, assembling materials for public
       review, meeting the requirements of the landscape ordinance, seeking approvals, enforcement,
       conducting site inspections, and filing reports.
   2. “Bubbler” means an irrigation head that delivers water to the root zone by flooding the planted
       area, usually measured in gallons per minute. Bubblers exhibit a trickle, umbrella, or short
       stream pattern.
   3. “Drip emitter” means a drip irrigation fitting that delivers water slowly at the root zone of the
       plant, usually measured in gallons per hour.
   4. “Evapotranspiration” means the quantity of water evaporated from adjacent soil surfaces and
       transpired by plants during a specific time, expressed in inches per day, month, or year. (See
       also Reference evapotranspiration rate.)
   5. “Extra-drought tolerant plant” means a plant that can survive without irrigation throughout the
       year once established, although supplemental water may be desirable during drought periods
       for improved appearance and disease resistance.
   6. “Ground cover” means material planted in such a way as to form a continuous cover over the
       ground that can be maintained at a height not more than 12 inches.
   7. “Hardscape” means patios, decks, and paths; does not include driveways, parking lots, and
       sidewalks.
   8. “Irrigated landscaped area” means all portions of a development site to be improved with
       planting and irrigation. Natural open space areas shall not be included in the irrigated
       landscaped area.
   9. “Irrigation audit” means an on-site survey of the irrigation system, conduct of a catch-can test to
       measure system efficiency, and the generation of an irrigation schedule and recommendations
       to improve irrigation efficiency.
   10. “Irrigation contractor” means a person who has been certified by the Irrigation Association to
       install irrigation system designs, or a landscape architect, or as otherwise approved by the Public
       Utilities Department.
   11. “Irrigation designer” means a person who has been certified by the Irrigation Association to
       prepare irrigation system designs, or a landscape architect, or as otherwise approved by the
       Public Utilities Department.
   12. “Irrigation efficiency” means the measurement of the amount of water beneficially applied,
       divided by the total amount of water applied. Irrigation efficiency is derived from measurements
       and estimates of irrigation system hardware characteristics and management practices.
   13. “Irrigation Plan” means the plan that shows the components of the irrigation system with water
       meter size, backflow prevention, rain shut-off device, precipitation rates, flow rate and
       operating pressure for each irrigation zone, and identification of all irrigation equipment.
   14. “Landscape architect” means a person who holds a certificate to practice landscape architecture
       in the State of Utah.
   15. “Landscape designer” means a person who has been certified by the Utah Nursery and
       Landscape Association to prepare landscape plans or as otherwise approved by the Public
       Utilities Department.
   16. “Landscape Education Package” means a package of documents that is intended to inform and
       educate water users in the City about water efficient landscapes. The package includes the


Page 195 of 262
       principles of water efficient landscape design, a listing of water conserving plants, a listing of
       certified landscape designers, landscape architects, certified irrigation designers, certified
       irrigation contractors, an information packet about various area demonstration projects, City's
       water rates, billing format for water use, and the economics of installing and maintaining a
       water efficient landscape.
   17. “Landscape Irrigation Auditor” means a person who has been certified by the Irrigation
       Association to conduct a landscape irrigation audit or as otherwise approved by the Public
       Utilities Department.
   18. “Landscape Plan Documentation Package” means the preparation of graphic and written
       criteria, specifications, and detailed plans to arrange and modify the effects of natural features
       such as plantings, ground and water forms, circulation, walks and other features to comply with
       the provisions of this section. The Landscape Plan Documentation Package shall include a
       project data sheet, a Planting Plan, an Irrigation Plan, a Grading Plan, a soils report, a landscape
       water allowance, and an irrigation schedule.
   19. “Landscape water allowance” means, for design purposes, the upper limit of annual applied
       water for the established landscaped area. The landscape water allowance is based upon the
       local reference evapotranspiration rate, the ET adjustment factor, and the size of the
       landscaped area.
   20. “Landscaped Zone” means a portion of the landscaped area having plants with similar water
       needs, areas with similar microclimate (i.e., slope, exposure, wind, etc.), and soil conditions and
       areas that will be similarly irrigated. A landscape zone can be served by one irrigation valve or a
       set of valves with the same schedule.
   21. “Landscaping” means any combination of living plants such as trees, shrubs, vines, ground
       covers, flowers, turf or ornamental grass; natural features such as rock, stone, or bark chips; and
       structural features, including, but not limited to, fountains, reflecting pools, outdoor art work,
       screen walls, fences, or benches.
   22. “Mulch” means any material such as bark, wood chips, rocks/stones, or other similar materials
       left loose and applied to the soil.
   23. “Non-drought tolerant plant” means a plant that will require regular irrigation for adequate
       appearance, growth, and disease resistance.
   24. “Planting Plan” means a plan which clearly and accurately identifies and locates new and
       existing trees, shrubs, ground covers, turf areas, driveways, sidewalks, hardscape features, and
       fences.
   25. “Precipitation rate” means the rate at which water is applied per unit of time, usually measured
       in inches per hour.
   26. “Rain shut-off device” means a device wired to an automatic controller that shuts off the
       irrigation system when it rains.
   27. “Reconstructed landscaping” means any existing approved landscaping and irrigation that is
       removed and replaced as part of new construction.
   28. “Reference evapotranspiration rate or ET” means a standard measurement of environmental
       parameters that affect the water use of plants. ET is expressed in inches per day, month or year
       and is an estimate of the evapotranspiration of a large field of four- to five-inch tall, cool season
       grass that is well watered. The average growing season ET for the Sandy City area is 31.18
       inches. (See also Evapotranspiration.)


Page 196 of 262
   29. “Runoff” means irrigation water that is not absorbed by the soil or landscape area to which it is
       applied and that flows onto other areas.
   30. “Soils report” means a report by a soils laboratory indicating soil types, soil depth, uniformity,
       composition, bulk density, infiltration rates, and pH for the top soil and subsoil for a given site.
       The soils report also includes recommendations for soil amendments.
   31. “Spray sprinkler” means an irrigation head that sprays water through a nozzle.
   32. “Stream sprinkler” means an irrigation head that projects water through a gear rotor in single or
       multiple streams.
   33. “Turf” means a surface layer of earth containing mowed grass with its roots.
   34. “Waste of water” includes, but is not limited to:
       a. The use of water for any purpose, including landscape irrigation, that consumes or for which
            is applied substantial amounts of excess water beyond the reasonable amount required by
            the use, whether such excess water remains on the site, evaporates, percolates
            underground, goes into the sewer system, or is allowed to run into the gutter or street.
            Every water consumer is deemed to have under his control at all times the water lines and
            facilities, other than water utility facilities, through which water is being supplied and used
            to his premises, and to know the manner and extent of his water use and excess runoff.
       b. The excessive use, loss, or escape of water through breaks, leaks, or malfunctions in the
            water user's plumbing for any period of time after such escape of water should reasonably
            have been discovered and corrected. It shall be presumed that a period of 48 hours after the
            water user discovers such break, leak, or malfunction or receives notice from the City of
            such condition, whichever occurs first, is a reasonable time to correct such condition.
       c. Washing sidewalks, driveways, parking areas, tennis courts, patios, or other paved areas
            except to alleviate immediate fire, health, or safety hazards.
   35. “Water check”. See Irrigation audit.
   36. “Water conserving plant” means a plant that can generally survive with available rainfall once
       established, although supplemental irrigation may be needed or desired during the growing
       season.
   37. “Water use efficiency review” means an on-site survey and measurement of irrigation
       equipment and management efficiency and the generation of recommendations to improve
       efficiency.
   38. “Xeriscape” means a landscaping method developed especially for arid and semiarid climates
       that utilizes water-conserving techniques (as the use of drought tolerant plants, mulch, and
       efficient irrigation).
A. The intent of this Chapter is to establish landscaping and screening standards for new and expanded
   development to ensure efficient usage of water, establish landscaping quality standards, improve
   landscaping maintenance, promote land-use compatibility, and support the general welfare of the
   community. The provisions of this Chapter work toward the following goals:
   1. Increased water conservation and water efficiency;
   2. Preservation and enhancement of design continuity throughout the community;
   3. Improved management and quality of stormwater runoff;
   4. Improved health of plant and animal species;
   5. Increased compatibility between land uses;
   6. Enhanced property values;


Page 197 of 262
    7. Reduction of development-related environmental impacts through mitigation of erosion, noise,
        dust, glare, and air pollution;
    8. Reduction of energy consumption through the prudent placement of plants;
    9. Reduction of absorption and re-generation of heat from impervious surfaces;
    10. Spatial and visual separation of;
    11. Vehicular and pedestrian functions within on-site vehicular circulation and parking areas, and
    12. Parked vehicles from public view and adjacent travel ways;
    13. Enhanced outdoor spaces through increased usage of native and drought tolerant plant species
        in the developed environment; and
    14. Reduced landscape maintenance responsibilities and costs.
19.50.020 – Scope and Applicability.
The standards of this Chapter apply to:
A. New Development. Any new development and/or off-street parking facilities shall comply with the
   provisions of this Chapter. Existing landscaping must be made to conform to the provisions of this
   ordinance when landscaping for public agency projects, or private commercial, industrial, or
   multifamily projects are modified or rehabilitated. Routine maintenance does not qualify as a
   modification or rehabilitation.
B. Building Additions. Building additions which increase building coverage by twenty percent (20%) or
   more require the entire property to fully comply with this Chapter. The Director or Designee may
   grant relief from full compliance based on factors cited in the exemptions subsection (F).
C. Building Renovations. Building renovations, whether involving interior or exterior work, do not
   trigger a requirement for the property to fully comply with this ordinance. However, if such work
   involves the removal of existing plants, new plants shall be installed that create comparable
   landscape design value.
D. Residential Properties.
   1. Less than Five (5) Units. Residential properties with less than five (5) units shall comply with the
        provisions of this Chapter for front yards and side yards only. The rear yard is not subject to the
        requirements of this Chapter.
   2. Five (5) or More Units. Residential properties or developments with five (5) or more units are
        subject to all provisions of this Chapter, including rear yards.
E. Off-Street Parking Expansions.
   1. Fifty Percent (50%) or less. A parking expansion which increases the number of parking stalls by
        fifty percent (50%) or less requires that the newly established expansion area be brought into
        compliance with both the interior and exterior/perimeter landscape requirements of this
        Chapter.
   2. Fifty Percent (50%) or more. A parking expansion which increases the number of parking stalls
        by fifty percent (50%) or more requires that the entire expansion area be brought into
        compliance with both the interior and exterior/perimeter landscape requirements of this
        chapter. The pre-existing parking area, while not required to be retroactively brought into
        compliance with this Chapter’s interior parking area landscape requirements, shall be made to
        conform to exterior/perimeter area landscape standards.
   3. Repeated Expansions. Repeated expansions of parking facilities over time are combined in
        determining whether the fifty percent (50%) threshold has been reached.


Page 198 of 262
F. Exemptions. The provisions of this Chapter do not apply to the following:
   1. Exemption for Historic District Contributing Buildings. Properties listed on either the State or
      National Historic Registers may be exempt from these regulations, subject to review by the
      Director or Designee.
   2. Exemptions from Water Allowance Limitations. Areas dedicated and used for the following
      specific purposes are exempt from the landscape water allowance limitations of this Chapter:
      a. Sports fields;
      b. Turf areas within public parks;
      c. Golf courses; and
      d. Cemeteries.
   3. Limits to Exemptions. Although exempt from landscape water allowance limitations, all other
      provisions of this Chapter apply. In particular, landscaping shall be provided in the interior and
      perimeter areas of off-street parking facilities, adjacent to buildings, and along walkways.
19.50.030 – Landscape Irrigation Standards and Efficient Water Usage.
A. Establishment and Maintenance of a Site-Specific Landscape Water Allowance. To facilitate efficient
   water consumption in the establishment and long-term maintenance of site landscape
   improvements, an annual landscape water allowance shall be established and maintained for each
   improved property as set forth in this Chapter.
   1. Acceptable water efficiency shall be deemed to have been achieved when the approved
        landscape plan indicates a landscape water allowance of no more than fifteen (15) inches per
        square foot (sq. ft.) average for the entire landscaped area of the site. Multiplying this figure by
        the total irrigated landscape area in square feet yields the annual water budget for landscape
        use for the property. A conversion factor of 0.62 shall be used to convert from Inches water
        utilized to gallons.
B. Irrigation Requirements in the Landscape.
   1. All irrigation shall be appropriate for the designated plant material to achieve the highest water
        efficiency. Drip irrigation or bubblers shall be used except in Lawn areas. Drip irrigation systems
        shall be equipped with a pressure regulator, filter, flush-end assembly, and any other
        appropriate components.
   2. Each irrigation valve shall irrigate landscaping with similar site, slope and soil conditions, and
        plant materials with similar watering needs. Lawn and Planting Beds shall be irrigated on
        separate irrigation valves. In addition, drip emitters and sprinklers shall be placed on separate
        irrigation valves.
   3. Landscaped areas shall be provided with a WaterSense labeled smart irrigation controller which
        automatically adjusts the frequency and/or duration of irrigation events in response to changing
        weather conditions. All controllers shall be equipped with automatic rain delay or rain shut-off
        capabilities.
C. Introduction and Use of Native and Other Drought-Tolerant Plants. To promote maximum water
   conservation, at least eighty percent (70%) of the trees and shrubs used on a site shall be water
   conserving species, capable of withstanding dry conditions once established. Native plants shall be
   used to the maximum extent feasible. Drought-tolerant grass varieties shall be used in areas planted
   in turf or Lawn. Lists of plants that satisfy these requirements and that are available locally may be




Page 199 of 262
   obtained from the Director or Designee or by referencing Utah State University Extension Center for
   Water-Efficient Landscaping Water-Wise Plants for Utah Landscapes website.
D. Plant Establishment and Arrangement Based on Water Consumption. Though there are many ways
   plants can be distinguished from one another, the categorization based on water use is critical for
   the purpose of this ordinance. The establishment and arrangement of plants on a site according to
   the water needs of those plants is commonly referred to as hydrozone management. Hydrozone
   management is required by this Chapter and shall be implemented using the following techniques:
   1. This requires separating high water use plants, whenever possible, from medium, low, and very
       low water plant material within the landscape.
   2. Plants with similar water needs shall be clustered within the landscape in areas where water
       needs can be feasibly managed using independent hydrozones.
   3. Each independent hydrozone shall identify a inches per square foot annual irrigation target
       intended maintain the plant material selected for the zone at maturity.
   4. Each independent hydrozone will identify and appropriate irrigation strategy to meet irrigation
       target established for the hydrozone.
   5. The total average water inches per sqft distributed in all hydrozones may not exceed 15 inchers
       per sqft per year.
   6. For projects located at the interface between urban areas and natural (non-irrigated) open
       space, drought-tolerant plants that will blend with the native vegetation shall be used.
   7. Areas with slopes greater than thirty percent (30%) shall be landscaped with deep-rooting,
       water-conserving plants for erosion control and soil stabilization.
   8. Park strips and other landscaped areas less than eight feet (8’) wide shall be landscaped with
       water-conserving plants. Turf grass is prohibited.
19.50.040 – Landscape Design Standards.
A. Standards Applicable to All Developments. Required site landscape improvements shall be provided
   in accordance with the standards and design guidelines set forth in this Chapter. The standards set
   forth herein are numerically measurable to readily facilitate the preparation, review and approval of
   landscape plan submittals and the subsequent verification of compliance with the requirements of
   the Chapter. Design guidelines, though not precisely measurable, are intended to clarify the
   principles associated with specified standards, provide guidance for the review and approval of
   submitted landscape plans, and provide flexibility for design professionals who wish to propose
   alternative compliance approaches.
B. Retention of Significant Natural Features. Features that are unique to a property, such as that
   property's natural topography, existing vegetation, or riparian features shall be taken into
   consideration in the planning and design of landscape improvements for that property. Priority is to
   be given to the preservation or protection of existing undisturbed areas in the which vegetative
   cover of 60% or greater is dominated by mature native tree or wooded riparian species are present
   within a proposed development site. The proposed locations of streets, buildings and lots shall, to
   the extent possible, minimize disturbance to these areas.
C. Tree Preservation, Removal, and Replacement.
   1. Preservation of Existing Trees. All healthy, existing trees shall be preserved to the maximum
       extent feasible. Existing, living trees having a caliper of four inches (4”) or larger shall be subject
       to the Replacement provisions below.


Page 200 of 262
      a. Preserved trees shall be credited to the satisfaction of replacement trees on a three to one
         (3-to-1) caliper-to-caliper basis.
      b. Preserved trees shall be credited toward the satisfaction of the tree planting requirements
         of this Chapter.
      c. Where existing trees are to be protected, the following standards shall apply:
         (1) A fenced tree protection zone shall be established around each tree or cluster of trees
             to be retained. The perimeter of this zone, which shall coincide with the drip line of the
             tree or trees to be protected, shall be clearly marked with high-visibility materials at a
             minimum height of four feet (4’).
         (2) The storage or movement of equipment, material, debris, or fill is prohibited within the
             fenced tree protection zone to minimize soil compaction around roots.
         (3) The cleaning of equipment or material or the storage and disposal of waste material
             such as paints, oils, solvents, asphalt, concrete, motor oil or any other material harmful
             to the life of a tree is prohibited within the drip line of any protected tree or group of
             trees.
         (4) No cut or fill is permitted within the drip line of any protected existing tree or group of
             trees unless a qualified arborist, forester, or landscape architect has evaluated and
             approved the disturbance.
         (5) All protected existing trees shall be pruned as specified by a qualified arborist or
             forester.
         (6) No damaging attachment, wires, signs, or permits may be fastened to any protected
             tree.
         (7) Large property areas containing protected trees and separated from construction or
             land clearing areas, road rights-of-way, and utility easements may be "ribboned off,"
             rather than erecting protective fencing around each tree as required above. This may be
             accomplished by placing metal t-post stakes a maximum of fifty feet (50’) apart and
             tying ribbon or rope from stake-to-stake along the outside perimeters of such areas
             being cleared.
      d. The removal of trees is allowed under the following circumstances:
         (1) Where trees have naturally fallen or are determined by a licensed arborist to be dead or
             dying.
         (2) Where trees have been diagnosed by a qualified arborist as unhealthy beyond
             reasonable rehabilitation.
         (3) Where the species is classified by the Utah Department of Agriculture and Food as a
             noxious weed.
         (4) Where trees are determined to be potentially harmful to the public health, safety, or
             welfare.
         (5) Where it has been determined by the municipality that tree removal is necessary to
             restore clear visibility at driveways and intersections.
         (6) Where the preservation of trees would prevent reasonable site grading to
             accommodate a functional arrangement of buildings and related improvements on the
             property. Written documentation of the above is required prior to the removal of any
             tree.
   2. Replacement of Existing Trees.


Page 201 of 262
       a. Existing trees having a caliper of four inches (4”) in size or greater which are removed as a
            result of development or construction shall be replaced on the development site by trees of
            no less than two-inch caliper in size. The required replacement ratio shall be one (1) tree for
            every two (2) caliper inches (cumulative) of trees removed. Replacement trees shall not be
            credited toward the satisfaction of the tree planting requirements of this Chapter but shall
            be in addition to that otherwise specified.
       b. Trees identified for preservation on the landscape plan, but which die as a result of
            construction, shall be considered “existing trees removed” and shall be replaced.
   3. Maximum Replacement. On development sites with significant existing tree cover, the full
       replacement of removed trees may be impractical. In such instances, the regulations set forth
       below will apply:
       a. Residential and Open Space Uses. The installation of new and replacement trees shall be
            required up to the point where the average for the entire site reaches twenty (20) total
            trees per acre of landscape area (includes existing four-inch (4”) caliper and larger trees and
            new trees).
       b. For Non-Residential Uses. The installation of new and replacement trees shall be required
            up to the point where the average for the entire site reaches ten (10) total trees per acre of
            landscape area (includes existing four-inch (4”) caliper and larger trees, and new trees).
D. New Plantings. The measurements and specifications for all live plants used to fulfill the
   requirements of this Chapter shall be as set forth in the American Standard for Nursery Stock (ANSI
   Z60.1-204) as published and periodically amended by the American Nursery and Landscape
   Association. The following are minimums in relation to those standards. Nothing in this Chapter shall
   be interpreted to prohibit the provision of landscape improvements in excess of these minimums.
   1. Plant Quality. Required plant materials shall be nursery or field grown, unless otherwise
       approved, and shall be healthy, well-branched vigorous stock with a growth habit normal to the
       species and variety, free from defects decay, disfiguring roots, sun-scald, injuries, abrasions of
       the bark, plant diseases, insect pest eggs, borers, and all forms of infestations or objectionable
       disfigurements of diseases, insects, and injuries.
   2. Plant Coverage and Growth Rate. Within three (3) years of the initial planting, landscapes are
       required to have enough plant material to create at least seventy-five percent (75%) living plant
       cover at the ground plane, excluding tree canopies.
   3. Species Diversity. A variety of plant species shall be utilized in all site landscaping. No one
       species may make up more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the total non-turf plant materials
       within the landscaped area. Species diversity is required to prevent uniform insect or disease
       susceptibility and to stem the untimely degeneration or premature deterioration of trees
       planted or retained on a development site or in the adjacent area. The minimum requirements
       in Table 19.50.040A shall apply.
       a. Special consideration shall be given to canyon areas to protect against decimation due to
            insect to disease infestations.


             Table 19.50.040A: Tree Species Diversity Based on Number of Trees.
             Total Number of Trees on Site      Maximum Percentage of Any One Species



Page 202 of 262
            10-19                             50%
            20-39                             33%
            40-59                             25%
            60 or more                        15%
   4. Tree Placement. Trees shall be located to provide summer shade and limit winter shade on
      walks, parking lots, and streets.
   5. Root Accommodation. Prior to the installation of trees, a determination shall be made as to
      whether root barriers are necessary to prevent roots from uplifting or cracking sidewalks or
      other hard surface improvements in the vicinity of the tree. Root barrier collars and root path
      trenches shall be installed as needed to provide such protection and to ensure healthy tree root
      growth.
   6. Plant Size Requirements at Planting. All new and replacement trees, shrubs, and other plants
      shall meet the minimum size requirements shown in Table 19.50.040B.
      a. Where plant materials are secured on the basis of container size, equivalency shall be in
          accordance with the American Standard for Nursery Stock (ANSI Z60.1-204) as published
          and periodically amended by the American Nursery and Landscape Association.


   Table 19.50.040B: Tree and Shrub Size Requirements at Planting.
   Plant Type                                  Size
   Deciduous trees                             Two-inch (2”) caliper
   Ornamental and flowering trees              One and one-half inch (1.5”) caliper OR
                                               six feet (6’) in height
   Evergreen trees                             Six feet (6’) in height
   Spreading shrubs                            Eighteen inches (18”) of spread at the time of
                                               planting AND grown in a five (5) gallon container
   Upright shrubs                              Twenty-four inches (24”) of spread at the time of
                                               planting AND grown in a five (5) gallon container
   Herbaceous plants                           One (1) gallon container
   7. Mulch. At least three inches (3”) of mulch, permeable to air and water, shall be used in planting
      beds to inhibit weed growth, moderate soil temperature, and improve water retention. Newly
      planted trees in areas predominantly improved with turf shall be provided a plant-free, mulched
      area with a minimum radius of four feet (4’) around the trunks to protect the trunks from turf-
      maintenance operations and expedite tree root establishment. Nonporous materials (e.g.,
      plastic) may not be placed under mulch. Bare soil is not permitted. The following types of mulch
      are permitted:
      a. Organic mulch. Bark mulch or other organic landscape mulch commonly used in the
          industry.


Page 203 of 262
        b. Gravel mulch. Ornamental landscape gravel of fine aggregate, not exceeding one-half inch
            (.5”). White and black gravel is prohibited.
        c. Recycled mulch. Mulch made of recycled materials may be accepted upon the Director’s or
            Designee’s review and approval.
   8. Lawn and Turf Areas.
        a. Lawn may not be installed in park strips, paths, on slopes greater than twenty-five percent
            (25%) or four-to-one (4:1) grade or be less than eight feet (8') wide at its narrowest point.
        b. To the extent feasible, lawn shall be free from obstructions (trees, signs, posts, valve boxes,
            etc.).
        c. Drought-tolerant grass varieties shall be established and maintained.
        d. In commercial, industrial, institutional, and multi-family development common area
            landscapes, Lawn areas shall be equal to or less than twenty percent (20%) of the total
            landscaped area, outside of Active Recreation Areas.
   9. Areas of a site not covered with buildings or pavement are considered landscape areas and shall
        be covered with trees, shrubs, groundcover, flowers/herbaceous plants, mulch, or turf in
        compliance with the standards set forth in this Chapter. Areas of bare dirt are not
        allowed. Native landscaping may be used in appropriate locations, subject to Director or
        Designee approval.
E. In residential landscapes, the landscaping shall adhere to the following Localscapes requirements:
   1. If size permits, the landscaped areas of the front yard and street-facing side yard shall include a
        designed central open shape created by using lawn, hardscape, groundcover, gravel, or mulch.
   2. Gathering Areas shall be constructed of hardscape and placed outside of the central open
        shape. In a landscape without Lawn, Gathering Areas may function as the Central Open Shape.
   3. Activity Zones shall be located outside of the Central Open Shape and shall be surfaced with
        materials other than Lawn.
   4. Paths shall be made with materials that do not include Lawn, such as Hardscape, Mulch, or
        other groundcover.
   5. Lawn areas may not exceed two hundred and fifty square feet (250 sq. ft.), or thirty-five percent
        (35%) of the Total Landscaped Area.
   6. Small residential lots, which have no back yards, which the Total Landscaped Area is less than
        two hundred and fifty square feet (250 sq. ft.), and which the front yard dimensions cannot
        accommodate the minimum eight feet (8’) wide Lawn area requirement of the Landscaping
        Requirements, are exempt from the eight feet (8’) minimum width Lawn area requirement.
F. Certain special purpose landscape areas (e.g. stormwater management areas, etc.) may receive
   exceptions from the slope limitations and other elements of the landscaping requirements.
   Applications to receive exceptions are to be considered on a case-by-case basis by the Director or
   Designee.
19.50.050 – Landscape Yards or Setbacks and Buffer Areas.
A. Frontage Landscape Setbacks. Frontage landscape setbacks to provide landscape enhancement
   along public and private streets are required as follows:
   1. Single-Family, Two-Family, Three-Family, and Four-Family Dwellings.
       a. Area Required. The front yard area and any street-facing side yard shall be maintained as a
           landscape setback, except that driveways and pedestrian walkways are permitted.


Page 204 of 262
      b. Required Landscaping. The landscaping shall adhere to the Localscapes requirements as
         outlined in section 19.50.040.
         (1) The front yard area shall be maintained in an orderly manner with landscaping
              comprised of shrubs, flowers/herbaceous plants, trees, turf, or any combination
              thereof.
         (2) Areas of bare ground, mulch, or gravel may not be used as a substitute for landscaped
              areas.
         (3) Mulch/gravel areas shall not extend more than five feet (5’) from the branching of
              shrubs or trunks of trees.
         (4) At least one tree, either shade or ornamental, shall be planted for every twenty-five feet
              (25’) of yard frontage, rounded to the nearest whole number.
         (5) At least fifty percent (50%) of the linear foot length of the front building wall shall be
              planted with shrubs or flowers/herbaceous plants.
         (6) At least fifty percent (50%) of any landscaped areas must have canopy coverage from
              live plant growth.
         (7) A maximum of fifty percent (50%) of the front yard area and any street-facing side yard
              shall be impervious surfaces.
      c. Maximum Area of Turf. The area of domestic turf on any property may not exceed thirty-
         five (35%) of the total landscape area.
   2. Multiple-Family Uses.
      a. Area Required. Unless a reduced building setback has been allowed by ordinance or
         variance, a landscape setback of twenty feet (20’) in depth shall be maintained along the
         property frontage, except that driveways and pedestrian walkways are permitted.
      b. Required Landscaping.
         (1) The front yard area shall be maintained in an orderly manner with landscaping
              comprised of shrubs, flowers/herbaceous plants, trees, turf, or any combination
              thereof.
         (2) Areas of bare ground, mulch, or gravel may not be used as a substitute for landscaped
              areas.
         (3) Mulch/gravel areas shall not extend more than five feet (5’) from the branching of
              shrubs or trunks of trees.
         (4) At least one tree, either shade or ornamental, shall be planted for every twenty-five feet
              (25’) of yard frontage, rounded to the nearest whole number.
         (5) At least one shrub shall be planted for every forty square feet (40 sq. ft.) of landscape
              area within the landscape setback. Three herbaceous plants with a mature height of
              thirty inches (30”) or more may be substituted for one shrub.
      c. Maximum Area of Turf. The area of domestic turf on any property shall not exceed thirty
         five percent (35%) of the total landscape area.
   3. Commercial, Office, and Public Uses.
      a. Area Required. If a front yard is provided, a minimum landscape area 10 feet (10’) in depth
         shall be maintained along the frontage, except that driveways and pedestrian walkways are
         permitted.
      b. Patio Seating. Up to fifty percent (50%) of the required landscape area for restaurants can
         be patio seating.


Page 205 of 262
       c. Required Landscaping.
           (1) The landscape setback area shall be maintained in an orderly manner with landscaping
                comprised of shrubs, flowers/herbaceous plants, trees, turf, or any combination
                thereof.
           (2) Areas of bare ground, mulch, or gravel may not be used as a substitute for landscaped
                areas.
           (3) Mulch/gravel areas shall not extend more than five feet (5’) from the branching of
                shrubs or trunks of trees.
           (4) At least one tree, either shade or ornamental, shall be planted for every twenty-five feet
                (25’) of yard frontage, rounded to the nearest whole number.
           (5) At least one shrub shall be planted for every forty square feet (40 sq. ft.) of landscape
                area within the landscape setback. Three herbaceous plants with a mature height of
                thirty inches (30”) or more may be substituted for one shrub.
           (6) If a patio area is established, planter boxes or other landscaping types shall be included
                to visually soften the hard surface of the patio area.
       d. Maximum Area of Turf. The area of domestic turf on any property shall not exceed thirty
           five percent (35%) of the total landscape area.
   4. Industrial Uses.
       a. Area Required. The required front yard area shall be maintained as a landscape setback,
           except that driveways and pedestrian walkways are permitted.
       b. Required Landscaping.
           (1) The landscape setback area shall be maintained in an orderly manner with landscaping
                comprised of shrubs, flowers/herbaceous plants, trees, turf, or any combination
                thereof.
           (2) Areas of bare ground, mulch, or gravel may not be used as a substitute for landscaped
                areas.
           (3) Mulch/gravel areas shall not extend more than five feet (5’) from the branching of
                shrubs or trunks of trees.
           (4) At least one tree, either shade or ornamental, shall be planted for every twenty-five feet
                (25’) of yard frontage, rounded to the nearest whole number.
           (5) At least one shrub shall be planted for every forty square feet (40 sq. ft.) of landscape
                area within the landscape setback. Three herbaceous plants with a mature height of
                thirty inches (30”) or more may be substituted for one shrub
       c. Maximum Area of Turf. The area of domestic turf on any property shall not exceed thirty
           five percent (35%) of the total landscape area.
   5. Open Space Uses. Open space uses such as parks, golf courses, sports fields, cemeteries, etc.
       a. Area Required. The required front yard area shall be maintained as a landscape setback,
           except that driveways and pedestrian walkways are permitted
       b. Required Landscaping. The landscape setback area shall be maintained in an orderly
           manner with landscaping comprised of shrubs, flowers/herbaceous plants, trees, turf, or any
           combination thereof.
B. Buffer Areas between Nonresidential and Residential Land Uses. The following provisions apply
   whenever a non-residential use abuts with a residential or open-space use.



Page 206 of 262
   1. Landscape Area. A landscaped buffer area not less than twenty feet (20’) wide shall be required
       between nonresidential and residential uses.
   2. Required Landscaping.
       a. The landscape buffer area shall be maintained in an orderly manner with landscaping
           comprised of shrubs, flowers/herbaceous plants, trees, turf, or any combination thereof.
       b. Areas of bare ground, mulch, or gravel may not be used as a substitute for landscaped
           areas.
       c. Mulch/gravel areas may not extend more than five feet (5') from the branching of shrubs or
           trunks of trees.
       d. At least one tree, either shade or ornamental, shall be planted for every twenty feet (20') of
           length of the buffer, rounded to the nearest whole number. Trees may be planted in a
           linear or cluster arrangement, so long as the spacing of provided trees adequately screens
           the nonresidential use from the adjacent residential use. If a linear arrangement of trees is
           provided, tree spacing shall not exceed twenty feet (20’) on center.
       e. At least one shrub shall be planted for every thirty square feet (30 sq. ft.) of landscape area.
C. Building Foundation Landscaping.
   1. If a multi-family residential, mixed-use, or non-residential development maintains a front or
       corner side yard of ten feet (10’) or more, building foundation landscaping is required.
   2. Foundation plantings shall be designed to work in concert with buffer yard plantings to frame
       important views and to visually soften long expanses of walls, particularly those that lack
       windows or other architectural details. Foundation plantings shall be compatible with the
       materials and the form of a building.
   3. Foundation plantings shall be installed across sixty percent (60%) of the length of the facade of
       the building.
   4. Foundation plantings may consist of a mix of trees, shrubs, and herbaceous plants.
   5. To prevent crime, foundation plantings shall not block or hide building entrances or windows.
   6. Landscaping requirements for sides of retail buildings facing accessory parking lots may be
       reduced or eliminated to accommodate pedestrian access.


19.50.060 – Landscaping of Park Strips.
A. Landscaping Responsibility. Although park strips are part of the public right-of-way, it is the
   responsibility of the property owner immediately adjacent to a park strip to provide for basic
   maintenance of that park strip. This responsibility includes the establishment and maintenance of
   landscaping that conforms to these regulations
B. Irrigation. It is the responsibility of the adjacent property owner to provide regular and adequate
   watering to ensure the health of park strip landscaping. If the adjacent property is irrigated, the
   irrigation system shall be extended to include the park strip.
C. Applicability.
   1. Any new development shall provide park strip landscaping in conformance with these
        regulations.
   2. Existing development is not required to provide park strip landscaping, except where the
        provisions of Section 19.50.020 apply.



Page 207 of 262
     3. Any new park strip landscaping done in conjunction with existing development shall conform to
         these regulations.
D.   Landscape Plans. For all new development, park strips shall be shown on all landscape plans for
     approval.
E.   Pavement in Park Strips.
     1. A paved pedestrian walkway up to five feet (5’) in width is allowed across any park strip.
     2. Subject to the approval of the Director or Designee, pavement in lieu of landscaping may be
         allowed in park strips of less than five feet (5’) in width.
     3. Paving in park strips with a width of five feet (5’) or greater is only allowed when the
         maintenance of landscaping is impractical due to site topography, lack of direct access, traffic
         patterns, or other such factors and is subject to approval by the Director or Designee.
     4. The pavement allowed in subsections 2 and 3 shall consist of decorative stamped concrete,
         removable brick, or paving stones.
F.   Plants.
     1. The type of plants used in park strip landscaping shall be at the discretion of the adjacent
         property owner, subject to these regulations. The use of water efficient standards as outlined in
         Landscape Irrigation and Efficient Water Use Section 19.50.030 of this Chapter is required.
     2. Lawn is prohibited in areas less than eight feet (8’) wide. The use of drought-tolerant plants is
         encouraged.
     3. No less than fifty percent (50%) of the ground area of a park strip may be covered by plants,
         which shall be either turf, evergreen or deciduous groundcover, herbaceous plants, or shrubs
         that do not exceed a mature height of eighteen inches (18”). No plant may create a visibility
         obstruction for motorists. Up to fifty percent (50%) of the ground area of the park strip may be
         covered with mulch or gravel.
G.   Trees in Park Strips. One deciduous tree shall be planted in the park strip area for every twenty-five
     (25) linear feet of lot frontage, rounded to the nearest whole number. All trees shall be planted in
     the center of the width of the park strip.
     1. Trees Prohibited for Park Strips. Any tree or shrub that could conflict with the safe use of the
         right-of-way is prohibited in the park strip. Some of these trees include:
         a. Box Elder – Acer negundo
         b. Silver Maple – Acer saccharinum
         c. Tree of Heaven – Ailantus altissima
         d. River Birch – Betula nigra
         e. Russian Olive – Eleagnus angustifolia
         f. Poplar (all, includes Cottonwood) – Populus spp.
         g. Quaking Aspen – Populus tremuloides
         h. Flowering Plum – Prunus cerasifera
         i. Pin Oak – Quercus palustris
         j. Idaho Locust – Robina x ambigua ‘Idahoensis’
         k. Willow (all) – Salix spp.
         l. Siberian Elm – Ulmus pumila
     2. Trees Recommended for Park Strips.
         a. Paperbark Maple – Acer Griseum
         b. Tatarian Maple, single stemmed – Acer tatrium


Page 208 of 262
       c. Netleaf Hackberry – Celtis reticulate
       d. Thornless Cockspur Hawthorn – Crataegus crus-galli var. inermis
       e. La Valle Hawthorn – Crataegus x lavallei ‘Carrier’
       f. Amur Maakia – Maackia amurensis
       g. Fruitless Crabapple – Malus, ioensis ‘Klem’s Improved’ or ‘Spring Snow’, etc.
       h. Eastern redbud – Cercis Canadensis
       i. Blackhaw Viburnum – Viburnum prunifolium
    3. Trees Appropriate for Use Under Powerlines.
       a. Netleaf Hackberry – Celtis reticulate
       b. Seedless Ash – Fraxinum pennsylvatica lanceolata ‘Marshall Seedless’
       c. Thornless Honeylocust – Gleditsia tricanthos var. inermis ‘Imperial’
       d. Goldenrain Tree – Koelreuteria paniculate
       e. Crabapple spp – Malus ioensis ‘Spring Snow,’ ‘Snow Drift,’ ‘Centurion,’ and ‘Zumi’
       f. Callery Pear – Pyrus calleriana ‘Aristocrat,’ Chanticleer’,’ and ‘Redspire’
       g. Japanese Pagodatree – Sophora japonica ‘Regent’
    4. Other species of trees may be used, subject to review and approval by the Director or Designee.
19.50.070 – Landscaping of Parking Lots.
A. Frontage Landscaping. The landscaping of parking lots along public and private streets is subject to
   the provisions of Section 19.50.060.
B. Side Landscaping. The landscaping of parking lots parallel to side lot lines shall conform to the
   following:
   1. A landscape area at least five feet in width, exclusive of car overhang, shall be provided.
   2. Required Landscaping.
        a. At least one tree shall be planted for every twenty-five feet (25’) of length, rounded to the
            nearest whole number. Trees may be either shade, ornamental or evergreen.
        b. At least one upright shrub shall be planted for every six feet (6’) of length.
        c. Additional herbaceous plantings are encouraged.
        d. The remainder of the landscape areas may be covered in mulch, gravel, or turf.
C. Interior Parking Lot Landscaping. Interior, curbed landscape parking lot islands or medians are
   required in parking lots consisting of twenty (20) or more spaces.
   1. Islands.
        a. Number of Parking Lot Islands Required.
            (1) At least one parking lot island shall be provided for every ten (10) parking spaces.
            (2) All rows of parking spaces shall be terminated by a parking lot island, which may result
                in more than one island for every ten (10) spaces.
            (3) Parking lot island locations may be varied based on specific site requirements or design
                scheme.
            (4) Where a row of parking exceeds twenty (20) spaces, a parking lot island shall be located
                in the middle of the row.
        b. Size of Parking Lot Islands.
            (1) Parking lot islands shall be the same dimension as a standard parking stall, as required in
                Chapter 19.48.




Page 209 of 262
            (2) Double rows of parking shall provide parking lot islands that are the same dimension as
                 the double row.
   2. Medians.
       a. Number of Parking Lot Medians.
            (1) One continuous median per row of head-in parking stalls may be used in place of
                 parking lot islands.
       b. Size of Parking Lot Medians.
            (1) The length of parking lot medians shall be equal to the length of each row of parking
                 stalls when the median abuts a single row of parking stalls or acts as a divider median
                 separating opposing rows of head-in parking stalls.
            (2) The width of parking lot medians shall be:
                 (A) Eight feet (8’), with consideration for vehicle overhang, where divider
                          medians occur adjacent to head-in parking stalls, or
                 (B) 10 feet (10’), with consideration for vehicle overhang, for divider medians
                      separating opposing rows of head-in parking stalls.
D. Interior Parking Lot Design.
   1. Design of Parking Lot Islands and Medians.
       a. Parking lot islands, medians, or landscaped areas shall be surrounded with a six-inch (6”)
            high concrete curb. In cases where the parking lot island or median is designed specifically
            for the absorption of stormwater, the curb requirements may be modified.
       b. Islands, medians, and landscaped areas shall be properly drained and irrigated, as
            appropriate for the site conditions and plant species, to ensure healthy plant growth.
   2. Required Trees.
       a. One shade tree shall be planted for every twenty-five feet (25’) of length in a parking lot
            median.
       b. A minimum of one shade tree shall be provided for every parking lot island.
       c. If the island extends the width of a double row, then two shade trees shall be provided.
   3. Groundcover Plantings.
       a. A minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the surface area of each parking lot island or median
            shall be planted in low-growing shrubs, groundcover, perennials, ornamental grasses or
            other herbaceous plants.
       b. To avoid visibility obstructions, plantings shall not reach a mature height of more than thirty
            inches (30”).
       c. The use of drought-tolerant plants is encouraged.
       d. The entire parking lot island or median shall be mulched to promote plant health and to
            retain water.
       e. No turf shall be planted in parking lot islands or medians.
   4. Pedestrian Walkways.
       a. Parking lots shall be designed to provide pedestrian walkways that link the public sidewalk
            along the street with the front door of the building.
       b. A landscape area at least three feet (3’) in width shall be located along one side of such
            walkway and shall be planted with trees, shrubs and herbaceous plants at the discretion of
            the applicant.
E. Wheel Stops.


Page 210 of 262
    1. Wheel stops shall be installed no less than two feet (2’) from the edge of any landscape area
       where vehicular parking stalls abut interior parking area landscaping that is not situated within
       and protected by a landscape planter.


19.50.080 – Landscaping of Drive-Through Facilities.
A. Plantings and related landscape improvements shall be provided in conjunction with drive-through
   service facilities, including automatic car washes, in order to:
   1. Introduce a more aesthetically pleasing approach to these types of vehicular activities on newly
       developed or redeveloped sites;
   2. Better integrate these types of land uses into the established character of surrounding area
       improvements; and
   3. Screen queued vehicles from the view of passing motorists on adjacent roadways.
B. Trees Required.
   1. One (1) tree shall be planted for each one hundred and twenty-five square feet (125 sq. ft.) or
       more of landscape area. Landscape areas of less than one hundred and twenty-five square feet
       (125 sq. ft.) do not require a tree to be planted.
C. Groundcover Plantings.
   1. A minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the surface area of each landscape area shall be planted in
       low-growing shrubs, groundcover, perennials, ornamental grasses, or other herbaceous plants.
   2. To avoid visibility obstructions, these plantings shall not reach a mature height of more than
       thirty inches (30”).
D. Mulch.
   1. The entire landscape area shall be mulched to promote plant health and retain water. No turf
       shall be planted in these landscape areas.
E. Water efficient landscaping.
   1. Landscaping shall follow the guidelines for the Landscape Irrigation Standards and Efficient
       Water Usage Section 19.50.030 of this Chapter.
19.50.090 - Car Wash Water Efficiency Standards.
A. Purpose and Applicability. In order to preserve the limited water resources available within the
   Municipality, all new and rehabilitated car washes must comply with these applicable water
   efficiency standards.
B. Water Recycling Encouraged. Recycling of all water used in a car wash is encouraged to reduce the
   amount of fresh culinary water used.
C. Plumbing for Water Recycling Systems Required. All car washes shall be plumbed at the time of
   construction to provide for water recycling systems for both wash water and reverse osmosis rinse
   water systems, whether installed or not.
D. Water Efficiency Standards.
   1. All car washes shall install systems and equipment to limit the amount of fresh culinary water
        used on a per-vehicle basis. No car wash, new or rehabilitated, may be permitted unless the
        applicant can demonstrate that the system shall not use more than an average of thirty-five (35)
        gallons of culinary water per vehicle.



Page 211 of 262
    2. At the time of construction or rehabilitation, systems which recycle water used for vehicle
       washing and recycle reverse osmosis reject water shall be installed and used in perpetuity.
    3. The use of secondary irrigation water in the wash cycle may be permitted in lieu of some
       recycling requirements if available and approved by the water provider and Director or
       Designee.
    4. The use of recycling water systems and the disposal of water fluids and solids shall comply with
       applicable state and federal laws, guidelines, and standards.
    5. Larger storage tanks may be permitted on site in order to capture or re-use water.
19.50.090 – Functional Enhancements.
A. Pedestrian and Vehicular Pathways. The design of pedestrian and vehicular travel ways for multiple-
   family, residential, retail commercial, office, public and quasi-public, and mixed-use developments
   shall incorporate plantings and related landscape improvements for separation of pedestrian and
   vehicular traffic movements, improved pedestrian convenience and safety, and better-defined
   vehicular circulation and parking.
B. Building Entrances, Drop-off and Pick-up, and Outdoor Dining Areas. Plantings and related landscape
   improvements shall be incorporated into the design of building entrances, drop-off and pick-up, and
   outdoor dining areas in order to:
   1. Separate these areas from on-site vehicular circulation and parking facilities and from off-site
       traffic;
   2. Enhance pedestrian comfort, convenience, and safety; and
   3. Facilitate outdoor dining with maximum insulation from vehicular traffic impacts.
19.50.100 – Stormwater Management Facilities Requirements and Landscaping.
All detention/retention basins, ponds and other stormwater facilities shall be improved with
landscaping, which may include shade and ornamental trees, evergreens, shrubbery, hedges, turf,
groundcover, and other plants and related landscape improvements.


19.50.110 – Screening Requirements.
Residential properties with less than five (5) units are exempt from the Screening Requirements of
Section 19.XX.110; all other properties shall comply.
A. Refuse Disposal Dumpsters and Refuse Storage Areas.
    1. All refuse containers shall be fully enclosed on three (3) sides by a six foot (6’) high solid visual
        barrier constructed of wood, simulated wood, vinyl screen fence, opaque masonry wall (stone,
        stucco, or brick), or decorative concrete wall.
    2. The remaining side of the enclosure shall be gated and screened in such a manner as to reduce
        the visual impact of the refuse container.
    3. An extension of an exterior principal structure wall may be used as one of the screening walls
        for a refuse container, provided that such wall meets the minimum six-foot (6’) height
        requirement and is of the same building materials as the principal structure. Such wall may not
        be the gated enclosure.
    4. The materials used for screening shall complement the architecture of the principal
        structure.


Page 212 of 262
B. Loading Berths.
   1. Loading berths in all zoning districts shall be screened as much as feasible, unless the Director or
        Designee determines that screening is unnecessary.
   2. Screening shall consist of an opaque masonry wall (stone, stucco, or brick), a solid wood or
        simulated wood screen fence, or dense evergreen hedge, at least six feet (6’) in height.
   3. Where feasible, loading berths shall be located and oriented so they are not be visible from the
        street and adjacent properties, while still allowing access to the use they are serving.
C. Outdoor Storage and Display Areas.
   1. Outdoor Storage Areas.
        a. All outdoor storage areas shall be completely screened by an opaque masonry wall (stone,
            stucco or brick) or a solid wood or simulated wood screen fence no less than six feet (6’) in
            height.
        b. Where feasible, plants to provide a softening effect shall be installed along the fence or wall
            located along the public right-of-way.
        c. No materials stored outdoors shall be of a greater height than the required fence or wall.
   2. Outdoor Sales and Display Areas.
        a. Display Areas Abutting Residential Zoning Districts. When the rear or interior side yard of an
            outdoor display area abuts a residential zoning district or use, or the rear yard is separated
            from a residential zoning district or use by an alley, the outdoor display area shall be
            effectively screened from view by an opaque masonry wall (stone, stucco, or brick), a solid
            wood or simulated wood screen fence or dense evergreen hedge, at least six feet (6’) in
            height.
        b. Display Areas Abutting Public Right-of-Way.
            (1) To enhance the view from a public right-of-way, all outdoor display areas shall be
                designed with a landscaped yard along the public right-of-way, excluding alleys, a
                minimum of ten feet (10’) in width, planted with one (1) shade or evergreen tree per
                twenty-five feet (25’), and supplemented with shrubs and perennials.
            (2) These screening requirements are not intended to prohibit openings reasonably
                necessary for access drives and walkways.
        c. Motor Vehicle Dealerships.
            (1) Motor vehicle dealerships or rental establishments with outdoor sales and display lots
                shall be designed with permanent screening along the right-of-way, meeting the
                requirements of subsection (b) above, but such plantings may be clustered.
            (2) To optimize the view of motor vehicles for sale, the screening may consist entirely of
                small shrubs or a low pedestrian wall of no less than two feet (2’) in height.
        d. Nursery Stock. Growing areas for nursery stock located in the front or corner side yard shall
            meet screening requirements.
D. Screening of Service and Mechanical Equipment. Service areas and on-grade mechanical equipment
   shall be screened from public view by plants, solid opaque fencing, berms, or a combination thereof.
   These elements shall also be sited to minimize their visibility and impact or enclosed so as to appear
   to be an integral part of the architectural design of the building. Site elements that are subject to
   this provision include:
   1. Air conditioning units;
   2. Electrical transformers;


Page 213 of 262
   3. Loading areas and docks;
   4. Mechanical equipment;
   5. Outdoor storage areas;
   6. Public utility transformers;
   7. Service yards; and
   8. Telephone transformers.
E. Perimeter boundaries of off-street parking areas.
   1. The perimeter boundaries of all off-street parking areas that abut streets accessible to the
       public shall be landscaped and screened from public view. Specified yard area depth
       measurements are from the public right-of-way or private street easement boundary.
       a. Front and Street Side Areas Where a Yard or Setback Depth of no Less Than Twenty Feet
          (20’) is Maintained.
          (1) An area of land graded and re-contoured at a maximum slope ratio of three feet
               horizontal to one foot vertical (3:1) so as to provide a meandering earthen berm
               traversing the entire width of the area and having a maximum height of three feet (3’)
               and an average height of thirty-two inches (32”), as measured from the grade of the
               closest abutting sidewalk or top of curb is required.
          (2) Landscaping within yards located between a street and a parking area shall include
               street trees as specified in this Chapter. In addition, not less than fifty percent (50%) of
               these landscaped yards shall include a mix of evergreen and deciduous shrubs,
               herbaceous perennials, and non-turf groundcover. The balance of this area may be
               planted in turf and utilized for the placement of large boulders or similar visual accents
               so long as the combination of berms, plantings, and visual accents effectively screen
               from public view any parked vehicles in contiguous off-street parking areas on the
               property.
       b. Provisions for Yard Reductions to No Less Than Fifteen Feet (15’). Front and street side
          yards or setback areas with no abutting off-street parking may be reduced to a depth of not
          less than fifteen feet (15’) with provision of the following:
          (1) An open decorative fence (picket, split rail, etc.) on the interior side of the landscaped
               area. Alternatively, a continuous hedge no less than three feet (3’) in height at planting
               but not more than six feet (6’), as measured from the grade of the abutting sidewalk or
               street, may be provided.
          (2) An area of land graded and re-contoured at a maximum slope ratio of three feet
               horizontal to one foot vertical (3:1) so as to provide a meandering earthen berm
               traversing the entire width of the area and having a maximum height of thirty-two
               inches (32”) and an average height of two feet, as measured from the grade of the
               closest abutting sidewalk or top of curb.
          (3) No less than seventy-five percent (75%) coverage of the landscaped area with street
               trees (includes canopy at maturity) as specified in this Chapter together with a mix of
               sub-canopy evergreen and deciduous shrubs, herbaceous perennials, and non-turf
               groundcover. The balance of this area may be planted in turf and utilized for the
               placement of large boulders or similar visual accents.
       c. Provisions for Encroachment of Off-Street Parking Areas into Required Front and Street Side
          Yards or Setback Areas.


Page 214 of 262
            (1) Encroachments to Within Twelve Feet (12’). Off-street parking areas may encroach into
                required front and street side yard or setback areas such that a minimum depth of not
                less than twelve feet is maintained subject to provision of the following:
                (A) An area of land graded and re-contoured at a maximum slope ratio three feet
                     horizontal to one foot vertical (3:1) so as to provide an earthen berm traversing the
                     entire width of the area with a height of no less than thirty inches (30”) above the
                     grade of the abutting sidewalk or street and supported on its interior side by a
                     masonry retaining wall no less than four feet (4’) in height above the grade of the
                     abutting off-street parking area surface. The use of this alternative is restricted to
                     properties where it is feasible to provide a parking area with a finished grade at
                     least two feet (2’) below the grade of the adjacent street.
                (B) No less than seventy-five percent (75%) coverage of the landscaped area with street
                     trees (includes canopy at maturity) as specified in this chapter, together with a mix
                     of sub-canopy evergreen and deciduous shrubs, herbaceous perennials, and non-
                     turf groundcover. The balance of this area may be planted in turf and utilized for the
                     placement of large boulders or similar visual accents.
19.50.120 – Landscape Plan Required.
A. General Provisions.
   1. All applications for site development plan approval for land uses subject to this Chapter shall be
       accompanied by a landscape plan package and water allowance worksheet prepared in
       accordance with the requirements of this Chapter.
   2. Submitted landscape plan packages shall be prepared and certified for compliance with all
       requirements of this Chapter by a landscape architect licensed to practice in the State of Utah
       under Utah Code Title 58. A landscape designer certified by the Utah Nursery and Landscape
       Association may submit a landscape plan package if the certified designer is employed by the
       contractor installing plantings of the specific project submitted.
   3. All submitted irrigation plans shall be prepared by a qualified professional who is licensed under
       Utah Code Title 58 or by a person who is exempt from professional licensure requirements for
       the scope of work performed.
   4. Best industry practices shall be observed during construction to ensure that the approved
       landscape plan is fully implemented. It is recommended that the standards of the Utah State
       University Extension’s Center for Water Efficient Landscaping be observed in the selection,
       handling, planting, and maintenance of plants used in the landscape plan.
B. Landscape Plan Package Contents. The information to be provided with the landscape plan package
   shall be presented in the following format:
   1. Project Data.


       Table 19.50.120A: Table of Requirements for Project Data Sheet.
       Information Required                                    Preliminary        Final
       The project title and county site development plan            X              X
       application number (the file number assigned to the


Page 215 of 262
      development proposal that the landscape plan is
      associated with)
      Preparation date and issue/revision/date table               X            X
      The name, address, telephone number, fax, and e-
                                                                   X            X
      mail of the applicant or authorized agent
      The name, address, telephone number, fax, and e-
      mail of the landscape architect, landscape designer,
      or other qualified professional who prepared the             X            X
      landscape plan, together with their professional
      registration stamp (as required)
      The landscape contractor to be used on the project, if
                                                                   X            X
      known at the time of application
      Site vicinity and location map, including the street
      address and tax identification number of the                 X            X
      property
      Sheet index                                                  X            X
      General landscape design intent statement including
      the general character and location of proposed
                                                                   X            X
      landscaping and open area and how it meets the
      intent of these regulations
      Annual water budget worksheet                                X            X
      Soils analysis and proposed soils amendments                 X            X
      Signature block for landscape package approval                            X


   2. Grading and Drainage Plan.


      Table 19.50.120B: Table of Requirements for Grading and Drainage Plan.
      Information Required                                     Preliminary     Final
      Scale, north arrow, site boundary including adjacent
                                                                   X            X
      property lines and street names
      Existing and proposed adjacent uses                          X            X
      Existing and proposed private driveways, off-street
      parking areas, patios, walkways, service areas and           X            X
      other paved surfaces




Page 216 of 262
      Existing and proposed buildings and structures
                                                                   X          X
      (general locations)
      Existing and proposed utilities and easements                X          X
      Limits of proposed site disturbance                          X          X
      Existing and proposed building and structure finish
                                                                   X          X
      floor elevations
      Spot elevations and contour lines at no more than
      one foot (1’) intervals to determine high points and
                                                                   X          X
      low points, positive drainage of paved surfaces, wall
      heights and other vertical control
      Existing landscaping, including location, type, and
                                                                   X          X
      size
      Any existing landscaping proposed to be removed
                                                                   X          X



   3. Landscape Planting Plan.


      Table 19.50.120C: Table of Requirements for Landscape Planting Plan.
      Information Required                                     Preliminary   Final
      Base plan consisting in information included on the
                                                                   X          X
      grading and drainage plan
      Limits of proposed site disturbance                          X          X
      General landscape improvements with planting
      symbols clearly drawn to indicate location and
      general plant category (deciduous tree, evergreen            X          X
      tree, deciduous shrub, evergreen shrub, groundcover,
      etc.)
      Legend of plant category symbols keyed to general
      plant material schedule indicating quantities of each
                                                                   X          X
      plant category and listing of plant species (including
      Latin name) included in each category
      Typical detail drawings at one inch equals twenty feet
      (1”=20’) to illustrate perimeter treatment, buffering,
                                                                   X          X
      typical front yard, and any special treatment areas on
      the site




Page 217 of 262
      All hydrozone boundaries and total area within each
      hydrozone with each hydrozone clearly labeled high,          X              X
      moderate, low, or very low
      Detailed landscape improvements with planting
      symbols clearly drawn to indicate each plant
                                                                   X              X
      (deciduous tree, evergreen tree, deciduous shrub,
      evergreen shrub, groundcover, etc.)
      Detailed plant material schedule with abbreviation
      identification key, quantity of each plant, botanical
      name, common name, hydrozone rating (high,                   X              X
      moderate, low, or very low), plant/container size,
      spacing, and notes
      Define areas to be considered open areas and specify
      if they will be public or private. Indicate how open
      areas will be maintained including: erosion control,         X              X
      re-vegetation, and weed management both during
      and after construction
      Plant installation, mulching, tree staking, and any
                                                                   X              X
      other applicable planting and installation details
      Soil preparation details, including instructions to
      scarify planting pit bottom and sides and surface
                                                                   X              X
      ground planes to promote root penetration in
      compacted soils
      Protection of existing plant and other site features to
      remain, clearly identifying the locations, species, size,
                                                                   X              X
      and condition of all significant trees, each labeled as
      to its intended retention, relocation, or removal


   4. Soils Report. A soils report is required in all cases. Special procedures or requirements shall be
      incorporated in the preparation and recommendations of the soils report where the past use of
      a site has resulted in soil contamination or where difficult soil or landscaping conditions are
      known to exist. The soils report shall describe:
      a. The depth, composition, fertility, bulk density, and landscaping suitability of the topsoil and
           subsoil at the site;
      b. Soil class;
      c. An approximate soil infiltration rate for site soils, either measured or derived from soil
           texture/infiltration rate tables. A range of infiltration rates shall be noted where
           appropriate;
      d. A measure of pH, electroconductivity (ERC), salt absorption ratio (SAR) and organic matter;
           and


Page 218 of 262
       e. Recommendations for retention and re-use of viable topsoil on the site together with such
            soil amendments as are necessary to ensure the health and sustainability of the landscaping
            to be planted.
       f. The final recommendations of the soils report shall be incorporated into the landscape
            planting plan and implemented with site planting operations.
    5. Irrigation Plan. A detailed irrigation plan shall be drawn at the same scale as the landscape
       planting plan and shall reflect the requirements set forth in Section 19.50.030 of this Chapter.
    6. Irrigation Schedule. The irrigation schedule required in Section 19.50.030 shall be provided in
       tabular form and shall specify:
       a. Plant type (e.g., turf, trees, low water use plants);
       b. Irrigation type (e.g., sprinklers, drip, bubblers);
       c. Flow rate in gallons per minute;
       d. Precipitation rate in inches per hour (sprinklers only);
       e. Run times in minutes per day;
       f. Number of water days per week; and
       g. Cycle time to avoid runoff.
19.50.130 – Construction Inspection.
A. Construction Observation and Certification of Compliance. Construction observation and monitoring
   of all required landscape improvements shall be provided by a licensed landscape architect so as to
   ensure compliance with the approved landscape plans for the site.
B. Right to Inspect. The Director or Designee reserves the right to perform site inspections at any time
   and to require corrective measures regarding the installation of site landscaping and irrigation
   system improvements found not to comply with the requirements of this Chapter.
C. The Director or Designee shall field-verify landscaping improvements prior to final project approval.
19.50.140 – Post-Construction Verification of Compliance.
A. Single-Phase Projects. Following construction and prior to issuing an approval for occupancy, a
   landscape architect or other qualified professional shall complete a site inspection of all installed
   site landscaping improvements and provide written certification of compliance with approved plans.
   The Director or Designee shall field-verify landscaping improvements prior to final project approval.
   Certification of compliance with approved irrigation plans shall be provided by the licensed
   professional under whose construction observation the irrigation system was installed.
B. Multi-Phase Projects. Projects approved for development in multiple phases shall be inspected and
   certified to be in compliance with the approved plans for each respective phase prior to the
   occupancy or use of the development associated with that phase. Permits shall not be issued for
   subsequent phases without prior Director or Designee approval until this requirement has been
   satisfied.
19.50.150 – Certificate of Substantial Completion.
Upon completion of all required landscaping improvements the property owner shall complete a
certificate of substantial completion for submittal to the Director or Designee. A disclosure document
shall be filed with the County Recorder's Office clearly indicating that the property is subject to the
requirements of this Chapter and that any re-landscaping by the present or future property owners shall



Page 219 of 262
be in accordance with the certified landscape plan for the property. Proof of recordation shall be
provided prior to final land use approval.
19.50.160 – Long-Term Viability of Established Landscapes.
A. Plant Maintenance. The owner, tenant and any agent shall be jointly and severally responsible for
   the maintenance of all landscaping in good condition and free from refuse and debris so as to
   present a healthy, neat and orderly appearance. Where applicable, an adequately funded
   Homeowner's or Property Owner's Association shall assume and be held liable for such
   responsibilities. In the latter instance, provisions for long-term maintenance of required landscaping
   in the event of dissolution of the Homeowner's or Property Owner's Association shall be provided
   prior to landscape plan acceptance.
B. Plant Survival. All plant materials shall be regularly maintained in a healthy condition and shall be
   guaranteed for survival for two (2) years from planting. During this period, each plant shall show at
   least seventy-five percent (75%) healthy growth and shall have the natural characteristic of the plant
   of its species. Any plant found dead or unsatisfactory by the Director or Designee during the
   guarantee period shall be replaced until it has lived through the required two (2) year survival
   period.
19.50.170 – Completion of and Submittal of Water Performance Audit.
Following construction and prior to issuing an approval for occupancy, a water audit shall be conducted
by an IA certified landscape irrigation auditor. Irrigation system improvements required to achieve
compliance with the requirements of this Chapter shall be provided by the property owner as necessary.
The water performance audit will verify that the irrigation system complies with the minimum standards
of this chapter. The minimum efficiency required for the irrigation system is sixty percent (60%) for the
distribution efficiency for all fixed spray systems and seventy percent (70%) distribution efficiency for all
rotor systems. Copies of the auditor's certification of compliance shall be provided to the Director or
Designee for retention in the project file as well as to the irrigation system designer, installer, and
owner/developer of the property. Compliance with this provision is required before the Director or
Designee will issue a letter of final acceptance.
19.50.180 – Enforcement of Landscape Regulations.
A. No building permit or occupancy permit shall be issued for any lot or use subject to the
   requirements of this chapter unless all the requirements of this chapter have been fulfilled.
B. If weather or other factors prohibit the installation of landscaping at the time an occupancy permit
   is applied for, the applicant shall post a bond to guarantee the completion of the landscaping, which
   shall be returned upon completion of required landscaping.
C. Failure to implement the landscape plan, or to maintain the lot or use in substantial conformance
   with the landscape plan, shall be cause for revocation of the occupancy permit and/or the
   application of fines and penalties, as established in this Code. In addition, all landscaping is subject
   to periodic inspection.
   1. 19.50.190 – Definitions.
A. Definitions The following definitions shall apply to this ordinance:
   1. “Active Recreation Area” means an area that is dedicated to active play where turf grass may be
        used as the playing surface. Examples of active recreation areas include sports fields, play areas,
        and other similar uses.

Page 220 of 262
   2. “Bubbler” means an irrigation head that delivers water to the root zone by “flooding” the
       planted area, usually measured in gallons per minute. Bubblers exhibit a trickle, umbrella or
       short stream pattern.
   3. “Check Valve” means a device used in sprinkler heads or pipe to prevent water from draining
       out of the pipe through gravity flow.
   4. “Controller” means a device used in irrigation systems to automatically control when and how
       long sprinklers or drip systems operate.
   5. “Drip Emitter” means drip irrigation fittings that deliver water slowly at the root zone of the
       plant, usually measured in gallons per hour.
   6. “Grading Plan” means a plan that shows all finish grades, spot elevations, drainage as necessary
       and existing and new contours with the developed landscaped area.
   7. “Ground Cover” means material planted in such a way as to form a continuous cover over the
       ground that can be maintained at a height not more than twelve (12) inches.
   8. “Hardscape” means patios, decks and paths. Does not include driveways and sidewalks.
   9. “Irrigation Plan” means a plan showing the components of the irrigation system with water
       meter size, backflow prevention, precipitation rates, flow rate and operating pressure for each
       irrigation circuit, and identification of all irrigation equipment.
   10. “Landscape Architect” means a person who holds a professional license to practice landscape
       architecture in the state of Utah. Per State Code, licensed landscape architects, licensed
       architects, licensed land surveyors, and licensed engineers can professionally stamp plans that
       fall under the practice of landscape architecture. This includes commercial landscape and
       irrigation plans. Each municipality has the authority to require that only a licensed landscape
       architect can stamp plans that fall under the practice of landscape architecture.
   11. “Landscape Designer” means a person who may or may not hold professional certificates for
       landscape design/architecture and cannot legally create commercial landscape plans. Landscape
       Designers generally focus on residential design and horticultural needs of home landscapes.
   12. “Landscape Documentation Package” means the preparation of a graphic and written criteria,
       specifications, and detailed plans to arrange and modify the effects of natural features such as
       plantings, ground and water forms, circulation, walks and other features to comply with the
       provisions of this ordinance. The Landscape Documentation Package shall include a project data
       sheet, a Site Plan, a Planting Plan, an Irrigation Plan, Construction Details, and a Grading Plan.
   13. “Landscape Zone” means a portion of the landscaped area having plants with similar water
       needs, areas with similar microclimate (i.e., slope, exposure, wind, etc.) and soil conditions, and
       areas that will be similarly irrigated. A landscape zone can be served by one irrigation valve, or a
       set of valves with the same schedule.
   14. “Landscaping” means any combination of living plants, such as trees, shrubs, vines, ground
       covers, annuals, perennials, ornamental grass, or seeding; natural features such as rock, stone,
       or bark chips; and structural features, including but not limited to, fountains, reflecting pools,
       outdoor art work, screen walls, fences or benches.
   15. “Localscapes®” means a locally adaptable and environmentally sustainable urban landscape
       style that requires less irrigation than traditional Utah landscapes (see www.Localscapes.com).
   16. “Mulch” means any material such as rock, bark, wood chips or other materials left loose and
       applied to the soil.



Page 221 of 262
   17. “Park Strip” means a typically narrow landscaped area located between the back-of-curb and
       sidewalk.
   18. “Planting Plan” means a plan that clearly and accurately identifies the type, size, and locations
       for new and existing trees, shrubs, planting beds, ground covers, turf areas, driveways,
       sidewalks, hardscape features, and fences.
   19. “Pop-up Spray Head” means a sprinkler head that sprays water through a nozzle in a fixed
       pattern with no rotation.
   20. “Precipitation Rate” means the depth of water applied to a given area, usually measured in
       inches per hour.
   21. “Pressure Regulating Valve” means a valve installed in an irrigation mainline that reduces a
       higher supply pressure at the inlet down to a regulated lower pressure at the outlet.
   22. “Pressure Compensating” means a drip irrigation system that compensates for fluctuating water
       pressure by only allowing a fixed volume of water through drip emitters.
   23. “Rotor Spray Head” means a sprinkler head that distributes water through a nozzle by the
       rotation of a gear or mechanical rotor.
   24. “Runoff” means irrigation water that is not absorbed by the soil or landscape area to which it is
       applied, and which flows onto other areas.
   25. “Spray Sprinkler” means an irrigation head that sprays water through a nozzle.
   26. “Stream Sprinkler” means an irrigation head that projects water through a gear rotor in single or
       multiple streams.
   27. “Turf” means a surface layer of earth containing mowed grass with its roots.
   28. “Water-Conserving Plant” means a plant that can generally survive with available rainfall once
       established although supplemental irrigation may be needed or desirable during spring and
       summer months.




Page 222 of 262
                                      Chapter 19.52 Signs
19.52.010 – Purpose of Provisions.
This Chapter is provided to achieve the purposes of the General Plan and all other Municipal Land Use
Ordinances, and to achieve the following additional purposes:
A. To provide for the identification of businesses, sites and buildings;
B. To provide a convenient method of public communication without unnecessary clutter;
C. To eliminate signs and displays that create potential hazards to motorists, pedestrians, or property;
D. To avoid confusion of allowed signs with required traffic signs and other regulatory and public safety
   signs;
E. To minimize any adverse effects of signs and associated lighting on adjacent properties;
F. To encourage signs that promote equity, diversity, and inclusion, including the provision of multi-
   lingual signs; and
G. To ensure compliance with constitutional protected First Amendment Rights.
19.52.020 – Sign Plan Required.
A. Application Requirements. When a land use application on a parcel of ground is submitted to
   Planning and Development Services, the application shall be accompanied by a complete
   comprehensive sign plan that includes the following:
   1. Name of organization and location;
   2. Contact person;
   3. Address and phone number for contact person;
   4. Description of the activities occurring on the site where the sign will be installed;
   5. Description of any existing signage that will remain on the site;
   6. Identification of the type of sign/signs to be erected by the applicant;
   7. Site plan depicting the locations of proposed signage and existing remaining signage;
   8. Scale drawings of the proposed signage; and
   9. A written description explaining the drawing of the proposed signage, including a detailed
       description of materials, colors, and letter height, type and style. A comprehensive sign plan
       shall also include conceptual renderings of each sign.
   10. A comprehensive sign plan shall also include conceptual renderings of each sign.
B. Process. The sign plan shall be reviewed by the land use authority under the same process,
   permitted or conditional, as the land use application.
   1. The Director or Designee is the land use authority for all permitted uses, including sign plans
       associated with a permitted use.
   2. The Planning Commission is the land use authority for all conditional uses, including sign plans
       associated with a conditional use.
C. Applicants seeking to add a new sign on a property or enlarge or alter an existing sign are not
   required to submit a new sign plan, but are required to obtain a sign and building permit as
   described in Section19.52.030.
19.52.030 – Sign and Building Permit Required.
A. No new or existing sign may be erected, enlarged, re-located, or structurally altered without first
   obtaining a sign permit, and for any permanent sign, a building permit.


Page 223 of 262
   1. Changes to Sign Face or Copy. Unless an enlargement, relocation, or structural alteration is
       involved, a permit is not required for a change to sign face or copy.
   2. Requirements for Non-Permanent Signs. A sign permit is required for limited duration signs but
       is not required for temporary or portable signs.
   3. Nonetheless, temporary and portable signs shall include a signature in indelible ink on the lower
       right-hand corner, stating:
       a. Contact information for the sign’s owner; and
       b. The date the temporary sign was erected.
B. A nonconforming sign may not be reconstructed, raised, moved, placed, altered, extended, or
   enlarged unless the sign is changed so as to conform to all provisions of this Title.
   1. Alterations do not include changing the text or copy of electronic message centers, off-premises
       advertising signs, theater signs, outdoor bulletins, or other similar signs which are designed to
       accommodate changeable copy.
   2. Exception for LED Retrofits. Nonconforming signs that update fluorescent lighting to LED lighting
       may do so without coming into compliance with other provisions of this Chapter; however, a
       building permit is required for the retrofit.
19.52.040 – Enforcement.
A. Any sign determined to be a hazard to the public health or safety, or determined to be a nuisance
   because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, or be a Land Use Ordinance or Building Code
   violation shall be remedied and corrected upon written notice by the Director or Designee.
   1. Any sign not remedied or corrected within the timeframe specified on the written notice by the
        Director or Designee shall be subject to removal by the Municipality, or subject to other
        remedies available to the Municipality under the law.
        a. The Director or Designee may grant an extension to the specified timeline before removing
            the sign if good cause exists.
        b. If a sign poses an immediate and significant hazard to public safety, the Director or Designee
            may authorize the immediate removal of such sign.
B. The municipality or the property owner may confiscate non-permanent signs installed in violation of
   this Chapter. Neither the municipality nor the property owner is responsible for notifying sign
   owners of the confiscation of an illegal non-permanent sign.
C. Where other ordinances are in conflict with the provisions of this Chapter, the most restrictive
   ordinance shall apply.
19.52.050 – Exempt Signs.
The following signs shall be allowed without a sign permit and shall not be included in the determination
of the type, number, or area of permanent signs allowed within a zoning district, provided such signs
comply with the regulations in this section, if any.
A. Official traffic signs.
B. Government/regulatory signs.
C. Signs inside a building, or other enclosed facility, which are not meant to be viewed from the outside
   and are located greater than three (3) feet from the window.
D. Holiday and seasonal decorations, provided that decorations are maintained in attractive condition
   and do not constitute a fire hazard. Holiday decorations may be erected no sooner than forty-five


Page 224 of 262
   (45) days before the holiday and shall be removed no later than thirty (30) days after the date of the
   applicable holiday.
E. Personal expression signs of any sign type, including flags, provided that they do not exceed six (6)
   sq. ft. in area per side and are not illuminated.
F. Address signs. Up to two (2) signs stating address, number and/or name of occupants of the
   premises and do not include any commercial advertising or other identification.
   1. Residential districts. Signs not to exceed three (3) sq. ft. in area.
   2. Non-residential districts. Signs not to exceed five (5) sq. ft. in area.
G. Public signs. Signs erected or required by government agencies or utilities, including traffic, utility,
   safety, railroad crossing, and identification or directional signs for public facilities.
H. Signs or emblems of a religious, civil, philanthropic, historical or educational organization that do
   not exceed four (4) sq. ft. in area.
I. Driveway Signs. One (1) sign per driveway entrance, not to exceed two (2) sq. ft. in area.
J. Security and warning signs. These limitations shall not apply to the posting of conventional “no
   trespassing” signs in accordance with state law.
   1. Residential Zones. Signs not to exceed two square feet (2 sq.ft.) in area.
   2. Non-residential Zones. Maximum of one (1) large sign per property, not to exceed five square
        feet (5 sq. ft.) in area. All other posted security and warning signs may not exceed two square
        feet (2 sq. ft.) in area.
K. Flags.
   1. Location. Flags and flagpoles shall not be located within any right-of-way.
   2. Height. Flags and flagpoles shall have a maximum height of thirty-five feet (35 ft).
   3. Number. No more than four (4) flags per lot in residential zones, no more than six (6) flags per
        lot in all other zones.
   4. Size. Maximum flag size is thirty-five square feet (35 sq.ft.) in residential zones; there is no
        maximum size in non-residential zones.
   5. Flags up to six square feet (6 sq.ft.) in area are considered personal expression signs and are
        regulated in accordance with Subsection 19.52.050(E).
L. Legal notices.
M. Memorial signs or historical identification signs erected by the Municipality or other State or Federal
   Agencies, including plaque signs up to three square feet (3 sq.ft.) in area.
N. Signs which are a permanent architectural feature of a building or structure, existing at the time of
   adoption of this ordinance.
O. Incidental signs, including incidental window signs.
P. Artwork and Murals provided that:
   1. The property owner receives written permission from the Director or Designee to install the
        mural or artwork;
   2. The installation contains no electrical or mechanical components or changing images;
   3. The installation does not cause damage to any building or site, especially any historically
        designated building or site;
   4. The primer and paint used if the mural or artwork is directly painted on a wall shall not be a
        vapor barrier; moisture shall be allowed to escape through the surface of the mural;
   5. No more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the artwork or mural may contain copy;



Page 225 of 262
   6. The painted artwork or mural is maintained in good condition and repaired in the case of
       vandalism or accidental destruction; and
   7. The property owner submits an image of, description of, and the location of the finished mural
       to Planning and Development Services for inclusion in public maps advertising local artwork and
       points of interest.
Q. Temporary Signs. Temporary signs do not require a permit, as described in Section 19.52.030.
   However, temporary signs shall follow all standards outlined in this Chapter, including those found
   in Table 19.52.070.
19.52.060 – Prohibited Signs.
Sign types not specifically allowed or exempt as set forth within this Chapter are prohibited. In addition,
the following signs are explicitly prohibited in the Municipality:
A. All signs in violation of any provision of this Ordinance, including all signs erected, enlarged, or
   structurally altered without receiving the necessary approval(s).
B. All signs in violation of any requirements or conditions of approval including all temporary signs
   established for longer than thirty (30) calendar days, or limited duration signs established for more
   than ninety (90) days.
   1. Established time periods for temporary and limited duration signs may be extended by the
        Director or Designee if the Director or Designee finds that a longer duration is needed in order
        to fulfill the purposes of the temporary or limited duration sign.
C. Any new off-premise signs designed or intended to direct attention to a business, product, or service
   that is not sold, offered, or existing on the property where the sign is located, including all
   billboards.
   1. Subject to State Code, the Municipality may only require termination of an existing billboard in
        the Municipality and its associated rights through:
            (1) Gift;
            (2) Purchase;
            (3) Agreement;
            (4) Exchange; or
            (5) Eminent Domain.
D. Signs that are abandoned, dilapidated, or advertise businesses that no longer carry a business
   license or exist within the Municipality (see Section 19.52.120).
E. Signs located within a clear view area.
F. Snipe signs. Signs shall only be attached to utility poles in conformance with state and utility
   regulations and the requirements of this Chapter. Signs attached to any fences, utility poles, trees,
   shrubs, or other natural objects are prohibited, unless specifically provided for by law including no
   trespassing and no hunting.
G. Vehicular signs. This regulation does not include the use of business logos, identification or
   advertising on vehicles primarily and actively used for business purposes and/or personal
   transportation.
H. Mechanical movement signs, including revolving signs.
I. Pennant strings and streamers.
J. Animated signs, flashing signs, or signs that scroll or flash text or graphics.



Page 226 of 262
K. Inflatable devices or balloon signs, with the exception of balloons used in temporary, non-
   commercial situations.
L. Any signs that imitate, resemble, interfere with, or obstruct official traffic or warning lights, signs,
   devices, or signals.
M. Signs which prevent free ingress or egress from any door, window, fire escape, or that prevent free
   access from one part of a roof to any other part. No sign other than a safety sign shall be attached to
   a standpipe or fire escape.
N. Signs which emit smoke, visible vapors, particulate matter, sound, odor or contain open flames.
O. Reflective signs or signs containing mirrors.
P. Signs incorporating beacon or festoon lighting.
Q. Any banner or sign of any type suspended across a public street, without the permission of the
   owner of the property and road.
R. Roof signs.
S. Signs erected without the permission of the property owner, with the exception of those authorized
   or required by local, state, or federal government.
T. Signs that exhibit statements, words, or pictures of obscene or pornographic subjects as defined by
   Utah State Code.
19.52.070 – Allowed Signs.
The signs listed in Table 19.52.070 are allowed, subject to the specified standards. Additional standards
may apply as indicated by superscript in the table, and as articulated following the Table.
 Table 19.52.070: Allowed Signs and Associated Standards.
                    Zones            Location /                                               Number
 Sign Type                                               Dimensions
                    Permitted        Setback                                                  Permitted
 Permanent
 PoleA              All Zones        Shall be set back   In C-1 Zones:                        At least one
                    except mixed-    no more than                                             sign per
 Pole signs shall                                        Max Height: 25 ft.
                    use zones and    five feet (5 ft.)                                        frontage on
 only be
                    any zone that    from property       Max Area: 48 sq.ft., plus 1 sq.ft.   a public
 permitted in
                    prohibits        lines.              for every 4 ft. of public street     street , and
 association
                    Shopping                             frontage over 30 ft., not to         one
 with a
                    Centers.                             exceed 128 sq.ft.                    additional
 Shopping
                                                         In C-2 Zones:                        sign on any
 Center Use as
                                                                                              frontage
 defined in                                              Max Height: 30 ft.                   over 300 ft
 Chapter 19.04
                                                         Max Area: 48 sq.ft., plus 1 sq.ft.   in length.
 Definitions.]
                                                         for every 10 ft. of public street    Signs shall
                                                         frontage over 30 ft., not to         be spaced at
                                                         exceed 256 sq.ft.                    least 100ft.
                                                                                              apart.




Page 227 of 262
 Monument A B E   All Zones      In single-family     Max Height: 6 ft.                    In residential
                  except for     residential          Max Area: 36 sq. ft.                 zones:
                  Forestry and   zones:
                                                                                           One sign per
                  Recreation                          In multi-family residential zones:
                                 Shall be set back                                         street
                  (FR) and                            Max Height: 8 ft.
                                 at least six feet                                         frontage.
                  Mixed-Use                           Max Area: 64 sq. ft.
                                 (6 ft.) from
                  Zones.                                                                   In non-
                                 property lines.
                                                                                           residential
                                                      In mixed-use zones and
                                 In all other                                              zones:
                                                      commercial zones:
                                 zones:
                                                      Max Height: 12 ft.                   One sign per
                                 Shall be set back    Max Area: 100 sq. ft.                300 ft. of
                                 at least two feet                                         street
                                 (2 ft.) from                                              frontage.
                                                      In all other zones:
                                 property lines.
                                                      Max Height: 7 ft
                                                      Max Area: 56 sq. ft.
 Wall or Flat     All Zones      Wall or flat signs   In commercial zones:
                                 shall only be
                                                      In total, wall signs may not exceed 15% of the
                                 permitted in
                                                      wall area.
                                 association with
                                 a licensed           In all other zones:
                                 business             In total, wall signs may not exceed 5% of the wall
                                 conducted on         area.
                                 the premises
                                 and may not be       No portion of a wall sign shall be mounted or
                                 used to identify     painted on less than eight (8) feet above the
                                 home                 finished grade or extend out more than twelve
                                 occupations.         (12) inches from the building wall on which it is
                                                      affixed.
 Projecting /     All Zones      Shall be located     No portion of a projecting sign      Maximum of
 Blade                           on the façade,       shall project more than 4 ft. from   3 projecting
                                 at least 2 ft.       the face of the building; and        / blade signs
                                 away from a                                               per use, with
                                                      The outermost portion of the
                                 shared wall with                                          no more
                                                      projecting sign shall project no
                                 an adjoining use                                          than 1 sign
                                                      closer than 5 ft. from a curbline
                                 or building.                                              per building
                                                      of a public street.
                                                                                           face.

                                                      The lowest edge of a projecting
                                                      sign shall be at least 8 ft. above
                                                      the finished grade.




Page 228 of 262
 Awning C         All Zones     Shall be            The lowest edge of the canopy or      Maximum of
                                centered within     awning shall be at least eight feet   3 awning
                                or over             (8 ft.) above the finished grade;     signs per
                                architectural                                             use, with no
                                                    The awning or canopy may no
                                elements such                                             more than 1
                                                    project more than six feet (6 ft.)
                                as windows or                                             awning sign
                                                    from the building;
                                doors.                                                    per building
                                                    A maximum of 25% of the wall          face.
                                Awning signs
                                                    area may be covered with an
                                shall only be
                                                    awning; and
                                permitted in
                                association with    A maximum of 50% of the awning
                                a licensed          may be covered with graphics.
                                business
                                conducted on
                                the premises
                                and may not be
                                used to identify
                                home
                                occupations.
 Window E         All Zones     NA                  In residential zones:                 Maximum of
                                                                                          3 window
                                                    The maximum sign area per use
                                                                                          signs per
                                                    is 8 sq.ft.
                                                                                          use, with no
                                                    In all other zones:                   more than 1
                                                    The maximum sign area per use         window sign
                                                    is 16 sq.ft.                          per building
                                                                                          face.

 Marquee          All non-      Shall be located    The lowest edge of the marquee        1 per public
                  Residential   only above the      sign shall be at least 10 ft. above   entrance
                  Zones         principle public    the finished grade;
                                entrance of a
                                                    The sign may not exceed the
                                building facing a
                                                    width of the entrance it serves,
                                public street or
                                                    plus 2 ft on each side thereof;
                                parking lot.
                                                    and
                                                    No marquee shall extend closer
                                                    to the curb than 3 ft.




Page 229 of 262
                                       Temporary Non-Permanent
  All non-permanent signs shall be made of durable materials and shall be well maintained. Illumination
                                of any non-permanent sign is prohibited.
 Limited                                               In non-residential zones:           1 per parcel
 Duration                                              Max Area: 32 sq.ft.                 of ground,
                                    If 2 limited       Max Height: 8 ft.                   plus 1
                                    duration signs                                         additional
                                    are allowed, the   In residential zones:               sign if the
                                    signs shall have   Max Area: 16 sq.ft.                 parcel
                                    a minimum of       Max Height: 6 ft.                   exceeds 5
                                    200 ft. spacing                                        acres or has
                                    between them.                                          at least 400
                                                                                           ft. of street
                                                                                           frontage.
 Portable                           May not be         Max Area: 9 sq.ft.                  1 per
                                    placed in any                                          business
                                                       Max Height: 3 ft.
                      All Zones     manner that
 Temporary                          blocks the flow    In non-residential zones:           Only one
                                    of pedestrian      Max Area: 32 sq.ft. for banners,    banner is
                                    traffic or         16 sq.ft. for all other temporary   allowed per
                                    otherwise          signs                               property.
                                    threatens the      Max Height: 24 ft. for hanging      For other
                                    public health,     banner, 6 ft. for freestanding      temporary
                                    safety, or         banner, 8 ft. for all other types   sign types, 2
                                    welfare.                                               signs are
                                                       In residential zones:               allowed per
                                                       Max Area: 32 sq.ft. for banners,    property.
                                                       16 sq.ft. for all other temporary
                                                       signs
                                                       Max Height: 24 ft for hanging
                                                       banner, 6 ft. for freestanding
                                                       banner, 6 ft. for all other types


A. Property abutting a freeway may have one sign located within thirty feet (30’). of the freeway, not
   to exceed 600 sq. ft. in area and the height of such sign shall not exceed sixty square feet (60’).
B. If a pole sign is used, a monument sign may not be used.
C. Any ground-floor awning projecting into the right-of-way must be retractable.
D. Incidental window signs displaying pertinent business information such as the business’ hours of
   operation and credit cards accepted, shall be excluded from area calculations for window signs.
E. Monument signs are prohibited on single-family properties but may be used in common areas to
   direct entry to a subdivision or identify a clubhouse or other amenity.




Page 230 of 262
F. Signs in Association with Drive-Thru Facility. In addition to any other signs permitted in Section
   19.52.070, Drive-Thru Facilities are allowed one on-site permanent sign per drive-thru lane, subject
   to the following requirements:
   1. Setback. The sign shall be located at least twenty feet (20’) from any property line.
   2. Proximity to Drive-Thru Lane. The sign may not be located more than five feet (5’) from the
       drive-thru lane.
   3. Height. The maximum sign height is eight feet (8’).
   4. Area. The maximum sign area is forty-eight square feet (48 sq. ft.).
   5. Approval Process. All signs in association with a Drive-Thru Facility shall be identified and
       reviewed as part of an approved sign plan for the Drive-Thru Use.
   6. Signs in association with a drive-thru facility are subject to all other standards of this Chapter.
19.52.080 – Standards of General Applicability.
All signs, including those exempt from permitting processes, shall also comply with the following
standards:
A. Size Computation. When more than one use occupies a lot, the frontage may be used to calculate
   the sign size for one total pole or projecting sign, not for each use. The total may then be divided
   between the uses.
B. Height of Pole Signs. The height of pole signs, except as otherwise specified in this Chapter, shall be
   measured from the grade at the property line of the yard in which the sign is located to the top of
   the sign.
C. Imprint of Ownership Required. The imprint of the sign owner and sign erector of all signs shall be in
   plain and public view.
D. Change of Copy. Sign text, statement, symbol, picture, graphics, and message may be changed and
   modified by the owner and do not constitute a structural sign alteration provided such changes do
   not constitute a public hazard or nuisance and are not of an obscene nature.
E. Right-of-Way Clearance. No sign or portion thereof may be permitted within three (3) feet any road
   or street right-of-way or utility easement and all signs must maintain necessary clearances from
   underground or overhead power transmission lines, as required by the electrical power provider.
F. Fire Protection Clearance. No sign or portion thereof may interfere with the use of fire protection
   appliances, including hydrants, standpipes, automatic fire sprinkler connections, and similar fire
   protection and suppression equipment. No sign or sign structure shall obstruct any fire lane.
G. Signs Prohibited from Resembling Public Safety Devices. No sign or portion thereof may imitate or
   resemble a public safety sign or device including any lights, emblems, or text that resembles public
   warning or public safety lights or signs.
H. Clear View and Traffic Flow Provisions. No sign or portion thereof may occupy any clear view area,
   and no sign may create any traffic or pedestrian flow hazard.
I. Signs on Public Property. No sign may be located on publicly owned land or inside street rights-of-
   way except signs erected by permission of an authorized public agency.
J. Design. All signs shall use materials and colors that are harmonious with the adjacent building(s).




Page 231 of 262
19.52.090 – Design Standards Specific to Zones or Historic Districts.
Additional signage design guidelines may exist for mixed-use zones, historic districts, and special land
use centers. The applicant shall refer to and comply with the municipality’s other applicable adopted
plans and ordinances.
19.52.100 – Sign Lighting Requirements.
The following sign lighting requirements are provided to achieve the purposes of this Chapter and
Ordinance:
A. Externally illuminated signs are permitted as follows:
   1. All externally lit signs shall be illuminated with steady, fully shielded light sources aimed directly
        onto the sign. Light bulbs or lighting tubes used for illuminating a sign shall not be visible from
        any location.
B. The following internally illuminated signs are permitted:
   1. Individual back-lit letters that are silhouetted against an illuminated wall, or halo-illuminated.
   2. Individual letters with translucent faces, containing soft lighting elements inside each letter.
   3. Metal-faced box signs with cutout letters and soft-glow fluorescent tubes.
C. Lighting.
   1. No lighting or illumination associated with any sign shall constitute a safety hazard or create a
        nuisance to surrounding properties.
   2. The intensity of lighting shall not exceed that necessary to illuminate a sign from the closest
        adjacent public right-of-way. The nighttime illuminance of a sign may not increase ambient
        lighting conditions by more than three-tenths (0.3) foot candles when measured perpendicular
        to the sign face at a distance determined by the following formula:
        a. Measurement Distance (in feet) = the square root of [Area of electronic message center face
             in square feet x 100]
        b. An ambient light measurement shall be taken using a foot candle meter at the required
             distance with the sign lighting turned off. Immediately following the ambient light
             measurement taken in the manner required by this subsection, an operating light
             measurement shall be taken with the sign lights fully turned on.
   3. No light source shall be directed toward any adjacent property.
   4. All light sources shall be fully shielded or hooded.
D. If the Director or Designee or adjacent property owners allege that an illuminated sign violates any
   portion of this Section, the complainant may request a photometric assessment to measure the
   amount of light and ascertain the validity of the alleged violation. If photometric measuring devices
   are available through the Municipality, the Municipality shall perform the assessment. If the
   Municipality has no measuring devices, the complainant may provide an independent assessment
   through a qualified professional to the Director or Designee. If such light is determined to be in
   violation, the owner of the light shall take appropriate, corrective action as directed.
19.52.110 – Electronic Message Center Requirements.
A. An electronic message center (EMC) shall only display static images with instant or fade-in fade-out
   transitions. An electronic message center may not display scrolling text, video images, or scintillating
   images. Upward illumination in such displays is not allowed, to avoid light pollution. The light source
   of electronic message centers may not allow light trespass onto adjacent residential properties.

Page 232 of 262
B. Display Duration. The minimum image display duration is five (5) seconds.
C. Transition Duration. The transition from one static image to another shall be instant or shall fade in
   and fade out. The maximum image transition duration shall be two (2) seconds.
D. Ambient Light. All electronic message centers shall be equipped with a sensor or other
   programmable device that automatically determines the ambient illumination and must be
   programmed to automatically dim according to ambient light conditions. The nighttime illuminance
   of an electronic message center may not increase ambient lighting conditions by more than three-
   tenths (0.3) foot candles when measured perpendicular to the electronic message center face at a
   distance determined by the following formula:
   1. Measurement Distance (in feet) = the square root of [Area of electronic message center face in
       square feet x 100]
   2. An ambient light measurement shall be taken using a foot candle meter at the required distance
       with the sign turned off to a black screen. Immediately following the ambient light
       measurement taken in the manner required by this subsection, an operating light measurement
       shall be taken with the sign turned on to a full white screen.
E. Electronic Message Center Allowable Type and Size by Zone. Table 19.52.110 shows which type of
   signs are permitted to include an electronic message center in which zones. The Table also sets the
   maximum size of EMCs per zone and sign type.
   1. All signs containing an EMC shall also include a non-digital identifier that covers at least twenty-
       five percent (25%) of the total sign area.
 Table 19.52.110: Specifications for Electronic Message Centers
                  Sign Types                                                     Allowable EMC Size as
 Zone             Permitted to        Additional Conditions                      a Percentage of Total
                  Include EMC                                                    Allowable Sign Size
                  Monument            Permitted
    C-1, C-2,
                                      May not be located within 100' of an                50%
   Mixed-Use      Pole*
                                      RMH, R-1, R-2, R-4, or R-M Zone.

        PR        Monument            Permitted                                           50%
*Pole signs shall only be permitted in association with a Shopping Center use, as defined in Chapter
19.04: Definitions.
19.52.120 – Unused and Abandoned Signs.
A. Signs relating to a product no longer available for purchase, or to a business which has closed or
   moved, shall be removed or the advertising copy removed within thirty (30) days of such
   unavailability. Empty signs frames shall either be replaced with new signs for an active business or
   removed within six (6) months from the time the sign area becomes vacant.
B. Vacant portions of signs where panels remain empty for over six (6) months shall be removed or
   brought into compliance by the property owner. If removal does not occur voluntarily, after
   appropriate notice is given, the entire sign and support structure shall be taken down by the owner
   or may be removed by the Municipality and all costs incurred shall be the responsibility of the
   property owner.


Page 233 of 262
                                 Chapter 19.54 (Reserved)
                   Chapter 19.56 Floodplain Hazard Regulations
19.56.010 – Authorization and Findings
A. Statutory Authorization.
   1. The Legislature of the State of Utah has in Utah Code Unannotated 10-3-701 delegated the
       responsibility to local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to promote the public
       health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the Municipal Council of White
       City does ordain as follows:
   2. The White City Metro Township elects to comply with the requirements of the National Flood
       Insurance Act of 1968 (P.L. 90-488, as amended). The National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) is
       a voluntary program administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), a
       component of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, and the White City Metro Township's
       community officials have elected to join the program, participate, and enforce this Flood
       Damage Prevention Ordinance and the requirements and regulations of the NFIP. The NFIP,
       established in the aforesaid act, provides that areas of the White City Metro Township having a
       special flood hazard be identified by FEMA, and that floodplain management measures be
       applied in such flood hazard areas. Furthermore, the White City Metro Township may elect to
       administer the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance to areas not identified as Special Flood
       Hazard Areas (SFHAs) by FEMA on the community's effective Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM),
       if the community has documentation to support that there is an inherent risk of flooding in such
       areas.
B. Findings of Fact.
   1. The flood hazard areas of White City are subject to periodic inundation which results in loss of
       life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental
       services, and extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which
       adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   2. These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains which
       cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazards areas by
       uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
       floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
   3. These potential flood losses are caused by:
       a. The cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains that are known to cause increases in
            flood heights and velocities;
       b. The occupancy of flood hazard areas by structures vulnerable to floods because they are
            inadequately elevated or otherwise unprotected from flood damages; and
       c. Uses deemed unsuitable for floodplain areas or that do not account for the increased flood
            risk.




Page 234 of 262
19.56.020 – Purpose of Provisions
A. It is the purpose of this Chapter to promote the public health, safety and general welfare of the
   community and to minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by
   provisions designed to:
   1. Protect human life and health;
   2. Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   3. Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with flooding and generally
         undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   4. Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   5. Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and gas mains, electric,
         telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in floodplains;
   6. Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and development of flood-prone
         areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood blight areas; and
   7. Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood area and can make their
         decisions based on full information.
19.56.030 - Methods of Reducing Flood Losses.
In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods and provisions for:
A. Restricting or prohibiting land uses that are dangerous to health, safety, or property in times of
   flooding, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or velocities;
B. Requiring that land uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that serve such uses, be protected
   against flood damage at the time of initial construction;
C. Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and natural protective barriers,
   which are involved in the accommodation of flood waters;
D. Controlling filling, grading, dredging and other developments that may increase flood damage; and
E. Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers that will unnaturally divert floodwaters or
   may increase flood hazards to other lands.
19.56.040 – General Provisions.
A. Lands to which this chapter applies. This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazards
   within the jurisdiction of White City.
B. Basis for Establishing the Areas of Special Flood Hazard. The areas of special flood hazard identified
   by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in a scientific and engineering report entitled, "The
   Flood Insurance Study for Salt Lake County and Incorporated Communities," dated November 19,
   2021, with accompanying flood insurance rate maps (FIRMs), and any revisions thereto are hereby
   automatically adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
C. Establishment of Development Permit. A Floodplain Development Permit shall be required to ensure
   conformance with the provisions of this Chapter.
D. Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use changed
   without full compliance with the terms of this Chapter and other applicable regulations.
E. Abrogation and Greater Restrictions. This Chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
   existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this Chapter and another
   ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
   stringent restrictions shall prevail.

Page 235 of 262
F. Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this Chapter, all provisions shall be:
   1. Considered as minimum requirements;
   2. Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   3. Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under State statutes.
G. Warning and Disclaimer of Liability.
   1. The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory
       purposes and is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and will
       occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes.
   2. This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses
       permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not
       create liability on the part of the municipal Township, any officer or employee thereof, or the
       Federal Emergency Management Agency, for any flood damages that result from reliance on
       this chapter, or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
19.56.050 – Administration.
A. Floodplain Administrator Appointed. The Director of Planning and Development Services is hereby
   appointed the Floodplain Administrator to administer and implement the provisions of this Chapter
   and other appropriate sections of 44 CFR (National Flood Insurance Program Regulations) pertaining
   to floodplain management.
B. Duties and Responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator. Duties and responsibilities of the
   Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
   1. Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to the provisions of this
        Chapter.
   2. Review permit application to determine whether proposed building site, including the
        placement of manufactured homes, will be reasonably safe from flooding.
   3. Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits required by adoption of this
        Chapter.
   4. Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have been
        obtained from those Federal, State or local governmental agencies (including Section 404 of the
        Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334) from which prior
        approval is required.
   5. Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special
        flood hazards (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary
        and actual field conditions) the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary
        interpretation.
   6. Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State Coordinating Agency which is
        Utah Division of Emergency Management, State Floodplain Manager, prior to any alteration
        or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal
        Emergency Management Agency.
   7. Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated portion of any
        watercourse is maintained.
   8. When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance with Article 3, Section B,
        the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation




Page 236 of 262
       data and floodway data available from a Federal, State or other source, in order to administer
       the provisions of Article 5.
   9. When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the Floodplain Administrator must
       require that no new construction, substantial improvements, or other development (including
       fill) shall be permitted within Zones A1-30 and AE on the community's FIRM, unless it is
       demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all
       other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
       base flood more than one foot at any point within the community.
C. Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, Section 65.12, of the National Flood Insurance Program
   regulations, a community may approve certain development in Zones A1-30, AE, AH, on the
   community's FIRM which increases the water surface elevation of the base flood by more than one
   foot, provided that the community first applies for a conditional FIRM revision through FEMA
   (Conditional Letter of Map Revision).
19.56.060 – Permit Procedures.
A. Application. Application for a Floodplain Development Permit shall be presented to the Floodplain
   Administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may include, but not be limited to, plans in
   duplicate drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape
   alterations, existing and proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and
   the location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard. Additionally, the following
   submittals and information are required:
   1. Plans drawn to scale shoring the location, dimensions, and elevations of proposed landscape
       alterations.
   2. Plans drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions, and elevation of existing and proposed
       structures, including the placement of manufactured homes.
   3. Location of the foregoing in relation to SFHA’s.
   4. Elevation, in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor (including basement and crawlspace)
       of all new and substantially improved structures.
   5. Elevation, in relation to mean sea level, to which any nonresidential structure (if applicable) shall
       be floodproofed.
   6. A certificate from a registered professional engineer that the nonresidential floodproofed
       structure (if applicable) shall meet the floodproofing criteria of this chapter and the NFIP
       Regulations.
   7. Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural drainage will be altered or
       relocated as a result of proposed development.
   8. All other information that may reasonable be required by the Floodplain Administrator.
   9. Reasonable fees in accordance with the adopted fee schedule.
   10. The municipality shall become the owner of all Floodplain Development Permits and shall
       maintain a record of all such information in accordance with this chapter and the NFIP
       Regulations.
B. Approval or Denial. Approval or denial of a Floodplain Development Permit by the Floodplain
   Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this Chapter and the following relevant
   factors:
   1. The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;


Page 237 of 262
    2. The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood damage and the effect of
        such damage on the individual owner;
    3. The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury of others;
    4. The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated development;
    5. The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and emergency vehicles;
    6. The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood conditions including
        maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public utilities and facilities such as sewer,
        gas, electrical and water systems;
    7. The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment transport of the flood waters
        and the effects of wave action, if applicable, expected at the site;
    8. The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where applicable;
    9. The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding or erosion damage, for the
        proposed use; and
    10. The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for that area.
19.56.070 - Variances and Appeal Procedures.
A. The land use hearing officer shall hear and decide all appeals and requests for variances from the
   requirements of this chapter, as provided in Chapter 19.20 of this title, as amended. The following
   conditions shall apply, in addition to the provisions of Chapter 19.20:
   1. Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and substantial improvements to be
       erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
       existing structures constructed below one foot above the base level, providing the land use
       hearing officer has considered all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, and standards
       specified in other sections of this chapter, providing the following items have been considered:
       a. The danger that materials may be swept onto other land to the injury of others;
       b. The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
       c. The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood damage, and the effect of
           such damage on the individual owner:
       d. The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to the community;
       e. The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where applicable;
       f. The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use, which are not subject to
           flooding or erosion damage;
       g. The compatibility of the proposed use with the existing and anticipated development;
       h. The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and floodplain
           management program for that area;
       i. The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and emergency vehicles;
       j. The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment transport of the
           floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable, expected at the site;
       k. The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood conditions, including
           maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and
           water systems, and streets and bridges.
   2. Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or restoration of structures listed
       on the National Register of Historic Places or the State Inventory of Historic Places, without
       regard to the procedures set forth in the remainder of this section.


Page 238 of 262
   3. Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any increase in flood levels
       during the base flood discharge would result.
   4. The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain in perpetuity a record of all variance actions,
       including justification for their issuance, and shall report variances to FEMA and the State
       Coordinating Agency upon issuing a variance.
B. Prerequisites for Granting a Variance.
   1. Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance is the minimum
       necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   2. Variances shall only be issued upon:
       a. A showing of good and sufficient cause;
       b. A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional and undue
            hardship to the applicant; and
       c. A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights,
            additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause
            fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   3. Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written notice that the structure will
       be permitted to be built with a lowest floor elevation below one foot above the base flood
       elevation and that the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased flood
       risk resulting from the reduced lowest floor elevation.
C. Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and substantial improvements and
   for other development necessary for the conduct of a functionally dependent use provided that:
   1. The criteria outlined in subsection 19.56.060.B.1-10 are met, and
   2. The structure or other development is protected by methods that minimize flood damages
       during the base flood and create no additional threats to public safety.
D. The land use hearing officer shall maintain the record of all appeal actions and report any variances
   to the Federal Emergency Management Agency upon request.
19.56.080 – Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction.
A. General Standards. In all areas of special flood hazards, the following standards are required for all
   new construction and substantial improvements:
   1. All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed (or modified) and
      adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure and
      capable of resisting the hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
   2. All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed by methods and
      practices that minimize flood damage;
   3. All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed with materials resistant
      to flood damage;
   4. All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed with electrical, heating,
      ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are
      designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
      components during conditions of flooding.
   5. All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate
      infiltration of flood waters into the system;




Page 239 of 262
   6. New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate
       infiltration of flood waters into the system and discharge from the systems into flood waters;
       and
   7. On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to them or contamination
       from them during flooding.
B. Substantial Improvement and Substantial Damage Determination. For applications for building
   permits to improve buildings and structures, including alterations, movement, enlargement,
   replacement, repair, change of occupancy, additions, rehabilitations, renovations, and any other
   improvement of or work on such buildings and structures, the Floodplain Administrator, shall:
   1. Estimate the market value of the building or structure only (not of land) before the start of
       construction of the proposed work. If the applicant disagrees with the estimated market value,
       the applicant may obtain an appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent
       appraiser. In the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure shall be the market
       value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are made.
   2. Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a damaged building to its pre-
       damaged condition, or the combined costs of improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the
       market value of the building or structure.
   3. Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes substantial improvement or
       repair of substantial damage; the determination requires evaluation of previous permits issued
       for improvements and repairs.
   4. Utilize FEMA’s Substantial Improvement/Substantial Desk Reference when making any
       determination on Substantial Improvement and/or Substantial Damage.
   5. The substantial improvement regulations apply to all of the work that is proposed as the
       improvement, even if multiple permits are issued. Therefore, the determination of the cost of
       the improvement should consider all costs of all phases of the work before issuance of the first
       permit.
   6. Notify the applicant that if it is determined that the work constitutes substantial improvement
       or repair of substantial damage, compliance with the flood regulations of this chapter is
       required.
C. Specific Standards. In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has been
   provided as set forth in this chapter, the following standards are required:
   1. Residential Construction. New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
       structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to 1 foot or more above the
       base flood elevation. A registered professional engineer, or land surveyor shall submit a
       certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this chapter are satisfied.
   2. Nonresidential Construction. New construction and substantial improvement of any
       commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest floor
       (including basement) elevated to 1 foot or more above the base flood elevation or together with
       attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the
       structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with
       structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads
       and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer shall develop and/or review
       structural design, specifications, and plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design
       and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined


Page 240 of 262
      in this subsection. A record of such certification which includes the specific elevation (in relation
      to mean sea level) to which such structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the
      Floodplain Administrator.
   3. Enclosures. New construction and substantial improvements, with fully enclosed areas below
      the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an
      area other than a basement and which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
      equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
      floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered
      professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
      a. A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than one (1) square inch for
           every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be provided.
      b. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1’) above grade.
      c. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other coverings or devices
           provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.
   4. Enclosures below the BFE. Enclosures below the BFE may only be used for building access,
      vehicle parking, and storage. Certification and documentation from a professional, licensed
      engineer is required if the structure’s lowest floor is built below the BFE. Applicant shall enter
      into a maintenance and nonconversion agreement with the municipality that it will maintain the
      improvements outlined in this paragraph and not modify or convert them to uses other than
      approved uses.
   5. Crawlspaces. New construction and substantial improvements built on an at grade crawlspace
      or sub-grade (below grade) crawlspace may be permitted if the development is designed and
      meets or exceeds the standards found in FEMA’s Technical Bulletins 1, 2, and 11, which include
      but are not limited to the following:
      a. The structure must be affixed to a permanent foundation, designed and adequately
           anchored to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
           hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy. Because of
           hydrodynamic loads, crawlspace construction is not allowed in areas with flood velocities
           greater than 5 feet per second unless the design is reviewed by a qualified design
           professional, such as a registered professional engineer.
      b. The crawlspace is an enclosed area below the BFE and, as such, must have flood openings
           that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.
           The bottom of each flood vent opening can be no more than 1 foot above the LAG.
      c. The crawlspace enclosure must have proper flood openings that allow equalization of
           hydrostatic pressure by allowing automatic entry and exit of floodwaters. To achieve this, a
           minimum of 1 square inch of flood opening is required per 1 square foot of the enclosed
           area subject to flooding.
      d. Portions of the building below the BFE must be constructed with materials resistant to flood
           damage. This includes not only the foundation walls of the crawlspace used to elevate the
           building, but also any joists, insulation, piers, or other materials that extend below the BFE.
           Ductwork must either be placed above the BFE or sealed from floodwaters.
      e. Any building utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the BFE or
           designed so that floodwaters cannot enter or accumulate within the system components
           during flood conditions.


Page 241 of 262
        f. The interior grade of a crawlspace below the BFE must not be more than 2 feet below the
           LAG.
       g. The height of the below-grade crawlspace, measured from the lowest interior grade of the
           crawlspace floor to the bottom of the floor joist of the next higher floor cannot exceed 4
           feet at any point.
       h. There must be an adequate drainage system that removes floodwaters from the interior
           area of the crawlspace. The enclosed area should be drained within a reasonable time after
           a flood event.
       i. Note. Buildings with below grade crawlspaces will have higher flood insurance premiums
           than buildings that have preferred crawlspace construction, with interior elevation at or
           above the LAG.
   6. Manufactured Homes.
       a. All manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on a community's FHBM or FIRM shall
           be installed using methods and practices which minimize flood damage. For the purposes of
           this requirement, manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation,
           collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
           use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to
           applicable State and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
       b. Manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved within Zones A1-30, AH, and
           AE on the community's FIRM on sites outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
           in a new manufactured home park or subdivision; in an expansion to an existing
           manufactured home park or subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park or
           subdivision on which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as a result of
           a flood, be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
           manufactured home is elevated to one foot (1’) or more above the base flood elevation and
           be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
           collapse, and lateral movement.
       c. In the A1-30, AH, AO and AE Zones, manufactured homes placed or substantially improved
           in an existing manufactured home park shall be elevated so that the lowest floor is one foot
           (1’) or more above the base flood elevation; or the manufactured home chassis is supported
           by reinforced piers or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no
           less than 36 inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately
           anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
   7. Recreational Vehicles. Recreational vehicles placed on sites within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on
       the community's FIRM either:
       a. Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days and be fully licensed and ready for
           highway use;
       b. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is
           attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no
           permanently attached additions; or
       c. Meet the permit requirements and the elevation and anchoring requirements for
           "manufactured homes" in this section.
D. Standards for Subdivision Proposals.



Page 242 of 262
   1. All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions
       shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   2. All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the placement of manufactured
       home parks and subdivisions shall meet Floodplain Development Permit and other requirements
       of this chapter.
   3. Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals and other proposed
       development that is greater than 50 lots or 5 acres, including the placement of manufactured
       home parks and subdivisions.
   4. All subdivision proposals, including the placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions
       shall, have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located
       and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
E. Standards for Areas of Shallow Flooding (AO/AH Zones). Located within the areas of special flood
   hazard established by this chapter, are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas have
   special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of 1 to 3 feet where a clearly defined
   channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where velocity flow may
   be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow; therefore, the following
   provisions apply:
   1. All new construction and substantial improvements of residential structures have the lowest
       floor (including basement) elevated one foot (1’) or more above the highest adjacent grade at
       least as high as the depth number specified in feet on the community's FIRM (at least two feet if
       no depth number is specified).
   2. All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential structures:
       a. Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated one foot (1’) or more above the highest
            adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet on the community's
            FIRM (at least two (2) feet if no depth number is specified), or;
       b. Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be designed so that below one foot (1’)
            above the base flood level the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable
            to the passage of water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
            hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads of effects of buoyancy.
   3. A registered professional engineer shall submit a certification to the Floodplain Administrator
       that the standards of this subsection are satisfied.
   4. Require within Zones AH or AO adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes, to guide
       flood waters around and away from proposed structures.
F. Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in Section 19.56.040 are areas
   designated as "floodways." Since the floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of
   floodwaters which carry debris, potential projectiles, and erosion potential, the following provisions
   apply:
   1. Designate a regulatory floodway that will not increase the base flood level more than 1 foot.
   2. Encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, placement of
       manufactured homes, and other developments, are prohibited unless it has been demonstrated
       through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering
       practice that the proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within
       the community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.



Page 243 of 262
    3. If subsection A of this section is satisfied, all new construction and substantial improvements
       and placement of manufactured homes shall comply with all applicable flood-hazard reduction
       provisions of Sections 19.56.100 through 19.56.180.
    4. Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, Section 65.12, of the National Flood Insurance
       Regulations, a community may permit encroachments within the adopted regulatory floodway
       that would result in an increase in base flood elevations, provided that the community first
       applies for a conditional FIRM and floodway revision through FEMA.
19.56.090 – Definitions.
A. The following definitions shall apply to terms use in this chapter. Unless specifically defined below,
   words or phrases used in this Chapter shall be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in
   common usage and to give this Chapter its most reasonable application.
   1. “100-Year Flood” means a flood having a recurrence interval that has a 1-percent chance of
       being equaled or exceeded during any given year (1-percent-annual-chance flood). The terms
       “100-hundred-year flood” and “1-percent-annual-chance flood” are synonymous. The term does
       not imply that the flood will necessarily happen once every 100 hundred years. Mandatory flood
       insurance requirements may apply.
   2. “100-Year Floodplain” means the area of land susceptible to being inundated due to the
       occurrence of a 1-percent-annual-chance flood.
   3. “500-Year Flood” means a flood having a recurrence interval that has a 0.2-percent chance of
       being equaled or exceeded during any given year (0.2-percent-annual-chance flood). The term
       does not imply that the flood will necessarily happen once every 500 years and mandatory flood
       insurance requirement generally does not apply.
   4. “500-Year Floodplain” means the area of land susceptible to being inundated due to the
       occurrence of a 0.2-percent-annual-chance flood.
   5. “Accessory Structure” means a structure that is on the same parcel of property as a principal
       structure. Its use is incidental to the use of the principal structure. The ownership of the
       accessory structure is the same owner as of the principal structure. An accessory structure is a
       non-residential structure of low value that is used solely for the parking of vehicles and storage
       of tools, materials, or equipment. No human habitation is allowed within an accessory structure.
   6. “Addition” means any improvement that expands the enclosed footprint or increases the square
       footage of an existing structure. This includes lateral additions added to the side, front, or rear
       of a structure; vertical additions added on top of a structure; and enclosures added underneath
       a structure.
   7. “Alluvial Fan Flooding” means flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or similar
       landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high-velocity flows; active
       processes of erosion, sediment transport, and deposition; and unpredictable flow paths.
   8. “APEX” means a point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow path of the
       major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial fan flooding can occur.
   9. “Appurtenant Structure”—see Accessory Structure.
   10. “Area of Future-Conditions Flood Hazard” means the land area that would be inundated by the
       1-percent-annual-chance (100-year) flood, based on future-conditions hydrology.
   11. “Area of Shallow Flooding” means a designated AO, AH, or VO zone on a community's Flood
       Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a one percent chance or greater annual chance of flooding to


Page 244 of 262
       an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the
       path of flooding is unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
       characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   12. “Area of Special Flood-Related Erosion Hazard” means the land within a community that is most
       likely to be subject to severe flood-related erosion losses. The area may be designated as Zone E
       on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM). After the detailed evaluation of the special flood-
       related erosion hazard area, in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone E may be further
       refined.
   13. “Area of Special Flood Hazard” means the lands in the floodplain within a community subject to
       a one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The area may be designated as
       Zone A on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM). After detailed ratemaking has been
       completed in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone A usually is refined into Zones A, AE,
       AH, AO, A1-99, VO, V1-30, VE or V
   14. “Base Flood” means the flood having a 1-percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
       given year.
   15. “Base Flood Elevation (BFE)” means the water surface elevation of the 1-percent-annual-chance
       flood event. It is the height in relation to mean sea level expected to be reached by the waters
       of the base flood at pertinent points in the floodplains of coastal and riverine areas. It is also the
       elevation shown on the FIRM and found in the accompanying Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for
       Zones A, AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, V1-V30, or VE that indicates the water surface elevation resulting
       from the flood that has a 1-percent chance of equaling or exceeding that level in any given year.
   16. “Basement” means any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground level) on all
       sides. A walkout basement that does not require a step up to grade is not considered a
       basement.
   17. “Best Available Data” means existing flood hazard information adopted by a community and
       reflected on an effective FIRM, FBFM, and/or within an FIS report; or draft or preliminary flood
       hazard information supplied by FEMA or from another source. Other sources may include, but
       are not limited to, state, other federal agencies, or local studies, the more restrictive of which
       would be reasonably used by the community. {If Higher Standard Option elected refer to
       ARTICLE III, SECTION B.1 USE OF BEST AVAILABLE DATA}
   18. “Breakaway Wall” means a wall that is not part of the structural support of the building and is
       intended through its design and construction to collapse under specific lateral loading forces,
       without causing damage to the elevated portion of the building or supporting foundation
       system. Any walls below the lowest floor in a building in a V or VE Zone should give way under
       wind and water loads without causing collapse, displacement, or other damage to the elevated
       portion of the building of the supporting pilings or columns. Breakaway walls apply only to V or
       VE Zones.
   19. “Building” see Structure.
   20. “Channelization” means the artificial creation, enlargement, realignment, or alteration of a
       stream channel’s slope, shape, or alignment. Streambank restoration may be deemed as
       channelization.
   21. “Code of Federal Regulations (CFR)” means the codification of the general and permanent rules
       published in the Federal Register by the executive departments and agencies of the Federal
       Government.


Page 245 of 262
   22. “Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR)” means FEMA's comment on a proposed project
       that would, upon construction, affect the hydrologic and/or hydraulic characteristics of a
       flooding source and thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the
       effective BFEs, and/or the SFHA. The letter does not revise an effective map; it indicates
       whether the project, if built as proposed, would be recognized by FEMA.
   23. “Conditional Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill (CLOMR-F)” means FEMA's comment on a
       proposed structure or property. The letter does not revise an effective map; it indicates whether
       the project, if built as proposed, would be removed from the floodplain.
   24. “Crawlspace” means an under-floor space that has its interior floor area (finished or not) no
       more than 4 feet from the bottom floor joist the next higher floor elevation, designed with
       proper openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures of flood water, and is not used for
       habitation.
   25. “Critical Facility” means a facility or building where even a slight chance of flooding is too great a
       threat. Typical critical facilities include hospitals, fire stations, police stations, schools, storage of
       critical records, assisted living and similar facilities.
   26. “Critical Feature” means an integral and readily identifiable part of a flood protection system,
       without which the flood protection provided by the entire system would be compromised.
   27. “Deed Restriction” means a clause in a deed that limits the future use of the property in some
       respect. Deed restrictions may impose a vast variety of limitations and conditions. For example,
       they may limit the density of buildings, dictate the types of structures that can be erected, or
       prevent buildings from being used for specific purposes or from being used at all.
   28. “Detached Garage” means a building that is used solely for storage of materials or vehicle
       parking for up to four housing occupants. If a detached garage is designed or used for habitation
       or conducting business, or has multiple stories, then the building is not considered a detached
       garage under the NFIP.
   29. “Development” means any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
       including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading,
       paving, demolition, excavation or drilling operations, or storage either temporary or permanent
       of equipment or materials.
   30. “Elevated Building” means a non-basement building (i) built, in the case of a building in Zones
       A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and D, to have the top of the elevated floor, or in the case of
       a building in Zones V1-30, VE, or V, to have the bottom of the lowest horizontal structure
       member of the elevated floor elevated above the ground level by means of pilings, columns
       (posts and piers), or shear walls parallel to the floor of the water and (ii) adequately anchored so
       as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a flood of up to the magnitude of
       the base flood. In the case of Zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and D, "elevated building"
       also includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid foundation perimeter walls with
       openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement of flood waters. In the case of Zones
       V1-30, VE, or V, "elevated building" also includes a building otherwise meeting the definition of
       "elevated building," even though the lower area is enclosed by means of breakaway walls if the
       breakaway walls met the standards of Section 60.3(e)(5) of the National Flood Insurance
       Program regulations.
   31. “Enclosure” means an enclosed walled-in area below the lowest floor of an elevated building.
       Enclosures below the BFE may only be used for building access, vehicle parking, and storage.


Page 246 of 262
   32. “Erosion” means the process of the gradual wearing away of land masses by wind, water, or
       other natural agents.
   33. “Existing Construction” means structures for which the “start of construction” commenced
       before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that
       date. It may also be referred to as Existing Structures.
   34. “Existing Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision” means a manufactured home park or
       subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the
       manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the
       construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
       completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations adopted by the
       community.
   35. “Existing Structures”—see Existing Construction.
   36. “Expansion to an Existing Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision” means the preparation of
       additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufacturing
       homes are to be affixed (including the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and
       either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   37. “FEMA” means the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   38. “FHBM” means Flood Hazard Boundary Map.
   39. “Fill” means the placement of materials, such as dirt, sand, or rock to elevate a structure,
       property, or portion of a property above the natural elevation of the site, regardless of where
       the material was obtained from. The common practice of removing unsuitable material and
       replacing with engineered material is not considered fill if the elevations are returned to the
       existing conditions. Any fill placed or used prior to the area being mapped as a flood hazard area
       is not deemed as fill.
   40. “Flood or Flooding” means:
       a. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land
            areas from:
       b. The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
       c. The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
       d. Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) that are proximately caused by flooding as defined in this
            Chapter and are akin to a river of liquid and flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry
            land areas, as when earth is carried by a current of water and deposited along the path of
            the current.
       e. The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other body of water as a
            result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents of water exceeding
            anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an unusually high water level in a natural
            body of water, accompanied by a severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such
            as flash flood or an abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable
            event which results in flooding as defined in this Chapter.
   41. “Flood Insurance Manual” means the document FEMA produces twice a year and is used to
       write flood insurance policies underwritten by the NFIP. The document contains definitions,
       policy rates, coverage and limitations, application and insurance policy forms.
   42. “Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)” means an official map of a community, on which the Federal
       Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of special flood hazards and the


Page 247 of 262
       risk premium zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has been made available digitally
       is called a Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map (DFIRM).
   43. “Flood Insurance Study (FIS) or Flood elevation study” means an examination, evaluation, and
       determination of flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations, or
       an examination, evaluation, and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or flood-related
       erosion hazards.
   44. “Floodplain Development Permit” means a community issued permit or document that is used
       for any development that occurs within an SFHA identified by FEMA or the community. It is used
       to address the proposed development to ensure compliance with the community’s ordinance.
   45. “Floodplain or Flood-Prone Area” means any land area susceptible to being inundated by water
       from any source whether or not identified by FEMA (see definition of Flooding).
   46. “Floodplain Management” means the operation of an overall program of corrective and
       preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to emergency
       preparedness plans, flood control works, mitigation plans, and floodplain management
       regulations.
   47. “Floodplain Management Regulations” means zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations,
       building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as a floodplain ordinance,
       grading ordinance and erosion control ordinance) and other applications of police power. The
       term describes such state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide
       standards for flood damage prevention and reduction.
   48. “Flood Opening” means an opening in the wall of an enclosed structure that allows floodwaters
       to automatically enter and exit the enclosure. Refer to FEMA Technical Bulletin 1.
   49. “Flood Protection System” means those physical structural works for which funds have been
       authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed specifically to modify
       flooding in order to reduce the extent of the area within a community subject to an SFHA and to
       reduce the depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal
       barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized, flood modifying works are those
       constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards. FEMA only accredits levees,
       both private and public, that have been certified by a professional engineer or firm in which the
       certification shows that the levee have met and continue to meet the minimum regulatory
       standards cited in Title 44, Chapter 1, Section 65.10 of the Code of Federal Regulations (44 CFR
       65.10).
   50. “Floodproofing” means any combination of structural and non-structural additions, changes, or
       adjustments to structures that reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate or improved real
       property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their contents. Floodproofing can either
       be accomplished in the form of dry floodproofing in which the structure is watertight below the
       levels that need flood protection, or wet floodproofing in permanent or contingent measures
       applied to a structure that prevent or provide resistance to damage from flooding, while
       allowing floodwaters to enter the structure or area.
   51. “Floodway”—see Regulatory Floodway.
   52. “Floodway encroachment lines” mean the lines marking the limits of floodways on federal,
       state, and local flood plain maps.
   53. “Freeboard” means a factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for purposes
       of flood plain management. “Freeboard” tends to compensate for the many unknown factors


Page 248 of 262
       that could contribute to flood heights greater than the height calculated for a selected size flood
       and floodway conditions, such as wave action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of
       urbanization of the watershed.
   54. “Functionally Dependent Use” means a development that cannot perform its intended purpose
       unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes docking
       facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers,
       and ship building and repair facilities. It does not include long-term storage or related
       manufacturing facilities.
   55. “Highest Adjacent Grade (HAG)” means the highest natural elevation of the ground surface prior
       to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure. In AO Zones, the highest adjacent
       grade is utilized by comparing the lowest floor elevation to that of the highest adjacent grade
       and the depth of the AO Zone.
   56. “Historic Structure” means any structure that is:
       a. Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing maintained by the
             Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as
             meeting the requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
       b. Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as contributing to the
             historical significance of a registered historic district or a district preliminarily determined by
             the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
       c. Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states with historic reservation
             programs that have been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or
       d. Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in communities with historic
             preservation programs that have been certified either:
       e. By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior, or
       f. Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved programs.
   57. “Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA)” means an official amendment, by letter, to an effective
       FIRM. A LOMA establishes a property’s location in relation to the SFHA. It is usually issued
       because a property or structure has been inadvertently mapped as being in the floodplain, when
       it is actually on natural high ground above the BFE.
   58. “Letter of Map Revision (LOMR)” means FEMA's modification or revision to an entire or portion
       of the effective FIRM, or Flood Boundary and Floodway Map, or both. LOMRs are generally
       based on the implementation of physical measures that affect the hydrologic or hydraulic
       characteristics of a flooding source and thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory
       floodway, the effective BFEs, or the SFHA.
   59. “Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F)” means FEMA’s amendment, by letter, to an
       effective FIRM where fill was brought in or used to elevate a property, portion of property or
       structure above the BFE.
   60. “Levee” means a man-made structure usually an earthen embankment, designed and
       constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control, or divert the
       flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary flooding.
   61. “Levee System” means a flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees, and
       associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are constructed and operated
       in accordance with sound engineering practices.



Page 249 of 262
   62. “Lowest Adjacent Grade (LAG)” means the lowest natural elevation of the ground surface prior
       to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure. For an existing structure, it means the
       lowest point where the structure and ground touch, including but not limited to attached
       garages, decks, stairs, and basement windows.
   63. “Lowest floor” means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement). An
       unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or
       storage, in an area other than a basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor,
       provided that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
       applicable nonelevation design requirements of this title.
   64. “Manufactured home” means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built
       on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a permanent foundation when
       connected to the required utilities. For floodplain management purposes, the term
       "manufactured home" also includes park trailers, travel trailers, and other similar vehicles
       placed on a site for greater than one hundred eighty consecutive days. For insurance purposes
       the term "manufactured home" does not include park trailers, travel trailers, and other similar
       vehicles.
   65. “Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision” means a parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
       divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   66. “Map” means the FHBM or the FIRM for a community issued by FEMA.
   67. “Mean Sea Level” means, for purposes of the NFIP, the National Geodetic Vertical Datum
       (NGVD) of 1929, North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988, or other datum, to which BFEs
       shown on a community's FIRM are referenced.
   68. “Mixed Use Structures” means structures with both a business and a residential component, but
       where the area used for business is less than 50 percent of the total floor area of the structure.
   69. “New Construction” means structures for which the start of construction commenced on or
       after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and
       includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. For the purposes of determining
       insurance rates, structures for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the
       effective date of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes any
       subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management purposes, "new
       construction" means structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the
       effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and includes any
       subsequent improvements to such structures.
   70. “New Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision” means a manufactured home park or
       subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the
       manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the
       construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
       completed on or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a
       community.
   71. “No-Rise Certifications” means formal certifications signed and stamped by a professional
       engineer licensed to practice in the state, demonstrating through hydrologic and hydraulic
       analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that a proposed
       development will not result in any increase (0.00 feet) in flood levels within the community
       during the occurrence of a base flood event.


Page 250 of 262
   72. “Physical Map Revision (PMR)” is FEMA’s action whereby one or more map panels are physically
       revised and republished.
   73. “Recreational Vehicle” means a vehicle which is:
       a. Built on a single chassis;
       b. 400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection;
       c. Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck; and
       d. Designed primarily, not for use as a permanent dwelling but, as temporary living quarters
           for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   74. “Regulatory Floodway” means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
       areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively
       increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated height.
   75. “Riverine” means relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including tributaries), stream,
       brook, creek, etcetera, which can be intermittent or perennial.
   76. “Section 1316” means to the section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended,
       which provides for the denial of flood insurance coverage for any property that the
       Administrator finds has been declared by a duly constituted State or local authority to be in
       violation of State or local floodplain management regulations. Section 1316 is issued for a
       property, not a property owner, and remains with the property even after a change of
       ownership.
   77. “Special Flood Hazard Area”—see Area of Special Flood Hazard.
   78. “Start of Construction” means substantial improvement, and means the date the building permit
       was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
       addition placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual
       start means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such
       as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any
       work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
       foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading
       and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
       excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
       nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or
       sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
       improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling,
       floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
       dimensions of the building.
   79. “Structure for Floodplain Management Purposes” means a walled and roofed building, culvert,
       bridge, dam, or a gas or liquid storage tank that is principally above ground, as well as a
       manufactured home.
   80. “Structure for insurance purposes” means:
       a. A building with two or more outside rigid walls and a fully secured roof, which is affixed to a
           permanent site.
       b. A manufactured home (“a manufactured home,” also known as a mobile home, is a
           structure: built on a permanent chassis, transported to its site in one or more sections, and
           affixed to a permanent foundation); or



Page 251 of 262
        c. A travel trailer without wheels built on a chassis and affixed to a permanent foundation,
            that is regulated under the community's floodplain management and building ordinances or
            laws.
        d. For insurance purposes, “structure” does not mean a recreational vehicle or a park trailer or
            other similar vehicle, except as described in paragraph (3) of this definition, or a gas or liquid
            storage tank.
    81. “Substantial Damage” means damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of
        restoring the structure to its pre-damaged condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the
        market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
    82. “Substantial Improvement” means any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
        improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value
        of the structure before the “start of construction” of the improvement. This term includes
        structures which have incurred “substantial damage”, regardless of the actual repair work
        performed.
        a. The term does not, however, include:
        b. Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of state or local
            health, sanitary, or safety code specifications that have been identified by the local code
            enforcement official and are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
        c. Any alteration of a “historic structure”, if the alteration will not preclude the structure's
            continued designation as a “historic structure.”
    83. “Variance” means a grant of relief by a community from the terms of a flood plain management
        regulation.
    84. “Violation” means the failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the
        community's flood plain management regulations. A structure or other development without
        the elevation certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in
        Sections 44 CFR 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in
        violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
    85. “Water surface elevation” means the height, in relation to the North American Vertical Datum
        (NAVD) of 1988, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of various magnitudes and
        frequencies, such as the 1-percent-annual-chance flood event, in the flood plains of coastal or
        riverine areas.
    86. “Watercourse” means the channel and banks of an identifiable water in a creek, brook, stream,
        river, ditch or other similar feature.



                     Chapter 19.58 Geological Hazards Ordinance
19.58.010 - Purpose of provisions.
The purpose of the geologic hazards ordinance is to promote the health, safety and general welfare of
the citizens of the municipality, and minimize the potential adverse effects of geologic hazards to public
health, safety and property by encouraging wise land use in geologically hazardous areas.
19.58.020 - Definitions.
A. As used in this chapter, the following terms have the following meanings:


Page 252 of 262
   1. "Active fault" means a fault displaying evidence of greater than four inches of displacement
       along one or more of its traces during Holocene time (about 10,000 years ago to the present).
   2. "Avalanche" means a large mass of snow, ice, and debris in swift motion down a slope; includes
       both wet and dry snow avalanches.
   3. "Buildable area" means that portion of a site where an approved engineering geology and/or
       geotechnical report, as required, has indicated is not impacted by geologic hazards, or
       concluded that the identified hazards can be mitigated to a level where risk to human life and
       property are reduced to an acceptable and reasonable level, and where structures may be safely
       sited. Buildable areas must be clearly marked on the site plan and/or final approved plat, as
       appropriate.
   4. "Critical facilities" means essential facilities, and lifelines such as major utility, transportation,
       and communication facilities and their connections to essential facilities.
   5. "Debris flow" means a slurry of rock, soil, organic material, and water transported in an
       extremely fast and destructive flow that flows down channels and onto and across alluvial fans;
       includes a continuum of sedimentation events and processes including debris, flows, debris
       floods, mudflows, clearwater floods, and alluvial fan flooding.
   6. "Development" includes all critical and essential facilities, subdivisions, single- and multi-family
       dwellings, commercial and industrial buildings, additions to existing buildings, storage facilities,
       pipelines and utility conveyances, and other land uses.
   7. "Engineering geologist" means a geologist who, through education, training and experience, is
       able to conduct field investigations and interpret geologic conditions to assure that geologic
       factors affecting engineered works are recognized, adequately interpreted, and presented for
       use in engineering practice and for the protection of the public.
   8. "Engineering geology" means the application of geological data, principles and interpretation so
       that geological factors affecting planning, design, construction, and maintenance of engineered
       works are properly recognized and adequately interpreted.
   9. "Essential facility" means buildings and other structures that are intended to remain operational
       in the event of extreme environmental loading from snow or earthquakes, including all Category
       II and III structures as classified in Table 1604.5 of the Building Code.
   10. "Fault" means a fracture in the earth's crust forming a boundary between rock or soil masses
       that have moved relative to each other (see "Active fault").
   11. "Fault setback" means an area on either side of a fault within which construction of structures
       for human occupancy or critical facilities is not permitted.
   12. "Fault scarp" means a steep slope or cliff formed by movement along a fault.
   13. "Fault trace" means the intersection of a fault plane with the ground surface, often present as a
       fault scarp, or detected as a lineament on aerial photographs.
   14. "Fault zone" means a corridor of variable width along one or more fault traces, within which
       deformation has occurred.
   15. "Geologic hazard" means a surface fault rupture, liquefaction, landslide, debris flow, rockfall,
       avalanche, and/or other geologic processes that may present a risk to life and property.
   16. "Geologic hazard maps" refers to the following maps showing Geologic Hazards Special Study
       Areas in then unincorporated Salt Lake County:
   17. "Surface Fault Rupture and Liquefaction Potential Special Study Areas" dated March 31, 1989
       and revised March 1995;


Page 253 of 262
    18. "Avalanche Special Study Areas" dated March 31, 1989;
    19. "Landslide, Debris Flow, and Rockfall Special Study Area Map" dated April 9, 2002.
    20. "Geologic Hazard Special Study Area" means a potentially hazardous area as shown on the
        geological hazards maps, or in other areas defined under "Applicability" (Section 19.58.030),
        within which hazard investigations are generally required prior to development.
    21. "Geotechnical Engineer" means a professional engineer licensed in the State of Utah whose
        education, training and experience, is in the field of geotechnical engineering.
    22. "Geotechnical Engineering" means the investigation and engineering evaluation of earth
        materials including soil, rock and man-made materials and their interaction with earth retention
        systems, foundations, and other civil engineering works. The practice involves the fields of soil
        mechanics, rock mechanics, and earth sciences and requires knowledge of engineering laws,
        formulas, construction techniques, and performance evaluation of engineering.
    23. "Governing body" means the Municipal Council.
    24. "Landslide" means a general term for the downslope movement of a mass of soil, surficial
        deposits or bedrock, including a continuum of processes between landslides, earthflows,
        mudflows, debris flows and debris avalanches, and rockfall.
    25. "Liquefaction" means a process by which certain water-saturated soils lose bearing strength
        because of earthquake-related ground shaking and subsequent increase of groundwater pore
        pressure.
    26. "Non-Buildable Area" means that portion of a site which an engineering geology report has
        concluded may be impacted by geologic hazards that cannot be feasibly mitigated to a safe
        level, and where siting of structures is not permitted.
    27. "Rockfall" means a rock, or mass of rock, newly detached from a cliff or other steep slope which
        moves downslope by falling, rolling, toppling, or bouncing; includes rockslides, rockfall
        avalanches, and talus.
    28. "Setback" means an area within which construction of habitable structures or critical facilities is
        not permitted.
    29. "Slope Stability" means the resistance of a natural or artificial slope or other inclined surface to
        failure by landsliding; usually assessed under both static and dynamic (earthquake induced)
        conditions.
    30. "Structure designed for human occupancy" means any residential dwelling or other structure
        used or intended for supporting or sheltering any human occupancy.
19.58.030 - Applicability.
These regulations are applicable to:
A. All lands within Geological Hazard Special Study Areas in the municipality, as shown on the following
   geologic hazards maps on file with Planning and Development Services:
   1. "Surface Fault Rupture and Liquefaction Potential Special Study Areas" dated March 31, 1989
        and revised March 1995;
   2. "Avalanche Special Study Areas" dated March 31, 1989; and
   3. "Landslide, Debris Flow, and Rockfall Special Study Areas" dated April 9, 2002.
B. Areas where slopes are in excess of thirty percent; and
C. Areas where topography, geology, soil conditions, slope instability, slope angle or aspect, whether
   on-site or off-site, indicate a potential for geologic hazards.


Page 254 of 262
D. Such maps and areas described above and all amendments thereto are made a part of this chapter
   as if fully described and detailed herein. Each change in the geologic hazards maps shall be subject
   to the amendment procedures set forth in Chapter 19.16.
19.58.040 - Disputes.
A. Disputes may arise when:
   1. There is a conflict between the boundary lines illustrated on the map and actual field conditions,
   2. Detailed investigations show that mapped hazards are not present within a particular area, or
   3. Field conditions indicate that unmapped hazards may exist that require study.
B. Disputes shall be settled as follows:
   1. The person disputing the special study area boundary or the presence of mapped or unmapped
       hazard(s) within a particular area shall submit technical and geologic evidence to support their
       claim to the Municipal Geologist in the form of a site-specific geologic hazards report (see
       Section 19.58.060).
   2. The Municipal Geologist may request the Utah Geological Survey, U.S. Forest Service, and/or
       other experts to review the evidence (third-party review) prior to making a decision concerning
       the dispute. The cost of the third-party review shall be paid by the person disputing the map.
   3. The Municipal Geologist may allow deviations from the mapped boundary line only if evidence is
       provided by the applicant that, to the satisfaction of the Municipal Geologist, clearly and
       conclusively establishes that the Geologic Hazard Special Study Area boundary location is
       incorrect, or that the mapped hazards are not present within a particular area.
   4. Any decision of the Municipal Geologist may be appealed to the land use hearing officer
       pursuant to the appeal procedures set forth in Chapter 19.20.
19.58.050 - Studies and reports required.
Any applicant requesting development on a parcel of land within a Geologic Hazard Special Study Area,
as required under Chart 19.58.050, or in other applicable areas as defined in Section 19.58.030, shall
submit to the Planning and Development Services Division two copies of a site-specific geologic hazard
study and report.
 Chart 19.58.050: Special Study Area Report Requirements
 Based on Special Study Area Maps
 Is a Site-Specific Geological Hazards Report Required Prior to Approval?
                                                  Liquefaction Potential
 Land Use (Type of Facility)            Surface   HIGH and        LOW and      Landslide,    Avalanche
                                        Fault     MODERATE        VERY LOW     Debris
                                        Rupture                                Flow &
                                                                               Rockfall
 Critical and Essential Facilities as
                                        Yes       Yes             Yes          Yes           Yes
 defined in Section 19.58.020




Page 255 of 262
 Industrial and Commercial
 Bldgs. (1 story and <5,000 sq.      Yes            No*             Yes           Yes            Yes
 ft.)
 Industrial and Commercial
                                     Yes            Yes             Yes           Yes            Yes
 Bldgs. (>5,000 sq. ft.)

 Residential-Single Lots/Single
                                     Yes            No*             Yes           Yes            Yes
 Family Homes
 Residential Subdivisions (>9
 Lots), and Residential Multi-
                                     Yes            Yes             Yes           Yes            Yes
 Family Dwellings (4 or more
 units per acre)
 Residential Subdivisions (<9
 Lots), and Residential Multi-
                                     Yes            No*             Yes           Yes            Yes
 Family Dwellings (<4 units per
 acre)
 *Although a site-specific investigation is not required, the owner is required to file a disclosure notice
 prior to land use approval


19.58.060 - Geologic hazard and engineering geology reports.
This section describes requirements for site-specific geologic hazard studies and reports, where required
according to Section 19.58.050, the Geologic Hazard maps and Chart 19.58.050:
A. An engineering geology report that includes a geologic hazards investigation and assessment shall
   be prepared by a qualified engineering geologist, except as provided in Sections 19.58.060 (C) and
   (F), below. A "qualified engineering geologist" requires 1) an undergraduate or graduate degree in
   geology, engineering geology, or a related field with a strong emphasis in geologic coursework, from
   an accredited university; 2) at least three full years of experience in a responsible position in the
   field of engineering geology; and 3) per State law, after January 1, 2003, geologists practicing before
   the public must be licensed in Utah. The report shall be site-specific and shall identify all known or
   suspected potential geologic hazards, originating on-site or off-site, whether previously mapped or
   unmapped, that may affect the particular property. All reports shall be signed and stamped by the
   preparer and include the qualifications of the preparer.
B. Fault rupture hazard reports shall contain all requirements as described in the document "Minimum
   Standards for Surface Fault Rupture Studies" published by Salt Lake County, and incorporated by
   reference as Appendix A of this ordinance. Fault study reports shall be prepared, signed, and
   stamped by a qualified engineering geologist as described in Appendix A.
C. Liquefaction analyses shall contain all requirements as stated in the document "Liquefaction: A
   Guide to Land Use Planning" published by Salt Lake County and incorporated by reference as
   Appendix B to this ordinance. Liquefaction analyses shall be prepared by a qualified professional
   geotechnical engineer licensed in the State of Utah, and shall include the professional engineer's
   original stamp and signature.


Page 256 of 262
D. Debris flow hazard studies and reports shall include test pits or trench logs (scaled 1 inch to 5 feet),
   include estimates of the number and frequency of past events and their thicknesses, volume and
   maximum clast sizes; and include estimates of the recurrence, depth, and impact forces anticipated
   in future events. While debris flow hazard analyses may require contributions from hydrologists and
   engineers, the debris flow report shall be under the control of, and prepared by, a qualified
   engineering geologist, and shall include the geologist's qualifications to perform the study (such as
   their experience in performing similar studies).
E. Landslide reports shall be prepared in accordance with the Utah Geological Survey's "Guidelines for
   Evaluating Landslide Hazards in Utah" (Hylland, 1996). Landslide reports shall be prepared, signed,
   and stamped by a qualified engineering geologist, and include the qualifications of the preparer.
   Slope stability or other analyses included in these reports shall include both static and dynamic
   conditions, and shall be prepared by a qualified professional geotechnical engineer licensed in the
   State of Utah, and shall include the professional engineer's original stamp and signature.
F. Snow avalanche hazard reports shall be prepared in accordance with the document "Snow-
   Avalanche Hazard Analysis for Land Use Planning and Engineering" (Colorado Geological Survey
   Bulletin 49) or other appropriate references. Avalanche hazard reports must be prepared by an
   experienced avalanche expert, and shall include the avalanche expert's qualifications to perform the
   study (such as their experience in performing similar studies).
G. Other geologic hazard or engineering geology reports shall be prepared in accordance with Utah
   Geological Survey Miscellaneous Publication M, "Guidelines for Preparing Engineering Geologic
   Reports in Utah." All reports shall be signed by the preparer and include the qualifications of the
   preparer. Generally, these reports must be prepared, signed, and stamped by a qualified
   engineering geologist licensed in the State of Utah. However, reports co-prepared by a professional
   engineer must include the professional engineer's original stamp and signature.
H. All reports shall include, at a minimum:
   1. A 1:24,000-scale geologic map (with reference) showing the surface geology, bedrock geology
        (where exposed), bedding attitudes, faults or other structural features, and the locations of any
        geologic hazards;
   2. A detailed site map of the subject area showing any site-specific mapping performed as part of
        the geologic investigation, and including boundaries and features related to any geologic
        hazards, topography, and drainage. The site map must show the location and boundaries of the
        hazard(s), delineation of any recommended setback distances from hazard(s), and
        recommended location(s) for structures. Buildable and non-buildable areas shall be clearly
        identified. Scale shall be one inch equals two hundred feet or smaller.
   3. Trench logs and test pit logs (scale: 1 inch equals 5 feet, or smaller), boring logs (scale: 1 inch
        equals 5 feet, or smaller), aerial photographs, references with citations, and other supporting
        information, as applicable
I. Conclusions that summarize the characteristics of the geologic hazards, and that address the
   potential effects of the geologic conditions and geologic hazards on the proposed development and
   occupants thereof in terms of risk and potential damage.
J. Specific recommendations for additional or more detailed studies, as may be required to understand
   or quantify the hazard, evaluate whether mitigation measures are required, and evaluate mitigation
   options.



Page 257 of 262
K. Specific recommendations for avoidance or mitigation of the effects of the hazard(s), consistent
   with the purposes set forth in Section 19.58.010. Design or performance criteria for engineered
   mitigation measures and all supporting calculations, analyses, modeling or other methods, and
   assumptions, shall be included in the report. Final design plans and specifications for engineered
   mitigation must be signed and stamped by a qualified professional geotechnical or structural
   engineer, as appropriate.
L. Evidence on which recommendations and conclusions are based shall be clearly stated in the report.
M. Additional or more detailed studies may be required, as recommended by the report or as
   determined by the Municipal Geologist, to understand or quantify the hazard, or to evaluate
   whether mitigation measures recommended in the report are adequate.
19.58.070 - Review of reports—Approval procedure.
A. In order to fulfill the purposes of this chapter, the Planning and Development Services Division or
   the Planning Commission, as appropriate under the Municipality's Development Standards, shall
   review any proposed land use which requires preparation of a geologic hazard report under this
   chapter to determine the possible risks to the safety of persons or property from geologic hazards.
B. Prior to consideration of any such development by the Planning and Development Services Division
   and the Planning Commission, the geologic hazard report shall be submitted to the Municipal
   Geologist for review and recommendation. The Municipal Geologist may request the Utah
   Geological Survey, the U.S. Forest Service, and/or other experts to review the report (third-party
   review) and provide additional recommendations. Any cost the municipal must pay for such third-
   party reviews shall be paid by the applicant prior to Planning Commission or Planning and
   Development Services Division action. The Municipal Geologist shall file a copy of the geologic
   hazard report in the Municipal Geologist's Geologic Hazards Library, and another copy in the
   Planning and Development Services project file. A copy may also be forwarded to the Utah
   Geological Survey.
C. The Municipal Geologist and other retained experts in their review of the report, and the Planning
   Commission or Planning and Development Services Director in their consideration of the
   development, shall determine whether the development complies with all of the following
   standards:
   1. A suitable geologic hazard report has been prepared by a qualified professional as defined in
       Section 19.58.060.
   2. The proposed land use does not present an unreasonable risk to the safety of persons or
       property (including buildings, storm drains, public streets, utilities or critical facilities, whether
       off-site or on-site), or to the aesthetics and natural functions of the landscape (e.g. slopes,
       streams or other waterways, drainage, wildlife habitat, etc., whether off-site or on-site) because
       of the presence of geologic hazards or because of modifications to the site due to the proposed
       land use;
   3. At the Planning Commission's discretion, with advice from the Municipal Geologist, the
       proposed land use may be approved if the applicant submits substantial evidence in the geologic
       hazard report that, using best available practices, the identified hazards can be mitigated to a
       level where the risk of human life and damage to property are reduced to an acceptable and
       reasonable level in a manner which has a minimum effect on the natural environment.




Page 258 of 262
D. Any area determined to contain geologic hazards to life or property shall not be approved for
   development unless the applicant demonstrates that the identified hazards or limitations can be
   overcome in such a manner as to minimize hazard to life or property. The applicant must include,
   with the geologic hazards report, an acceptable mitigation plan that defines how the identified
   hazards or limitations will be overcome in such a manner as to minimize hazard to life or property,
   as described in Section 19.58.070C(1), above, and without impacting or affecting off-site areas.
E. The Municipal Geologist may set other requirements as are necessary to overcome any geologic
   hazards and to ensure that the purposes of this chapter are met. These requirements may include,
   but are not limited to:
   1. Additional or more detailed studies to understand or quantify the hazard or determine whether
       mitigation measures recommended in the report are adequate;
   2. Specific mitigation requirements; establishment of buildable and/or non-buildable areas;
       limitations on slope grading; and/or revegetation;
   3. Installation of monitoring equipment and seasonal monitoring of surface and subsurface
       geologic conditions, including groundwater levels;
   4. Other requirements such as time schedules for completion of the mitigation, phasing of
       development, etc.
F. The Planning Commission or Planning and Development Services Director may set requirements
   necessary to reduce the risks from geologic hazards as a condition to the approval of any
   development which requires a geologic hazards report.
19.58.080 - Requirements in geologic hazard areas.
A. Active fault considerations.
   1. No critical facility (excluding transportation lines or utilities, which by their nature may cross
       active faults) or structures designed for human occupancy shall be built astride an active fault. A
       fault study must be prepared as defined in Sections 19.58.030 and 19.58.060, and Appendix A,
       prior to final approval of the land use or building permits. If a fault is discovered in the
       excavation for such a structure, whether located within a Special Study Area or not, a special
       study, as described in Section 19.58.060 must be performed to determine if the fault is active. If
       the fault is determined to be active, the procedures set forth in Section 19.58.070 shall be
       followed. The fault study report shall establish a fault setback on either side of the fault
       following the requirements in Appendix A, within which no critical facilities or structures for
       human occupancy shall be placed.
   2. No structure designed for human occupancy shall be built on a fault scarp. Footing setbacks
       from a fault scarp shall meet the requirements in Appendix A or the requirements of the
       Building Code, whichever is more stringent. The Planning and Development Services Director
       may increase footing setback requirements where information from a geotechnical report
       indicates slope conditions warrant a greater setback distance.
B. Liquefaction considerations.
   1. Liquefaction analyses shall be performed for all critical facilities regardless of the mapped
       special study area designation for the site.
   2. For all structures for which a liquefaction analysis indicates that ground settlement may be
       anticipated, the project structural engineer shall provide documentation to the Municipal




Page 259 of 262
       Geologist that the building will be designed to accommodate the predicted ground settlements,
       in such a manner as to be protective of life safety during the design event.
C. Avalanche considerations.
   1. Development of structures for human occupancy is not permitted within an avalanche special
       study area, or in other areas where avalanche hazards may exist, unless a detailed avalanche
       hazard analysis is performed, as described in Section 19.58.060, by a qualified avalanche expert.
   2. If the avalanche analysis indicates that the site may be impacted by avalanches, the report shall
       delineate the following areas:
       a. A "red zone" of high avalanche potential [return period of twenty-five years or less, and/or
            impact pressures over six hundred pounds per square foot (psf)] within which critical
            facilities or structures for human occupancy are not permitted;
       b. A "blue zone" (return period between twenty-five and three hundred years, and impact
            pressures less than six hundred psf) within which critical facilities or structures for human
            occupancy shall only be permitted when at least one of the following requirements has
            been met:
            (1) The structure is designed to incorporate direct protection measures that address the
                 estimated impact forces (flowing snow/debris and powder blast loading). The estimated
                 impact forces shall be calculated by the avalanche expert. The structure shall be
                 designed by, and the plans stamped by, a qualified structural engineer licensed in the
                 State of Utah; or
            (2) Appropriate engineering controls (i.e. deflection structures, snow retention nets, dams,
                 etc.) are designed and installed to mitigate the avalanche hazard. Design or
                 performance criteria for engineered mitigation measures (including estimated impact
                 forces, flow heights, location and dimensions of the mitigation structures) and all
                 supporting modeling or other analyses, calculations, and assumptions, shall be
                 calculated by the avalanche expert and included in the report. Final design plans and
                 specifications for engineered mitigation must be signed and stamped by a qualified
                 professional geotechnical or structural engineer, as appropriate, licensed in the State of
                 Utah.
19.58.090 - Disclosure.
Disclosure when a geologic hazards report is required. Whenever a geologic hazards report is required
under this chapter, the owner of the parcel shall record a restrictive covenant running with the land in a
form satisfactory to the municipality prior to the approval of any development or subdivision of such
parcel. Disclosure will include signing a Disclosure and Acknowledgment Form provided by the
muncipality, which will include the following:
A. Notice that the parcel is located within a Geologic Hazard Special Study Area as shown on the
    geologic hazard map or otherwise defined in Section 19.58.030;
B. Notice that a geologic hazards report was prepared and is available for public inspection in the
    Municipal Geologist's Geologic Hazards Library;
C. Where geologic hazards and related setbacks are delineated in subdivisions and PUDs, the owner
    shall also place additional notification on the plat stating the above information, prior to final
    approval of the plat.




Page 260 of 262
D. Disclosure when a geologic hazards report is not required. Whenever a parcel to be developed is
   located within a Geologic Hazard Special Study Area but a geologic hazards report is not required
   under this chapter (such as but not limited to, a single-family home located in a moderate
   liquefaction potential area), notice that the parcel is located within such area(s) shall be recorded by
   the land owner by signing a Disclosure and Acknowledgment Form provided by the muncipality,
   prior to the approval of any such development.
19.58.100 - Warning and disclaimer.
    The geologic hazards ordinance codified in this chapter and geologic hazard maps represent only
    those hazardous areas known to the municipality, and should not be construed to include all
    possible potential hazard areas. The geologic hazards ordinance and the geologic hazard maps may
    be amended as new information becomes available pursuant to procedures set forth in Chapter
    19.90. The provisions of this chapter do not in any way assure or imply that areas outside its
    boundaries will be free from the possible adverse effects of geologic hazards. This chapter shall not
    create liability on the part of the muncipality, any officer or employee thereof for any damages from
    geologic hazards that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative requirement or
    decision lawfully made thereunder.
19.58.110 - Change of use.
No change in use which results in the conversion of a building or structure from one not used for human
occupancy to one that is so used shall be permitted unless the building or structure complies with the
provisions of this chapter.
19.58.120 - Conflicting regulations.
In cases of conflict between the provisions of existing zoning classifications, building code, subdivision
ordinance, or any other ordinance of the municipality and the geologic hazards ordinance codified in this
chapter, the most restrictive provision shall apply.




Page 261 of 262
                  Chapter 19.60 (Reserved)
                  Chapter 19.62 (Reserved)
                  Chapter 19.64 (Reserved)




Page 262 of 262
