                                          Planning and Development Services
                                          860 Levoy Drive, Suite 300 • Taylorsville, UT 84123
                                          Phone: (385) 910-5600




                      White City Planning Commission
                                    Public Meeting Agenda

                    Tuesday, June 24, 2025, 6:00 P.M.

Location
SANDY LIBRARY
SMALL MEETING ROOM
10100 SOUTH PETUNIA WAY, SANDY

 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and County staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.


                                    BUSINESS MEETING

    1) Approval of May 20, 2025, Planning Commission Meeting Minutes. (Motion/Voting)
    2) Other Business Items. (As Needed)

                                    PUBLIC HEARING(S)

OAM2025-001340 – (Continued from May 20, 2025) – An application to amend White City
Code to create the Landscape Contractor Yard use. This citizen-proposed ordinance amendment
would allow the Landscape Contractor Yard use in the A-2 zone as a permitted use. The proposal
includes a definition and specific use standards associated with the use. Applicant: Alex Smith.
Planner: Shad Cook (Discussion/Recommendation)

                                          ADJOURN




June 24, 2025                               Page 1 of 2                          AGENDA – WHITE CITY PC
             Rules of Conduct for Planning Commission Meetings
PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT

1.   Any person or entity may appear in person or be represented by an authorized agent at any meeting of the
     Commission.

2.   Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the procedure on an application shall be:

     a. The supporting agency staff will introduce the application, including staff’s recommendations and a
        summary of pertinent written comments and reports concerning the application

     b. The applicant will be allowed up to 15 minutes to make their presentation.

     c. The Community Council representative can present their comments as applicable.

     d. Where applicable, persons in favor of, or not opposed to, the application will be invited to speak.

     e. Where applicable, persons opposing the application, in whole or in part will be invited to speak.

     f. Where applicable, the applicant will be allowed 5 minutes to provide concluding statements.

     g. Surrebuttals may be allowed at the discretion of the Chair.

CONDUCT FOR APPLICANTS AND THE PUBLIC

1.   Speakers will be called to the podium by the Chair.

2.   Each speaker, before talking, shall give his or her name and address.

3.   All comments should be directed to the Commissioners, not to the staff or to members of the audience.

4.   For items where there are several people wishing to speak, the Chair may impose a time limit, usually 3
     minutes per person, or 5 minutes for a group spokesperson. If a time limit is imposed on any member or
     spokesperson of the public, then the same time limit is imposed on other members or spokespersons of the
     public, respectively.

5.   Unless otherwise allowed by the Chair, no questions shall be asked by the speaker or Commission Members.

6.   Only one speaker is permitted before the Commission at a time.

7.   The discussion must be confined to essential points stated in the application bearing on the desirability or
     undesirability of the application.

8.   The Chair may cease any presentation or information that has already been presented and acknowledge that it
     has been noted in the public record.

9.   No personal attacks shall be indulged in by either side, and such action shall be sufficient cause for stopping the
     speaker from proceeding.

10. No applause or public outbursts shall be permitted.

11. The Chair or supporting agency staff may request police support to remove offending individuals who refuse to
    abide by these rules.

12. After the public comment portion of a meeting or hearing has concluded, the discussion will be limited to the
    Planning Commission and Staff.




June 24, 2025                                                                                AGENDA – WHITE CITY PC
                                                      Text Amendment
Meeting Body:

White City Planning Commission
                                                  SUMMARY/BACKGROUND
Meeting Date:
                                 Alex Smith, the applicant, owns property located at 1226 E 10600 S in
June 24, 2025                    White City. The property is currently used as a plant nursery (approved in
File Number & Project Type:      2024 as a permitted use in the A-2 zone) .and is approximately 1.22 acres
OAM2025-001340                   in size. In March of last year, Mr. Smith applied to rezone his property from
                                 A-2 to CMU. The request was denied.
Text Amendment

Applicant:
                                 This proposed ordinance amendment was written by the applicant, with
Alex Smith
                                 the intent being to introduce a new use to the ordinance that would allow
Exhibits:                        him to operate his landscape business - without opening the door to other
                                 high impact uses that typically come with a commercial or industrial zone.
Applicant Narrative
                                 This involves defining the use, adding that use to the land use table in
Proposed Ordinance               Chapter 19.26 as a permitted use in the A-2 zone, and addition a set of use
                                 standards to Chapter 19.42 of the White City Code.


                                 Mr. Smith provided a written narrative in addition to the use definition,
                                 updated schedule of permitted uses, and proposed use standards. The
                                 primary reasoning behind the request is two-fold: first, he feels a
                                 landscape contractor yard is similar in intensity to other agricultural-based
                                 businesses allowed in the A-2 zone, and second, there is currently a
                                 landscape contractor business located in an A-2 zone on property adjacent
                                 to his. (see attached narrative)


                                 The White City Planning Commission first heard this item at the May 20th,
                                 2025 Planning Commission meeting. The Planning Commission continued
                                 the item, giving the applicant an opportunity to work with staff and
                                 neighboring property owners to further refine the proposed ordinance.



                                             PROPOSED ORDINANCE CHANGES


                                                           19.04 Definitions
                                 19.04.090 Use Definitions

      Text Amendment Application: OAM2025-001340                              Date: 06/24/25 | Page 1 of 4
          96. “Landscape Contractor Yard” means any area of land used by a landscape
               contractor for storage, maintenance, or processing of materials and equipment
               incidental to the business of landscaping installation, hauling, excavation, or
               similar activity and including any area of land used for the incidental repair of
               machinery used for any of the above listed activities. For the purposes of this
               definition, a “landscape contractor” is a company who agrees to furnish
               materials or perform services at a specified price for construction of
               landscaping improvements.



                               Chapter 19.26 Agricultural Zones
 Table 19.26.030 – Schedule of Permitted Uses
 Use Categories                                                                           Zones
 COMMERCIAL:                                                                    A-1           A-2
 Bed and Breakfast Homestay                                                     P             P
 Daycare/Preschool Center                                                       P             P
 Dog breeding establishment; dog kennel; dog pound; dog training school         X             P
 Landscape Contractor Yard                                                      X             P
 Nursery and Greenhouse                                                         P             P
 Riding Academy                                                                 P             P
 Veterinary Clinic                                                              X             P




                             Chapter 19.42 Specific Use Standards
19.42.225 Landscape Contractor Yard
    1. The site must be located on a property that has primary access to a street designated as a
       Principal or Minor Arterial on the UDOT Functional Classification Map. Private streets may not be
       used for business purposes.
    2. The area used for outside storage of landscape materials or equipment may not exceed fifty
       percent (50%) of the total lot area.
    3. Stored materials and equipment shall be screened by a minimum six-foot high opaque fence. The
       required screening shall be established prior to the use of any area for outside storage.
    4. Each Landscape Contractor Yard shall include a masonry wall along the entirety of each public
       street frontage. This wall shall be constructed at the front setback line required for buildings in
       the underlying zone. The outdoor storage area may not be closer to street than the front facade
       of the building
    5. Outside storage areas shall be maintained in a clean, neat, and orderly condition. All loose
       materials shall be stored in designated containers.
    6. The presence of hazardous materials, junk, junk cars, or debris is prohibited.
    7. Vehicles on site shall be limited to Class 5 and below.

Text Amendment Application: OAM2025-001340                                  Date: 06/24/25 | Page 2 of 4
     8. All buildings shall be located at least 20 feet from any property line.
     9. No outdoor telephone bell or paging system may be used.
     10. A minimum site area of one (1) acre is required.
     11. Employee parking areas shall comply with the specifications set forth in section 19.48.030, and
         19.48.050.
     12. Hours of operation shall be limited to 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. However, loading and unloading of
         landscape materials and the operation of heavy equipment or machinery shall be limited to the
         hours of 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. The Planning and Development Services Director may further
         limit hours or activities as necessary to mitigate impacts on adjacent residential uses.
     13. All driveways, approaches, and outdoor work areas must be surfaced with an all-weather
         material.


                                       ISSUES TO CONSIDER

     -    Most A-2 zoned property in White City would not qualify for this use, due to use standard #1.
          This may create confusion for residents when reviewing the schedule of allowed uses in
          Agricultural zones.
     -    The MSD is aware of one legal nonconforming landscape business operating in White City.
          Allowing a landscape contractor yard in the A-2 zone could help bring that business back into
          compliance with the current ordinance.
     -    This proposal does not suggest adding this use to any of White City’s commercial or mixed-use
          zones, only to the A-2 Agricultural Zone.
     -    The A-2 areas in White City are currently limited to the Southern Spur Character Area and the
          10600 South Corridor Character Area, as identified in the 2022 General Plan. The Planning
          Commission and Council should consider whether this use would meet White City’s vision for
          the development of these areas.
     -    As of the writing of this staff report, the applicant has not provided any additional input from
          the neighbors for the 6/24 meeting.


                                          STAFF ANALYSIS
  The White City Code of Ordinances allows property owners within White City to apply for a Text
  Amendment. The White City Council takes formal action on a request after receiving a recommendation
  from the Planning Commission.


  Chapter 19.16 includes guidelines and factors that the Planning Commission and Council may take into
  account when considering a text amendment. The Planning Commission recommendation and the
  Council decision are matters of legislative discretion, so additional factors may also be considered.

Table 19.16-2: Guidelines for Considering Zoning Map & Text Amendments

FACTORS                                                          MAP AMENDMENTS TEXT AMENDMENTS




  Text Amendment Application: OAM2025-001340                                  Date: 06/24/25 | Page 3 of 4
1. The proposed amendment is compatible with the Adopted
                                                                       X                      X
General Plan.

2. The proposed amendment promotes the public health,
                                                                       X                      X
safety and welfare.

3. The proposed amendment is a more suitable zoning
                                                                       X
classification for the property than the current classification.

4. The proposed amendment is compatible with the intent and
                                                                       X                      X
general purposes of this Ordinance.

5. The proposed amendment corrects an error or omission,
adds clarification to existing requirements, or reflects a change      X                      X
in policy.

6. The proposed amendment benefits the citizens of the
                                                                       X                      X
Municipality as a whole.

7. The proposed amendment does not create a significant
                                                                       X                      X
number of nonconformities.

8. The proposed amendment is compatible with the trend of
development, if any, in the general area of the property in            X
question.




                           CONCLUSION AND POSSIBLE ACTIONS

  The White City Planning Commission should consider motions to recommend approval, modified
  approval, or denial of the proposed text amendment.

      1. Recommend approval: The planning commission supports the text amendment as currently
         written and recommends that the White City Council approve application OAM2025-001340.
      2. Recommend modified approval: The planning commission supports the text amendment and
         recommends that the White City Council approve the application, subject to the following
         modification(s),
      3. Recommend denial: The planning commission does not support the text amendment and
         recommends that the White City Council deny application OAM2025-001340 for the following
         reasons,

  As text amendments are legislative decisions, planning staff recommends that the planning commission
  consider the intent and purpose of the adopted general plan, and whether this change will help
  implement the goals and objectives of that plan.


  Text Amendment Application: OAM2025-001340                               Date: 06/24/25 | Page 4 of 4
                                                                         Date 2/20/2025



We here at Earthscapes are applying for a amendment to the permitted used as a A2 Property to except
a landscape contractors yard in addition to the nursery that we are already approved for and we will
operate less as a retail nursery and more as a contractor yard limiting the amount of public traﬃc and
more so as a company HQ parking a few employee cars and going oﬀ in a company truck to do
installation, Abiding by the city ordinance of noise and disturbance
                             DRAFT WHITE CITY TITLE 19
                         LAND USE CONTRACTOR PROPOSAL


                                    19.04.090 Use Definitions
              96. “Landscape Contractor Yard” means any area of land used by a landscape contractor for
              storage, maintenance, or processing of materials and equipment incidental to the business
              of landscaping installation, hauling, excavation, or similar activity and including any area of
              land used for the incidental repair of machinery used for any of the above listed activities.
              For the purposes of this definition, a “landscape contractor” is a company who agrees to
              furnish materials or perform services at a specified price for construction of landscaping
              improvements.

                               Chapter 19.26 Agricultural Zones

Table 19.26.030 – Schedule of Permitted Uses

Use Categories                                                                                              Zones

AGRICULTURAL:                                                                                        A-1            A-2
Agriculture                                                                                           P             P

Agricultural Building subject to Accessory structure standards of this Chapter                        P             P

Animals and Fowl for Family Food Production, Existing                                                 P             P
Animal Hospital                                                                                       P             P
Animal Right, New                                                                                     P             P
Apiary                                                                                                X             P
Aviary                                                                                                X             P
Egg candling and Sales                                                                                X             P
Fertilizer and Soil Conditioner manufacturing, processing, and sales                                  X             C
Gardening for Personal Use                                                                            P             P
Manure spreading, processing, drying, sales                                                           X             P
Residential Keeping of Chickens or Ducks or Domestic Fowl                                             P             P
Stable, Private or Public                                                                             P             P
RESIDENTIAL:
Dwelling, Single-Family                                                                               P             P


Page 1 of 3
Dwelling, Two-Family                                                                            P       X
Residential Facility for Elderly Persons                                                        P       P
Residential Facility for Persons with a Disability Subject to Chapter 19.42                     P       P
ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory structures, Garages, Carports                                                         P       P
Home Daycare/Preschool subject to Chapter 19.42                                                 P       P
Home Business subject to Chapter 19.42                                                          P       P
Household Pets                                                                                  P       P
COMMERCIAL:
Bed and Breakfast Homestay                                                                      P       P
Daycare/Preschool Center                                                                        P       P
Dog breeding establishment; dog kennel; dog pound; dog training school                          X       P
Landscape Contractor Yard                                                                       X       P
Nursery and Greenhouse                                                                          P       P
Riding Academy                                                                                  P       P
Veterinary Clinic                                                                               X       P
INSTITUTIONAL:
Parks/Open Space                                                                                P       P
Utilities, Major                                                                                P       P
Utilities, Minor                                                                                P       P
School, Public                                                                                  P       P
School, Private/Charter                                                                         P       P
Religious Institutions and Uses                                                                 P       P
OTHER USES:
Temporary Buildings for Uses Incidental to Construction Work                                    P       P




                               19.42 Specific Use Standards
19.42.225 Landscape Contractor Yard
    1. The site must be located on a property that has primary access to a street designated as a
       Principal or Minor Arterial on the UDOT Functional Classification Map. Private streets may not
       be used for business purposes.



Page 2 of 3
    2. The area used for outside storage of landscape materials or equipment may not exceed fifty
        percent (50%) of the total lot area.
    3. Stored materials and equipment shall be screened by a minimum six-foot high opaque fence.
        The required screening shall be established prior to the use of any area for outside storage.
    4. Each Landscape Contractor Yard shall include a masonry wall along the entirety of each public
        street frontage. This wall shall be constructed at the front setback line required for buildings in
        the underlying zone. The outdoor storage area may not be closer to street than the front facade
        of the building
    5. Outside storage areas shall be maintained in a clean, neat, and orderly condition. All loose
        materials shall be stored in designated containers.
    6. The presence of hazardous materials, junk, junk cars, or debris is prohibited.
    7. Vehicles on site shall be limited to Class 5 and below.
    8. All buildings shall be located at least 20 feet from any property line.
    9. No outdoor telephone bell or paging system may be used.
    10. A minimum site area of one (1) acre is required.
    11. Employee parking areas shall comply with the specifications set forth in section 19.48.030, and
        19.48.050.
    12. Hours of operation shall be limited to 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. However, loading and unloading of
        landscape materials and the operation of heavy equipment or machinery shall be limited to the
        hours of 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. The Planning and Development Services Director may further
        limit hours or activities as necessary to mitigate impacts on adjacent residential uses.
    13. All driveways, approaches, and outdoor work areas must be surfaced with an all-weather
        material.




Page 3 of 3
