                                                               ..
                           WHITE CITY COUNCIL MEETING AGENDA

                                         June 4, 2026
                                           6:00 PM
                             White City Water Improvement District
                             999 E Galena Drive, White City 84094

PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the White City Council will hold a regular meeting on
the 4th day of June, 2026 at the White City Water Improvement District, 999 E Galena Drive,
White City, Utah as follows:

This meeting will be held at the anchor location and electronically for members of the staff and/or
public that cannot attend. Those interested in attending electronically should follow the information
noted at the end of this agenda. **Portions of the meetings may be closed for reasons allowed by
statute. Motions relating to any of the items listed below, including final action, may be taken.

6:00 p.m. – WORKSHOP

1. Public Comments -- (Limited to 3 minutes per person) Any person wishing to comment on
   any item not otherwise scheduled for a public hearing on the agenda may address the Council
   at this point by coming to the table and giving their name for the record. Comments should be
   limited to not more than three (3) minutes unless additional time is authorized by the Governing
   Body.)
2. Discussion/Clarification of Agenda Items
3. Discussion of Title 1 General Provisions Code Rewrite [Cameron Platt, Attorney]
4. Discussion and Review of new Code Language “Motor Assisted Bicycles and Vehicles”
   [Cameron Platt, Attorney]
5. Discussion and Review of Roles, Authority, and Best Practices for Governance in a Five
   Member Council Form of Government [Cameron Platt, Attorney]
6. Discussion Designating the Emergency Interim Succession Order [Cameron Platt, Attorney]
7. Discuss future agenda items
8. Close Workshop Meeting

   BUSINESS MEETING

1. Welcome and Determine Quorum

2. Financial Report [Mayor Perry]

3. Unified Fire Authority Report [Chief Ken Aldridge]

4. Unified Police Department Report [Detective Josh Smith, Chief April Morse]

4. PUBLIC HEARING
   4.1 Receive Public Comment on FY 2027 Tentative White City Budget beginning on July 1,
       2026 and ending June 30, 2027 [Rori Andreason, City Administrator]
             ACTION: Consider Resolution No. 2026-06-01 Adopting the White City Budget
                     for Fiscal Year 2027 beginning July 1, 2026 and ending June 30, 2027

5. ACTION ITEMS
   5.1 Approve Minutes of May 7, 2026 [Rori Andreason, City Administrator]

   5.2 Discussion and Update for the Big Bear Master Plan and Park Committee [Daniele
      Benigni, Long-Range Planner]

   5.3 Discussion and Possible Action Resolution No. 2026-06-02 to Adopt City Council Rules
       of Order [Cameron Platt, Attorney]

   5.4 Discussion and Possible Action Ordinance No. 2026-O-01 Enacting Title 11 Chapter 34
       “Motor Assisted Bicycles and Vehicles” [Cameron Platt, Attorney]

   5.5 Discussion and Possible Action Resolution No. 2026-06-03 Adopting UDOT Master
       Landscape Agreement [Cameron Platt, Attorney]

   5.6 Discussion and Possible Action Resolution No. 2026-06-04 Designating the Emergency
       Interim Succession Order [Cameron Platt, Attorney]

6. COUNCIL REPORTS
   6.1 Mayor Allan Perry
       • Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
       • Council of Governments
       • Unified Police Department/SLVLESA

   6.2 Council Member Tyler Huish
      • Unified Fire Authority
      • Unified Fire Service Area

   6.3 Council Member Linda Price
       • Mosquito Abatement
       • Salt Lake County Animal Control

   6.4 Council Member Greg Shelton
      • Wasatch Front Waste & Recycling District

   6.5 Council Member Neil Mahoney
      • White City Community Council

7. CITY ADMINISTRAT0R REPORT

8. ATTORNEY REPORT

9. CLOSED SESSIONS IF NEEDED AS ALLOWED UNDER UTAH CODE ANN. 52-4-205)
    9.1 Discussion of the Character, Professional Competence or Physical or Mental Health of an
        Individual.
   2|Page                     whitecity.utah.gov
9.2 Strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation.
9.3 Strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property.
9.4 Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel,
9.5 Other lawful purposes as listing in Utah Code 52-4-205
10. ADJOURN

   ZOOM MEETING

   When: June 4, 2026 06:00 PM Mountain Time (US and Canada)

   Topic: White City Council Meeting

   Join from PC, Mac, iPad, or Android:
   https://us06web.zoom.us/j/84004405024?pwd=gK0UhMCZj9InDOGB0mw8kL8k61zvOk.1

   Passcode:821262

   A copy of the foregoing agenda was posted at the following locations on the date posted below:
      White City website at whitecity.utah.gov and the State Public Notice Website at
      http://pmn.utah.gov . Pursuant to State Law and White City Ordinance, Councilmembers
      may participate electronically. Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 52-4-205, Parts of Meetings
      may be Closed for Reasons Allowed by Statute.

POSTED: June 3, 2026




   3|Page                      whitecity.utah.gov
                           DRAFT AMENDMENTS TO WHITE CITY CODE



Preface

In 2018, codification and administration of the Municipal Code began in-house under the direction
of the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District and with the assistance of Municipal Code
Corporation. This Municipal Code shall be cited as the White City Code or “WCC” as an acronym.

WCC is fully current, but we are in the process of reviewing various hard copy ordinances
to perfect the existing legislative histories of each section.

This Municipal Code maintains a structure by subject matter using a decimal numbering system
identifying the Title, Chapter, and Section (for example: 1.01.010).

     •    The first number in the sequence (Title 1.01.010) designates the Title level

     •    The second series of numbers (Title 1.01.010) designates the Chapter level

     •    The last series (Title 1.01.010) designates the Section level

This complete set of numbers is designed to aid in searching the Municipal Code and to assist in
subsequent codification as new ordinances are added to the Municipal Code. Vacant titles,
chapters, or sections may be designed for future use and may be marked “Reserved” to ease
internal expansion.

To outline, give structure, and more granularly reference the legislation herein, the following list
order or pattern of ascending alphanumeric characters is used: A, 1, a, (1), (A), (a). Drafting future
legislation with this list order reconciles it with the online code’s list order. To forego the naming of
each list item and to more granularly reference legislation that employs alphanumeric characters,
use “Part” (always capitalized) followed by the desired alphanumeric reference(s), comma
separated. For example, “Part B,7,d”, specifically references item “d”, of item “7”, of item “B”—
whereas “Part B” refers more generally to any or all of Part B’s descendants. References herein
revealing “Utah Code” implies a reference to the Utah State Code.

The legislative history beneath a legislation’s content identifies the specific legal sources, and may
be provided to substantiate the online code.

The Municipal Code is supplemented from time to time with amendments and additions made by
White City. The specific legal sources that comprise this Municipal Code have been adapted
during the codification process from the original formatting of the official hard copy. In the event
of discrepancies between the online Municipal Code and the official hard copy, the official hard
copy governs. Municipal Code Corporation, provides a searchable database of the Municipal
Code for easy reference and convenience.

NOTICE: THE MUNICIPAL CODE MAY NOT REFLECT ALL OR THE MOST CURRENT
VERSION OF LEGISLATION ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL THAT HAS YET TO BE
UPDATED ONLINE. IN THE EVENT OF CONFLICT BETWEEN THE MUNICIPAL CODE AND A
WRITTEN ORDINANCE, THE ORDINANCE TYPICALLY GOVERNS. ALSO, THE MUNICIPAL
CODE MAY NOT REFLECT RULES OR OTHER REGULATIONS PROMULGATED UNDER THE
AUTHORITY OF THE CODE, INCLUDING TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS. FOR MORE
INFORMATION CONTACT THE CITY.
Chapter 1.01 CODE ADOPTION
1.01.010 Adoption

Pursuant to the provisions of Utah Code § 17-53-208, the county legislative body of White City
adopted the "Salt Lake County Code of Ordinances, 1986," as compiled, edited and published by
Book Publishing Company, Seattle, Washington.

Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-701 the White City City Council hereby adopts the code as it
existed on February 5, 2017.

1.01.020 Title--Citation--Reference

This code shall be known as the "White City Code" and it shall be sufficient to refer to the code as
the "White City Code" in any prosecution for the violation of any provision therein or in any
proceeding at law or equity. It shall be sufficient to designate any ordinance adding to, amending,
correcting or repealing all or any portion thereof as an addition to, amendment to, correction or
repeal of the "White City Code." Whenever a reference is made to this code as the "White City
Code" or to any portion thereof, the reference shall apply to all amendments, corrections and
additions made before, as of or after the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter.

1.01.030 Ordinance Amendments--Change In Form Of County Government

The adoption of these amendments and the change in form of government shall not affect any
right, duty, penalty, action, or proceeding commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances
repealed or amended.

1.01.040 Effective Date Of This Code

This code shall be effective on the following dates.

     A. As White City Township Planning District under Salt Lake County on [DATE]; H.B. 363
        (1997).

     B. As an incorporated Metro-Township after May 12, 2015; S.B. 199 (2015)

    C. As an incorporated City on May 1, 2024; H.B. 35 (2024).


Chapter 1.04 GENERAL PROVISIONS

1.04.010 Definitions And Rules Of Construction

    A. In the construction of the revised ordinances set out in this code, and all ordinances
       amendatory thereof, the following definitions shall be observed, unless such construction
       would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the county council, or repugnant to the context
       of the ordinance.
            1. "Absent" means for the purposes of the city emergency plan, not physically present
               and not able to be communicated with via any means for twelve hours.
            2. "Board of health" means the Salt Lake County board of health.
            3. "Business" means any activity, operation, enterprise or calling referred to in this code
               for which a license is required.
4. "Central services" include those services and activities provided by the Greater Salt
   Lake Municipal Services District or other property designated entity to support all city
   government activity including activities related to purchasing, contracting, real estate,
   claims, management information and data processing, facility management, fleet,
   accounting, auditing, legal, and general countywide administration.
5. "City" means White City.
6. "City council" or "council" means the City Council of White City, Utah.
7. "County" means Salt Lake County and may also be construed to mean the portions of
   Salt Lake County, Utah, outside the limits of the incorporated cities or towns therein.
8. "Attorney," "city attorney” means the appointed attorney of White City, Utah.
9. "City mayor" or "mayor" means the elected executive officer and mayor of White City,
   Utah.
10. "City recorder" or "recorder" means the appointed recorder of White City, Utah.
11. "Law enforcement” means the agency designated by the city to provide law
  enforcement services to White City, Utah.
12. "City treasurer" or "treasurer" means the appointed treasurer of White City, Utah.
13. "Citywide" policy, procedure or regulation means those lawful policies required to be
  approved by the council and implemented by the mayor or officers of the city that
  address matters of administration and management that impact all subdivisions of city
  government including, but not limited to, matters related to contracting, purchasing,
  personnel administration, central services, budgeting, debt financing, relations
  between offices, and other matters authorized by law for city legislative bodies.
14. "Disaster" means a situation causing or threatening to cause widespread damage,
  social disruption, or injury or loss of life or property resulting from attack, internal
  disturbance, natural phenomenon, or technological hazard and includes earthquakes,
  storms, tornadoes, flood, landslide, avalanche, fire, drought or epidemic.
15. "Fire department" means the agency designated by the city to provide firefighting and
  medical services to White City, Utah.
16. "Governing body" means the city council for legislative matters and the mayor for
  executive matters.
17. "Health department" means the Salt Lake County health department or designated
  local health department..
18. "Highway" or "public highway" means any road, street, lane, court, place, viaduct,
  tunnel, culvert, bridge, alley or other public way situated within the city, laid out or
  erected as such by the public, or dedicated, abandoned or open to the public, or made
  such in any action for the partition of real property, or such other public property so
  designated by any ordinance or statute, and includes the entire area within the right-
  of-way.
19. "Interim successors" means the replacement for an unavailable or absent elected
  official as a result of a unavailability or unwillingness to serve.
20. "Knowingly" imports only a knowledge that facts exist that bring the act or omission
  within the provisions of this code. It does not require any knowledge of the
  unlawfulness of such act or omission.
21. "Law" means and denotes applicable federal law, the Constitution and statutes of the
  state of Utah, the ordinances of White City and, when appropriate, any and all rules
  and regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.
22. “License” includes any certificate or license that Emigration Canyon may issue.
23. "License official" means the director of the White City planning and development
  services division or designee.
24. "Local emergency" means the proclamation invoking special powers and the
  emergency operation plan as a result of a disaster or emergency, except the Mayor
  may not exercise powers to respond to a pandemic or an epidemic.
25. "Maliciously" or "malice" means a wish to vex, annoy or injure another person, or an
  intent to do a wrongful act, established either by proof or by presumption of law.
26. "Owner," applied to a building or land, means and includes any part owner, joint
  owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or less of the whole or of any part of the building
  or land.
27. “May” means an action that is authorized or permissive.
28. “May not” means an action that is not authorized and is prohibited.
29. “Offense” means any act, action, or conduct prohibited by this Code or the failure to
  perform any acts required by this Code.
30. “Order” means any White City order including a stop work order, notice of non-
  compliance, clean-up order, abatement action, revocation or suspension of a license
  or permit, assessment of charges or costs, notice of zoning violation, seizure of any
  animal property, Code enforcement order relating to the occupancy of any structure or
  building, any written disciplinary action, the assessment of any costs or non-criminal
  penalty, or any other action seeking the cessation of any business or operation.
31. “Owner,” applied to a building or land, means and includes any part owner, joint
  owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or less of the whole or of any part of the building
  or land.
32. "Person" means any natural person, firm, joint venture, joint stock company,
  partnership, association, club, company, corporation, bodies public, business trust,
  organization, or the manager, lessee, agent officer or employee of any of them, or any
  individual, partnership, association, corporation, or group of individuals, however styled
  or designated, and any other entity that is recognized by law as the subject of rights or
  duties, or who represents or is the agent of such person.
33. "Personal property" means and includes money, goods, chattels, things in action and
  evidences of debt.
34. "Property" means and includes real and personal property.
35. "Real property" means and includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
36. "State" means the state of Utah.
37. "Tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, mean and include any person
  who occupies the whole or any part of such building, either alone or with others.
            38. "Willfully," when applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted, means and
              implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission referred
              to. It does not require any intent to violate law or to injure another or to acquire any
              advantage.
            39. "Written" means and includes printed, typewritten, mimeographed, multigraphed,
              photocopied, printed or otherwise processed by computer or other electronic means,
              or otherwise reproduced in permanent visible form.
            40. "Year" means a calendar year unless specified otherwise.

    B. Rules of Construction.
            1. Mere language changes are not intended to reflect changes in the substance or
               meaning of the ordinances.
            2. The singular number includes the plural.
            3. Words used in the present tense include the past and future tenses and vice versa,
               unless manifestly inapplicable.
            4. Words used in the masculine gender comprehend the feminine and neuter.
            5. The term "may" is permissive; the terms "must" and "shall" are each mandatory.

1.04.020 Interpretation Of Language

All words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the
language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and
appropriate meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar and
appropriate meaning.

1.04.030 Computation Of Time

Except when otherwise provided, the time within which an act is required to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last day, if Saturday, Sunday or a holiday,
in which case the last day shall be the next following business day. When the period of time
is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded.

1.04.040 Liability Of Employers And Agents To Penalty For Violation Of Ordinances

When the provisions of an ordinance prohibit the commission or omission of any act, the person
doing the prohibited act or omitting the directed act and the employer, if the act or omission is done
within the course and scope of employment, and all other persons aiding or abetting therein, shall
be guilty of the offense described and subject to the penalty prescribed for the offense.

1.04.050 Severability

The City Council of White City, Utah, hereby declares that the council would have passed these
revised ordinances and each section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective
of the fact that one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional, void, or unlawful.
Chapter 1.06 CITY HOLIDAYS AND OFFICE HOURS

1.06.010 Office Hours

    A. All offices, departments, and agencies of the city shall keep their offices open for the
       transaction of public business between the hours of nine a.m. to five p.m., Monday through
       Friday. In addition to regular office hours, for those offices and agencies in which the normal
       transaction of public business requires other hours of operation, services shall be provided on
       such days and such hours as the public business necessitates.

    B. All full-time city employees shall work forty hours per week. Work schedules in offices,
       departments, and agencies shall be established pursuant to city personnel policies.

1.06.020 Holidays

    A. The following days are legal holidays during which City offices are closed:
        The First day of January                            New Year's Day
        The Third Monday of January                         Martin Luther King Day
        The Third Monday and February                       Presidents' Day
        The Last Monday in May                              Memorial Day
        The Fourth Day of July                              Independence Day
        The Twenty-fourth Day of July                       Pioneer Day
        The First Monday of September                       Labor Day
        The Eleventh Day of November                        Veterans Day
        The Fourth Thursday of November                     Thanksgiving Day
        The Fourth Friday of November                       Day After Thanksgiving
        The Twenty Fifth Day of December                    Christmas Day

    B. In the event that a holiday falls on a Saturday, it shall be observed on the preceding Friday. In
       the event that the holiday falls on a Sunday, it shall be observed on the following Monday.

    C. Where the public business requires, some county offices may be required to remain open for
       business on legal holidays.
1.06.030 Legal Delays

Any act which is authorized or required to be performed on a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday, when
the city offices are closed, may be performed on the next business day. No liability or loss of rights
of any kind may result from that delay.



Chapter 1.12 GENERAL PENALTY

1.12.010 Penalty For Violation Of Code Provisions
Any person found to have violated any provision or provisions of an ordinance included in these
revised ordinances, or in ordinances hereafter enacted, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
or a civil violation of city code, and punished as provided by city code or state criminal code for
Class B misdemeanors. The city has sole discretion in deciding whether to file a civil or criminal
case for the violation of any of its ordinances.

1.12.020 Liability Of Employers And Agents To Penalty For Violation Of Ordinances

When the provisions of an ordinance prohibit the commission or omission of any act, the person
doing the prohibited act or omitting the directed act and the employer, if the act or omission is done
within the course and scope of employment, and all other persons aiding or abetting therein, shall
be guilty of the offense described and subject to the penalty prescribed for the offense.

1.12.030 No Liability On Municipality

None of the provisions of this Code shall create any civil liability on the municipality, its officers, or
employees whether or not the Code imposes mandatory or directional duties and whether or no
the municipality, its officer or employees perform or do not perform such duties.

1.12.040 Presumption Of Liability For Certain Violations

The occupant and owner of any premises upon which a violation of any provision of this code or
of any White City ordinance and the owner of any object or material placed or remaining anywhere
in violation of any provision of this code or of any White City ordinance shall be presumed to be
responsible for the violation so evidenced and subject to the penalty provided therefore.

1.12.050 Penalties Not To Excuse Abatement of Prohibited Conditions

The application of any penalty under this chapter shall not constitute the condoning or legalizing
of any prohibited condition or prevent the abatement or enforced removal of such condition by any
lawful means available to Emigration Canyon including Title 12, Code Enforcement.


Chapter 1.16 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING

1.16.010 Short Title

This chapter shall be known as the "White City Administrative Procedures Ordinance."

1.16.020 Purpose

The city council finds that the enforcement of the White City ordinances, policies, regulations, and
applicable state statutes is an important public function vital to the protection of the public's health,
safety, welfare, and quality of life. The city council further finds that providing a hearing to city
employees, citizens, and city agencies relating to the enforcement of ordinances, policies,
regulations, and applicable state statutes through an administrative procedures process
conducted by independent, law-trained administrative judges comports with basic due process,
simplifies and expedites hearings benefitting the city and citizens, minimizes the impact on the
judicial system, and provides flexibility in both the hearing process and in determining remedies
and responsibilities.
1.16.030 Scope

The provisions of this chapter may be applied to any violations of the White City ordinances,
policies, regulations, and applicable state statutes which occur within unincorporated White City
or relate to such activities subject to White City operations and jurisdiction. No judicial review shall
be available to any citizen or city agency if the provisions of this chapter are not followed. Failure
to timely request and participate in an administrative review under this chapter shall bar any action
in the state or federal courts by an aggrieved citizen, city employee, or city agency.

1.16.040 Other Remedies And Criminal Prosecution

The city shall have sole discretion in deciding whether to pursue civil remedies or
seek administrative enforcement for the violation of any of its ordinances, policies, regulations, and
applicable state statutes. This chapter shall not limit the powers of the attorney of White City in
pursuing criminal charges for the violation of any city ordinances or state statutes, in addition to
any civil action the city may take unless prohibited by state statute.

1.16.050 Definitions Applicable To Title Generally

In this chapter the following words and phrases are defined as follows:

    A. "City Enforcement Action" or "Action" means any action by the city seeking compliance with
       any ordinance, policy, regulation, applicable state statutes, and includes a notice of violation,
       administrative citation, departmental determination, board findings/order, stop work order,
       notice of non-compliance, clean-up order, abatement action, revocation/suspension of a
       license or permit, assessment of charges or costs, order relating to the occupancy or use of
       any structure, zoning violation, seizure of any animal or property, and any other action by a
       city agency seeking the cessation of any business or operation or the assessment of any costs
       or non-criminal penalty. This term shall not include any criminal prosecution.

    B. "Administrative Law Judge" means a person appointed by the mayor or his designee to preside
       over administrative hearings. An administrative law judge must be an attorney licensed to
       practice law in the State of Utah and must not be an employee of the city.

    C. "Administrative Hearing" means a hearing held pursuant to the procedures established by this
       chapter.

    D. "City" means the City of White City, Utah.

    E. "City Council" means the City Council of White City.

    F. "Director" means the mayor or his designee and includes the division administrator, assistant
       division administrator, or director of an agency.

    G. "Enforcement Official" means any person authorized by the city to enforce violations of the
       White City Code of Ordinances, policies, regulations, or applicable state codes including, but
       not limited to, zoning officers, police officers, building inspection officials, animal control
       officers, and health department officials.

    H. "Mayor" means the Mayor of White City or the Mayor's designee.

    I. "Person" means any natural person, firm, joint venture, joint stock company, partnership,
       association, club, company, corporation, business trust, organization, or the manager, lessee,
       agent, officer, or employee of any of them, or any other entity that is recognized by law as the
       subject of rights or duties, or who represents or is the agent of such person.

    J. "Property Owner" means the record owner of real property as shown on the records of the Salt
       Lake County Recorder.

    K. "Responsible Person" or "Responsible Party" means the person(s) determined by the city who
       is responsible for causing or maintaining a violation of the White City Code of Ordinances,
       policies, regulations, or applicable state codes. The term "responsible person" shall include,
       but is not limited to, a property owner, agent, tenant, lessee, occupant, business owner,
       business manager or employee, architect, builder, contractor, or other person who individually
       or together with another person is responsible for the violation of any provision of the White
       City Code of Ordinances, policies, regulations, or applicable state codes.

1.16.060 Service Of Notice Requirements

    A. Whenever a notice is required to be given under this chapter it shall be in the form of a
       notice approved by the director and the notice shall be served by one of the following methods:

            1. Personal service;

            2. Regular mail, postage prepaid, to the last known address of a responsible person;

            3. Posting the notice conspicuously on or in front of the property that is the subject of the
               action.

            4. Publication in a newspaper of general circulation if service has not been accomplished
               after reasonable efforts to comply Subsections 1 through 3; or

            5. As directed by the administrative judge.

    B. Failure of a responsible person to actually receive notice shall not affect the validity of
       any action taken hereunder if notice has been served in the manner set forth above.

    C. Service by regular mail in the manner set forth above shall be deemed served on the fourth
       day after the date of mailing.

    D. The failure of a person, other than a responsible person, to be served notice in accordance
       with this section shall not affect the validity of any proceeding taken hereunder.

1.16.070 Direction To Adopt Rules

The mayor shall establish rules for administrative hearings; appoint the hearing officer from the
pool of approved administrative law judges, or, in the case of a conflict, appoint an outside hearing
officer; provide for the notification of the involved parties; and establish guidelines and operating
procedures for administrative hearings, including the type of pre-hearing discovery that may be
allowed.

1.16.080 Subpoenas

The administrative law judge is empowered to issue subpoenas for the production of documents
and things and to compel the appearance of witnesses in the pending action. It shall be unlawful
for any person to willfully refuse or fail to obey a subpoena issued for an administrative hearing. A
violation of this section shall be a class B misdemeanor.

1.16.090 Request For Administrative Hearing

    A. A responsible person served with a "city enforcement action" and any city agency shall have
       the right to request an administrative hearing.
    B. A party who has been adversely affected by an action by a city agency may also request an
       administrative hearing. Adverse effect may arise from:
            1. Any decision affecting the employment status, compensation, or treatment of an
               employee of the city;
            2. Denial, revocation, or termination of any license issued by the city;
            3. Any decision relating to the zoning or permitted use of real property located within the
               unincorporated limits of the city;
            4. Any decision relating to the award or failure to award a bid or proposal but which action
               must be brought within the time limitations and grounds set forth in the city ordinances
               and policies governing procurement;
            5. Any notice of violation, animal seizure, assessment of costs, or other action taken by
               animal services; or
            6. Such other violation, assessment, or action as designated by city ordinance, policy,
               regulation, or state law.
    C. The request for an administrative hearing shall be made in writing and delivered to the White
       City mayor's office.
    D. The written request for hearing must be received by the mayor within fifteen calendar days of
       the date the "city enforcement action" is served upon the responsible party. Failure to request
       an administrative hearing within fifteen calendar days from the date of service shall constitute
       a waiver of the right to an administrative hearing and of the right to an appeal of the "city
       enforcement action" to any state or federal court or agency.
    E. Within fifteen days of the issuance of a "city enforcement action," the city may request an
       administrative hearing for the purposed of compelling a responsible person to comply with the
       action.
    F. If a responsible person fails to request a hearing after being issued a "city enforcement action"
       the corrective action detailed within the action shall be considered the final administrative
       order and the person shall be deemed to have waived any appeal of that order.

1.16.100 Notification Of Administrative Hearing

    A. As soon as practicable after receiving the written notice of the request for an administrative
       hearing, the mayor shall appoint an administrative law judge who shall schedule a date, time,
       and place for the administrative hearing.

    B. Written notice of the date, time, and place of the administrative hearing shall be served on the
       responsible person as soon as practicable prior to its date.
   C. The notice shall be served by any of the methods of service set forth in Section 1.16.060 of
      this chapter.

1.16.110 Powers Of Administrative Law Judge

   A. An administrative law judge shall have authority to set the date, time, and place for holding an
      administrative hearing.

   B. An administrative law judge may issue a scheduling order to guide the conduct of the case, to
      set the limits of any pre-hearing discovery, to provide for the identification of witnesses and
      their expected testimony, to list and exchange proposed exhibits, to approve stipulations
      regarding facts, applicable law, foundation to exhibits, and to govern such other matters related
      to hearing of the matter as deemed appropriate.

   C. The administrative law judge holding a hearing shall arrange for the recording of any hearing.

1.16.120 Rules Of Discovery And Evidence For Administrative Hearings

   A. The administrative law judge shall determine the scope of any pre-hearing discovery.

   B. The formal rules of evidence and of civil procedure adopted by the courts shall not be applied
      in any administrative hearings; however, the administrative law judge shall determine the
      admissibility and weight to be accorded any evidence.

   C. The administrative law judge shall issue a written ruling within forty-five days after the
      conclusion of the hearing.

1.16.130 Appeal

   A. Any responsible person or city agency adversely affected by a final administrative order issued
      pursuant to a hearing may file a petition for review in the Third Judicial District Court of the
      State of Utah in accordance with the Utah Rules of Civil Procedure.

   B. A petition for review shall be barred unless it is filed within thirty days after the administrative
      order is final, unless a statute provides otherwise.

   C. The record of the administrative hearing including minutes, findings, orders and, if available, a
      true and correct transcript of the proceeding shall be transmitted to the reviewing court by the
      party filing the appeal and the costs of producing the record, including any transcripts, shall be
      borne by the party filing the appeal. If the proceeding was tape recorded, a transcript of such
      tape recording shall be deemed a true and correct transcript for purposes of this subsection.

   D. The filing of a petition does not stay execution of an administrative order. Before filing a petition,
      a responsible person may request the administrative law judge to stay an administrative order.
      Upon receipt of a request to stay, the administrative law judge may order the administrative
      order to be stayed pending district court review if the administrative law judge finds such stay
      to be in the best interest of the city.
                                      WHITE CITY, UTAH
  DATE: JUNE 4, 2026                                            ORDINANCE NO. 2026-O-01

          AN ORDINANCE ENACTING TITLE 11, CHAPTER 34 “BICYCLES,
            MICROMOBILITY DEVICES, E-BIKES, AND E-SCOOTERS”

WHEREAS, the White City Council (“Council”) finds that regulating bicycles, electronic bicycles
(e-bikes), electric scooters (e-scooters), and other micromobility devices promotes public safety,
health, and welfare on streets, sidewalks, parks, public trails, and other public grounds while
facilitating sustainable mobility and active transportation; and

WHEREAS, this ordinance complies with and supplements Utah state law, including Utah Code
§§ 41-6a-102, 41-6a-1115.5, and amendments enacted by HB 381 (effective May 6, 2026, with
additional provisions effective May 5, 2027), as well as regulations governing motor assisted
scooters and electric personal assistive mobility devices; and

WHEREAS, local authorities are authorized under Utah Code § 41-6a-1115.5(3) to adopt
additional rules or restrictions on e-bikes (by class) and other micromobility devices on sidewalks,
paths, or trails; and

WHEREAS, the Council desires to establish clear, consistent, and enforceable rules for the safe
operation of bicycles, e-bikes, e-scooters, and micromobility devices, while providing appropriate
exemptions and protections for electric personal assistive mobility devices used by individuals
with disabilities, and creating a framework for any future shared mobility programs; and

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the White City Council as follows:
Section 1. Title 11 of the White City Municipal Code is hereby amended by enacting Chapter 34
“Bicycles, Micromobility Devices, E-Bikes, and E-Scooters” as stated in Attachment A.
Section 2. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this ordinance is
held to be unconstitutional or invalid for any reason, such decision shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portions of this ordinance or the application thereof to other persons and
circumstances.
Section 3. Effective Date. This ordinance shall take effect upon publication or as otherwise
required by law.

ADOPTED AND APPROVED at a duly called meeting on this 4th day of June 2026.

                               ***Signatures on Following Page***
WHITE CITY COUNCIL

By: _______________________________
       Allan Perry, Mayor


ATTEST:

_________________________________
Rori L. Andreason, City Administrator/Recorder


Voting:
Mayor Perry voting                 ___
Council Member Mahoney voting      ___
Council Member Huish voting        ___
Council Member Shelton voting      ___
Council Member Price voting        ___
                                    ATTACHMENT A
                           TITLE 11 – VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
      CHAPTER 34 –MICROMOBILITY DEVICES, E-BIKES, AND E-SCOOTERS

11.34.10 Definitions
As used in this chapter:

   A. “Active Transportation” means personal transportation in an active way where an
      individual self-propels or is electronically-assisted.

   B. “Bicycle” means every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
      ride, having two (2) tandem wheels either of which is over twelve inches (12") in diameter,
      or as otherwise defined in Utah Code § 41-6a-102.

   C. “Bike Corral” means a bicycle and micromobility device parking facility that can
      accommodate a large group of devices, typically installed on-street in lieu of a single
      vehicle parking stall.

   D. “Bike Lane” means a portion of a roadway designated for preferential or exclusive use by
      bicycles, e-bikes, or e-scooters that is distinguished from that portion of the roadway to be
      used by motor vehicles by a painted stripe, pavement markings, flexible post delineators,
      or signage.

   E. “Bike Rack” means a secure object to which bicycles and micromobility devices can be
      attached for orderly parking and securing purposes.

   F. “City” means White City, Utah.

   G. “Concessionaire” or “Operator” means a person or business with whom the City has
      contracted or permitted to provide shared mobility device services within the City.

   H. “Dismount Zone” means a designated area posted as prohibited for micromobility devices
      to operate. Persons are required to dismount from their device and walk through the area.

   I. “Electric Power-Assisted Bicycle” or “E-bike” means a vehicle having two (2) tandem
      wheels, or two (2) parallel wheels and one (1) forward wheel, any two of which are not
      less than twelve (12) inches in diameter, that is designed to be operated by human power
      with the assistance of an electric motor that has a power output of not more than seven
      hundred fifty (750) watts and that: (i) is incapable of propelling the vehicle at a speed of
      more than twenty (20) miles per hour on motor power alone; and (ii) disengages or ceases
      to function when the vehicle’s brakes are applied. An e-bike is not a motor vehicle for
      purposes of this Chapter. E-bikes are classified as follows consistent with Utah Code § 41-
      6a-102:

           1. Class 1: pedal-assist only, ceases to provide assistance when the bicycle reaches 20
              mph.
       2. Class 2: may be used exclusively to propel the bicycle, and is not capable of
          providing assistance when the bicycle reaches 20 mph.

       3. Class 3: pedal-assist only, ceases to provide assistance when the bicycle reaches 28
          mph, and equipped with a speedometer.

       4. Programmable electric assisted bicycle: capable of being programmed by the user
          to function as Class 1, 2, or 3.

J. “Electric Power-Assisted Scooter” or “E-scooter” or “Motor Assisted Scooter” means
   a self-propelled device with at least two wheels in contact with the ground, a braking
   system capable of stopping the unit under typical operating conditions, an electric motor
   (typically not exceeding 750 watts depending on applicable state definition), handlebars
   and a deck or seat design for a person to stand, sit, or straddle while operating, designed to
   be propelled by human power alone or with electric assist, and capable of a maximum
   speed of twenty (20) miles per hour on a paved level surface. An e-scooter is not a motor
   vehicle for purposes of this Chapter. This definition does not include bicycles, e-bikes,
   motorcycles, mopeds, motor driven cycles, or electric personal assistive mobility devices.

K. “Electric Personal Assistive Mobility Device” or “EPAMD” or “Powered
   Wheelchair” means a self-balancing, two non-tandem wheeled device or powered
   wheelchair designed to transport only one person with a mobility disability, powered by an
   electric propulsion system, with a maximum speed of less than twenty (20) miles per hour.
   EPAMDs and powered wheelchairs used by individuals with mobility disabilities are
   exempt from the operational restrictions of this chapter applicable to micromobility devices
   and shall be permitted on sidewalks, shared-use paths, and other public ways in accordance
   with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and Utah law. Nothing in this chapter
   shall be construed to prohibit or unduly restrict their use.

L. “Micromobility Device” means a wide range of small, lightweight vehicles operating at
   speeds typically below twenty (20) miles per hour and driven by users personally.
   Micromobility devices include, but are not limited to, bicycles, scooters, e-bikes, e-
   scooters, electric skateboards, hoverboards, segways, one-wheels, and similar personal
   transportation devices, but do not include gas-powered scooters, motorcycles, mopeds, or
   other gas-powered devices, or EPAMDs/powered wheelchairs as defined above.

M. “Shared Mobility Device” means a bicycle, e-bike, e-scooter, or similar micromobility
   device made available to the public for rent or hire through a shared mobility device
   program. This definition does not include motorcycles, mopeds, or any power-driven
   device used by individuals with mobility disabilities for the purpose of locomotion.

N. “Shared Mobility Device Program” means the offering of either docked or dockless
   shared mobility devices for rent or hire to the public. The person or entity responsible for
   the operation, oversight, and management of such a program is the “operator” or
   “concessionaire.”

O. “Shared-Use Path” or “Trail” means a concrete, asphalt, or hardened surface corridor
   that accommodates one or two-way traffic and is used for both public recreational purposes
       and active transportation, or a natural surface trail primarily used for walking, hiking,
       biking, horseback riding or similar recreational purposes.

   P. “Sidewalk” means a paved or surfaced area, paralleling a street, that is primarily used as
      a public pedestrian right-of-way.

   Q. “Operator” means any person operating a bicycle, e-bike, e-scooter, or micromobility
      device.

11.34.20 Duties of Parents and Guardians
It is unlawful for the parents or guardian of any child or the guardian of any ward to authorize or
knowingly permit any child or ward to ride, operate, possess, or use a bicycle or micromobility
device in violation of the provisions of this chapter.

11.34.30 General Operation – Traffic Laws Apply

   A. The provisions of this chapter applicable to bicycles and micromobility devices shall apply
      whenever a bicycle or micromobility device is operated upon any street, sidewalk, trail, or
      public property in the City, subject to exceptions stated herein or unless otherwise posted.

   B. Every person operating a bicycle or micromobility device upon a roadway, public parking
      lot, bike lane, or other public vehicular right-of-way in the City shall be granted the same
      rights and shall be subject to the same responsibilities applicable to a motor vehicle
      operator by the laws of the State of Utah and City ordinances, except where provisions by
      their nature can have no application to micromobility devices, or where this Chapter directs
      otherwise. Micromobility devices operated on sidewalks or trails have the same
      responsibilities as a pedestrian, except as otherwise provided.

   C. Any peace officer operating a micromobility device in the course and scope of official
      duties is exempt from certain requirements if responding to an emergency call, engaged in
      rescue operations, or in immediate pursuit of a violator of the law. This does not relieve
      the officer from the duty to operate with due regard for the safety of all persons.

11.34.40 Age Restrictions, Helmets, and sobriety

   A. Riders under twenty-one (21) years of age must wear a properly fitted CPSC-approved
      helmet when operating an e-bike or e-scooter on any public road, path, or trail.

   B. No person under eight (8) years of age may operate an e-bike or e-scooter with the motor
      engaged on any public property, highway, path, sidewalk, or trail.

   C. Persons under fourteen (14) years of age may not operate an e-bike or e-scooter with the
      motor engaged on any public property without direct supervision of a parent or guardian
      (supervision and certificate rules per state law effective 2027).

   D. No person under sixteen (16) years of age may operate a Class 3 e-bike.
   E. E-scooter riders shall be at least eighteen (18) years of age. An owner or operator of a
      shared e-scooter shall not authorize or knowingly permit a person under eighteen (18) to
      operate it.

   F. No person shall operate a bicycle, e-bike, e-scooter, or micromobility device while under
      the influence of alcohol or any drug to a degree that renders the operator incapable of safely
      operating a motor vehicle (Utah Code § 41-6a-502 and § 41-6a-1115.5).

11.34.50 Required Equipment and Safe Operation

   A. All micromobility devices must be in safe operating condition with working brakes that
      allow the device to stop when engaged.

   B. Every micromobility device when in use at nighttime (between one hour after sunset and
      one hour before sunrise) shall be equipped with a front lamp emitting a white light visible
      from at least five hundred (500) feet to the front, and a red reflector or rear red lamp visible
      from fifty (50) to three hundred (300) feet to the rear when in front of lawful upper beams
      of headlamps on a motor vehicle.

   C. All e-scooters and e-bikes shall be equipped with a working bell, horn, or other sound
      mechanism (but not a siren or whistle).

   D. No micromobility device shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the number
      for which it is designed and equipped.

   E. Every person operating a micromobility device shall maintain control, keep at least one (1)
      hand on the handlebar at all times, and shall not carry anything that prevents full control or
      obstructs vision.

   F. While operating an e-scooter or e-bike, riders shall not use a handheld wireless
      communication device in a manner that prevents use of both hands for control.

   G. Riders must yield the right-of-way to pedestrians at all times and yield to other trail users
      as appropriate. When approaching pedestrians from behind on a shared path or trail, riders
      shall reduce speed and give audible warning prior to cautiously overtaking and passing.

11.34.60 Speed
No person shall operate a bicycle or micromobility device at a speed greater than is reasonable
and prudent under the conditions then existing, or on a street at a speed greater than the posted
automobile speed limit, or on a trail at a speed greater than any posted micromobility device
speed limit, nor in a negligent manner or at a speed on sidewalks or paths as to impose danger to
pedestrian traffic. Maximum speed on shared-use paths is ten to twenty (10–20) mph depending
on conditions and signage.

11.34.70 Obedience to Traffic Control Devices and Roadway Rules

   A. Operators shall obey all official traffic signals, signs, and control devices applicable to
      vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   B. No person shall ride a micromobility device on a roadway against the flow of motorized
      vehicular traffic, except where permitted by official signs or markings.

   C. Every person riding upon a two-way roadway is entitled to use the lane appropriate for the
      intended destination, including the right-most lane. Riders may use the full lane if it is not
      wide enough for a car and micromobility device to safely share. On one-way roadways,
      operation in any existing lane is permitted.

   D. The rider of a micromobility device traveling at a rate of speed that delays following
      vehicles shall, when it is unlawful or unsafe for the following vehicle to pass, move as far
      to the right as practicable (or left in left lane of one-way), except when within fifty (50)
      feet of an intersection.

   E. Where a bike lane is present, the rider shall use that lane and shall not use the roadway
      except when the lane is of insufficient width, or due to a safety threat.

11.34.80 Emerging from Alley, Driveway, or Building
The operator emerging from an alley, driveway, or building shall, upon approaching a sidewalk
or sidewalk area extending across any alleyway, yield the right of way to all pedestrians
approaching on the sidewalk, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right of way to all
vehicles approaching on the roadway.

11.34.90 Clinging to Vehicles; Group Riding; Carrying Articles

   A. No person riding upon any bicycle or micromobility device shall attach the same or
      themselves to any vehicle upon a roadway.

   B. Persons operating bicycles or micromobility devices upon a roadway shall not ride more
      than two (2) abreast except upon bike paths of twelve feet (12') or more. When a vehicle
      approaches from behind in the same lane, riders shall return to single file.

   C. No person operating a bicycle or micromobility device shall carry any packages, bundles,
      or articles which prevent the operator from keeping at least one hand on the handlebar and
      maintaining safe control at all times.

11.34.100 Permitted and Prohibited Uses – Sidewalks, Trails, Parks, and Public Grounds

   A. Public Roads/Streets: Bicycles, e-bikes, and e-scooters are permitted subject to all
      applicable traffic laws, state age/helmet requirements, equipment rules, and safe operation.

   B. Sidewalks: Operation of e-bikes and e-scooters is prohibited on all sidewalks within White
      City to protect pedestrian safety, except that devices may be walked (dismounted) on
      sidewalks. Traditional bicycles may be operated on sidewalks only at a safe walking speed
      yielding to pedestrians, unless otherwise posted. When a sidewalk is not present and a
      pedestrian is in the bike lane, the micromobility rider shall yield to the pedestrian.

   C. Public Trails, Bikeways, and Shared-Use Paths: Bicycles, Class 1 and Class 2 e-bikes,
      and e-scooters are permitted only on trails and paths designated for bicycle or
      micromobility use, unless specifically prohibited by City signage under direction of the
      Parks and Recreation Director or equivalent. Class 3 e-bikes may be restricted or prohibited
      on specific soft-surface, narrow, or high-pedestrian trails if posted. Riders must yield to
      pedestrians and non-motorized users, operate at a safe speed, and follow all posted rules.
      Micromobility devices shall follow shared-use pathway rules and speed maximums of
      bicycles unless otherwise posted.

   D. Parks and Public Grounds: Bicycles, e-bikes, and e-scooters are permitted only on
      designated paved or improved trails/paths within parks and public grounds. Operation is
      prohibited on grass, landscaped areas, playgrounds, or off-trail surfaces to protect park
      resources and public safety. Riders must stay on designated routes, yield to pedestrians,
      and operate responsibly. No operation is allowed in areas posted as prohibited or in
      dismount zones.

   E. Private Property: Operation on private property is prohibited without the permission of
      the owner of the property.

11.34.110 Parking and Abandonment

   A. No person shall park a bicycle or micromobility device upon any street outside of
      designated parking areas or in such a manner as to obstruct vehicular travel. No person
      shall park upon a sidewalk in such a manner as to cause obstruction to pedestrian or
      wheelchair traffic.

   B. Parking on the grass at any City park is prohibited. No person shall park on landscaping
      areas in a manner that causes damage to trees, shrubs, or plantings, or on private property
      without permission.

   C. Where bicycle racks, corrals, or designated docking stations are available, they shall be
      used for orderly parking.

   D. Any shared mobility device that is not in use shall be secured to a permitted dock, rack, or
      corral or otherwise placed upright on a hard surface in a location that does not impede
      pedestrian or vehicular traffic, access to buildings, bus stops, ADA ramps, or transit
      platforms. Prohibited parking locations include, but are not limited to: multi-use paths,
      vehicle travel lanes, bikeways, vehicle parking spaces, within fifteen (15) feet of building
      access/egress or traffic signal poles, within thirty (30) feet of ADA ramps, within landscape
      beds, or any other zone the City has determined and posted parking is prohibited.

   E. Abandoned or improperly parked shared mobility devices that impede traffic, egress, or
      access may be relocated or impounded by the City or its designee at the owner’s or
      operator’s expense. The City may assess reasonable relocation, storage, and administrative
      fees.

11.34.120 Shared Mobility Device Programs (Optional)

   A. No person shall operate a shared mobility device program or permit shared mobility
      devices owned or controlled by such person to be in service for hire upon the streets,
      sidewalks, trails, or public grounds of the City unless such person is authorized to do so
      under a permit, license, or agreement obtained from the City. The City Council may by
      resolution or agreement establish fees, conditions, insurance requirements, fleet size limits,
      geo-fencing for sensitive areas (e.g., schools, parks, downtown core), rebalancing/response
      times (typically within two to four hours for safety complaints or abandoned devices), data
      sharing, and other reasonable regulations to protect public safety, prevent clutter, and
      ensure equitable access.

   B. Any permitted shared mobility program shall: (1) maintain a local fleet manager or 24/7
      contact available to respond to City and public complaints; (2) provide a 24-hour customer
      service phone number and email; (3) regularly inspect, clean, and repair all devices; (4)
      make unsafe or reported devices unavailable and remove from rights-of-way promptly; (5)
      maintain required insurance naming the City as additional insured (minimum commercial
      general liability $1,000,000 per occurrence / $5,000,000 aggregate or as otherwise required
      by the permit); (6) indemnify the City as required by the permit agreement; and (7) comply
      with all applicable federal, state, and local data privacy laws.

   C. The City may deny, suspend, or revoke any permit for failure to comply with permit
      conditions, operating in a manner that endangers public health or safety, or other good
      cause. The City does not assume liability for issuing or denying permits or for the operation
      of any shared program.

11.34.130 Bicycle and E-Bike Registration (Optional See 11.32)

   A. It is recommended, but not mandatory, that all residents register their bicycle or e-bike with
      the Unified Police Department or designated agent. Registration is free of charge. The
      Police Department may issue a decal sticker bearing a license number to be firmly attached
      to the frame. Valid proof of ownership is required. The Police Department will maintain a
      database to assist in recovery of stolen bicycles and e-bikes.

   B. Bicycle dealers in the City are encouraged to assist purchasers with registration at the time
      of sale.

11.34.140 Enforcement and Penalties

   A. Violations of this chapter are criminal infractions or civil code violations enforceable by
      citation or notice of violation. Fine amounts shall be established by the City Council in its
      consolidated fee schedule.

   B. Non-compliant, unsafe, or abandoned bicycles, e-bikes, e-scooters, or micromobility
      devices may be impounded or relocated by the City or its agents at the owner’s or operator’s
      expense. The owner shall be assessed reasonable relocation, storage, and administrative
      fees as established by resolution.

   C. This chapter supplements (and does not replace) applicable state law. Violations of state
      law are also enforceable by appropriate authorities.

11.34.150 Gas-Powered Bicycles, Scooters, and Similar Devices
A. For purposes of this section, “gas-powered device” means any bicycle, scooter, skateboard,
   or similar device propelled in whole or in part by a gasoline, diesel, or other internal
   combustion engine, regardless of whether it also has pedals or electric assist. This
   definition does not include mopeds, motor-driven cycles, or motorcycles as defined in Utah
   Code § 41-6a-102 when such devices are properly registered and operated in compliance
   with state law.

B. Gas-powered devices are prohibited on all sidewalks, shared-use paths, trails, bike lanes,
   parks, and other public grounds within the City except where expressly authorized by
   posted signage or City permit. Operators must dismount and walk gas-powered devices
   through any dismount zone or prohibited area.

C. When operated on public roadways where permitted by state law, gas-powered devices
   shall comply with all applicable provisions of Utah Code Title 41 (Motor Vehicles) and
   City traffic ordinances, including any registration, licensing, equipment, and insurance
   requirements.

D. Any gas-powered device operated or parked in violation of this chapter may be impounded
   or removed by the City or its agents at the owner’s expense. The owner shall be responsible
   for all applicable relocation, storage, and administrative fees established by resolution.

E. This section is intended to supplement, not replace, state motor vehicle laws. Nothing in
   this chapter authorizes the operation of any device that is illegal under state law.
                                          WHITE CITY
     DATE: JUNE 4, 2026                                   RESOLUTION NO. 2026-06-02
   A RESOLUTION ADOPTING RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE FOR CITY
                        COUNCIL MEETINGS
WHEREAS, Utah Code §10-3-606 directs the legislative body of a municipality to adopt rules of
order and procedure for the conduct of its meetings; and

WHEREAS, the White City Council (“Council”) finds it necessary and appropriate to establish
clear rules governing agendas, voting, public participation, meeting conduct, and other procedural
matters to promote orderly, efficient, and transparent public meetings; and

WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed the Rules of Order and Procedure, including provisions for
consent agendas, public comment, ethics, and meeting administration; and

WHEREAS, the Council intends that all meetings be conducted in compliance with the Utah Open
and Public Meetings Act, including notice, agendas, public access, and minutes requirements; and

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the White City, Utah City Council as follows:

Section 1. Pursuant to Utah Code § 10-3-606, the following Rules of Order and Procedure (the
Rules) are adopted to govern meetings of the City Council. as stated in Attachment A.

Section 2. Public Availability

The City Administrator is directed to publish these Rules with the Council’s policies, maintain
them for public inspection, and post them on the City’s website. These Rules shall be available to
the public at Council meetings and on the City’s official website.

Section 3. Effective Date. This Resolution shall take effect upon passage or as otherwise required
by law.

ADOPTED AND APPROVED at a duly called meeting of the White City, Utah City Council on
this 4th day of June 2026.

                                 ***Signatures on Following Page***
WHITE CITY COUNCIL

By: _______________________________
       Allan Perry, Mayor


ATTEST:

_________________________________
Rori L. Andreason, City Administrator/Recorder


Voting:
Mayor Perry voting                 ___
Council Member Mahoney voting      ___
Council Member Huish voting        ___
Council Member Shelton voting      ___
Council Member Price voting        ___
                                       ATTACHMENT A

     RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE FOR CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS

RULE 1 AGENDA
1.1 A written agenda, published in advance, shall guide meetings. Matters not on the agenda may
    be discussed, but no final action shall be taken on matters not on the agenda.
1.2 Items may be placed on the agenda by the Mayor or any two Council Members. Agenda items
    should be submitted to the City Administrator no later than 7 days before the scheduled
    meeting.
1.3 Ordinances and resolutions must be in writing before a vote is taken. A resolution or ordinance
    must be published in writing before a vote is taken on it.
1.4 A consent agenda may include routine, non-controversial items to be approved by a single
    motion. Any Council Member may, without a second, request removal of an item from the
    consent agenda for separate consideration; removed items shall be taken up in the regular order
    or at a time set by the Chair. No public hearing items shall appear on the consent agenda.

RULE 2 ORDER AND PROCEDURE; PARLIAMENTARY AUTHORITY
2.1 The Mayor chairs meetings; in the Mayor’s absence, the Mayor Pro Tempore presides.
    Meetings are conducted under a simplified Robert’s Rules for small bodies, as supplemented
    by these Rules. If a conflict arises, these Rules control over parliamentary authority, and Utah
    law controls over all.
2.2 Agenda items are generally considered in the order listed but may be reordered with consent
    of the Council.
2.3 Work meetings may be conducted more informally while maintaining decorum. At work
    meetings Council Members may freely participate as long as proper decorum is maintained.

RULE 3 MEETING TYPES; OPEN AND PUBLIC MEETINGS ACT
3.1 Regular, special, emergency, and workshop meetings may be held as noticed in accordance with the
    Open and Public Meetings Act.
3.2 All meetings of the Council shall be held in compliance with Title 52, Chapter 4, Utah Open and
    Public Meetings Act.
3.3 Electronic meetings are permitted as authorized by separate resolutions and applicable law.
    Electronic meetings are permitted and addressed in a separate resolution.

RULE 4 QUORUM
4.1 A quorum consists of three Council Members in attendance, which may include the Mayor. If
a quorum is lost, only recess, continuation, or adjournment may occur.
RULE 5 MAYOR PRO TEMPORE
5.1 The Council shall elect one of its members as Mayor Pro Tempore at least annually, and as
needed, to preside when the Mayor is absent or unable to preside, with full presiding authority
during that time.

RULE 6 VOTING
6.1 The minimum number of votes required to pass any action is three, even if there are absences
    or vacancies; any action having fewer than three favorable votes is defeated and invalid.
6.2 A roll call vote shall be taken and recorded for all resolutions, ordinances, or any actions that
    would create a liability against the City; otherwise the Council may vote as a group and the
    vote shall be recorded.
6.3 The Mayor votes as a Council Member and has no veto power.

RULE 7 RECONSIDERATION
7.1 No action may be reconsidered or rescinded at a special meeting unless the number of Council
Members present equals the number present at the meeting when the action was approved.

RULE 8 MINUTES AND RECORDS
8.1 A written draft of meeting minutes shall be made available to Council Members and the public
    within 30 days after the meeting and designated as a draft until approved.
8.2 Approved minutes shall be posted on the Utah Public Notice Website within three business
    days after approval.
8.3 Meeting Recordings shall be posted on the Utah Public Notice Website within three business
    days after the meeting.

RULE 9 RULE 9. AVAILABILITY OF RULES
9.1 These Rules shall be available to the public at Council meetings and posted on the City’s
official website.

RULE 10 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION; DECORUM
10.1 Public Comment.
   a. Public comment may be provided on agenda items at the time designated by the Mayor;
      public comment on non-agenda items may be permitted during a general public comment
      period.
   b. Individual comments may be limited to a reasonable time, generally three minutes per
      speaker, unless modified by the Mayor or majority vote; the Council may establish an
      overall time limit.
   c. Public comment closes upon commencement of Council deliberation unless reopened by
      majority vote.
   d. The City may allow public comments to be submitted by electronic or recorded means
      when designated by the City Administrator, and such comments shall be summarized or
      read into the record.
       When extraordinary volume of public input, duplicate comments, or time constraints
       prohibit reading all comments into the record, the remaining written comments will be
       officially accepted and incorporated into the permanent meeting minutes as if read aloud.
   e. The Chair shall ensure public comment is civil and orderly, allowing free expression within
      time and manner limits.
10.2 Decorum.
   a. Council Members shall treat each other and the public with respect and act in a civil and
      courteous manner.
   b. Public remarks must not be unduly repetitive, defamatory, unlawfully threatening,
      discriminatory, or otherwise impede the orderly conduct of the meeting.
   c. At the discretion of the Mayor or upon a majority vote of the Council, any disorderly person
      may be asked to leave the meeting room.

RULE 11 RULE 11. ETHICS
11.1 The Mayor and Council Members must comply with the Municipal Officers’ and Employees’
Ethics Act.

RULE 12 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
12.1 Council Members shall disclose any conflict of interest as required by Utah statute, state the
disclosure on the record prior to discussion or voting, and abstain as required by law.

RULE 13 PUBLIC HEARINGS
13.1 Unless otherwise required by law, public hearings shall generally proceed in the following
order: staff presentation; applicant presentation (if applicable); public comment; close public
hearing; Council deliberation and action; the Council may continue or reopen a hearing as
permitted by law.

RULE 14 RULE 14. COMMITTEES
14.1 The Council may establish committees, define purpose, membership, duration, and
parameters; committees may include up to two Council Members; no official action shall be taken
other than adoption of non-binding recommendations; committees shall not expend or be
supported by tax revenue unless the committee follows the Open and Public Meetings Act.
14.2 Committees that meet the definition of a “public body” under the Open and Public Meetings
Act shall comply with the Act; otherwise, they are not required to comply.

RULE 15 ORDER OF BUSINESS; ADJOURNMENT
15.1 Standard Sequence: Call to Order; Determine Quorum, Public Hearings, Staff Reports ,
Discussion Items, Action Items, Council Reports.
15.3 Meetings shall not adjourn until a motion to adjourn is approved by a majority of the Council
attending the meeting.

RULE 16 AMENDMENT OF RULES
16.1 These Rules may be amended by resolution of the Council at a duly noticed public meeting.
                                       Memorandum
To: White City Mayor & City Council
From: Cameron Platt, Makenzie Henry-Grahovic
Date: June 3, 2026
Subject: Roles, Authority, and Best Practices for Governance and Communications

Introduction
This memo explains elected officials’ roles, authority, and communication practices among elected
officials and staff. The memo also summarizes Utah’s legal requirements under the Utah Open and
Public Meetings Act (OPMA) (Utah Code §§ 52-4-101 et seq.,) and best practices for
policymaking, administration, public meetings, and official communications. The memo’s goal is
to help everyone work together effectively while staying within legal boundaries and maintaining
public trust.

In Utah’s five-member Council framework, there is no strict split between “legislative” and
“executive” branches similar to state or federal government organization. Council members act
collectively through properly noticed public meetings and handle both policy-making and many
administrative responsibilities. OPMA requires deliberations and actions to occur openly, with
specific notice, agenda, and minutes, and certain closed-session procedures (if necessary).
Additionally, OPMA prohibits serial or rolling quorum predeterminations.

Legal Framework

Under Utah law, all municipal powers belong collectively to the Council (five members, including
the Mayor) in municipalities operating under the five-member Council form of government. The
Mayor is a full voting member of the Council, presides over meetings, and serves as the Chief
executive officer of the City. The Mayor must enforce laws, keep the peace, and recommend ideas
to the Council, but does not have veto power over Council decisions. The Council holds legislative
authority and shares executive/administrative authority not allocated to the Mayor or reassigned
by ordinance. A quorum is three members, and a majority of the entire Council’s voting members
is required to pass ordinances, resolutions, or take action on a matter.

OPMA requires that actions and deliberations of public bodies occur openly. The Utah Supreme
Court explained, “We interpret the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act broadly to further the
declared statutory purpose of openness,” and that exceptions to the Act “be strictly construed.” 1 A
meeting occurs when a quorum (3) meets to discuss or act on matters within the Council’s
jurisdiction, including workshops and executive sessions unless properly closed. OPMA expressly




1
    Kearns-Tribune Corp. v. Salt Lake County Com’n, 28 P.3d 686 (2001).
excepts chance meetings and social gatherings, but Councilmembers must use caution not to
discuss public business when more than 2 Councilmembers are present.

Public notice is required at least 24 hours before a meeting and the notice must include the agenda,
date, time, and place for the meeting. The agenda must be ‘reasonably specific,’ and final action
may only occur on listed agenda items. Emergency meetings require best practicable notice and
majority approval after attempts to notify all members. Additionally, under OPMA, written
minutes and an audio recording of open meetings are required. The minutes must be made available
to the public within thirty (30) days after the meeting, and audio must be made available within
three (3) business days.

Further, OPMA allows electronic meetings only if first authorized by rule/ordinance, and with
proper notice and an anchor location. Closed meetings may be held if a quorum is present (3) and
two-thirds of the members of the public body present vote to close the meeting. Closed meetings
are for limited purposes only and certain issues are prohibited in closed meetings. The only vote
allowed in closed meetings is to return to open meeting. Finally, individuals constituting a quorum
may not act together outside a meeting in a concerted and deliberate way to predetermine an action.

Roles and Authority of Elected Officials and Staff

Mayor

The Mayor occupies a distinctive dual position in the City. The Mayor is a regular voting member,
chairs meetings, and may be temporarily replaced by the Mayor pro tempore during absence or
refusal to act. The Mayor is also the chief executive officer and the point of contact for all staff
including the City Administrator. The Mayor must enforce laws, ensure execution of
statutes/ordinances, report municipal conditions, recommend measures, remit fines, inspect
records, and, with the Council’s advice and consent, assign a Council member (or other persons)
to administer departments or appoint to offices/commissions.

Council

The Council is the legislative body of the City and adopts rules, resolutions, and ordinances for
budget, administration, organization, operation, and business of the City. The Council may direct
by resolution additional duties, powers, and responsibilities for any elected or appointed official
(unless prohibited by statute), create any office that the Council considers necessary, and perform
any function specifically provided by statute.

Council-Staff Communications and Chain of Command

Absent a City Manager or formal departmental assignments, day-to-day operational authority
flows through the Mayor. Individual Council members lack authority to direct staff outside
collective Council action. Formal assignment of a Council member to administer or supervise
departments must occur via the Mayor with Council advice and consent or by Council assignment
under statute.

To efficiently manage the City’s day-to-day operations, all elected officials must communicate
with each other and staff. We accomplish this legally and effectively by not including more than
two Councilmember’s in any meeting, phone call, or email where a decision or discussion of City
business occurs, unless a public meeting notice was made in advance. One on one discussions
among elected officials is not prohibited. Similarly, elected officials may communicate with staff
to request information and discuss ideas or concerns. Staff can then prepare a staff report for the
Council to review and discuss at a public meeting.

Open and Public Meetings Act (OPMA) Requirements

Applicability and Meeting Definition

Municipal governing body meetings must comply with OPMA. It is the intent of the legislature
that political subdivisions take action and deliberate openly. A meeting is a gathering of a public
body with a quorum, properly convened, for the purpose of receiving public comment,
deliberating, or taking action on a “relevant matter.” All elected officials must receive training on
OPMA annually.

For bodies with both executive and legislative responsibilities (White City’s five-member Council
form), “relevant matter” excludes managerial or operational matters. Any workshop or executive
session of the Council with a quorum present is subject to OPMA as an open meeting, unless
properly closed. OPMA makes clear the Act applies regardless of what the gathering is labeled as
(meeting, workshop, retreat, etc.). Electronic meetings are allowed but require prior adoption of
governing rules, 24 hour notice of how to connect, and an anchor location for members of the
public to attend.

Notice, Agendas, Minutes, and Recording

Notice of a public meeting must be made at least 24 hours’ before the meeting including the
agenda, date, time, and place. The agenda must have “reasonable specificity,” and final action may
not be taken on topics not listed. If an emergency meeting is needed, OPMA requires best
practicable notice and majority approval.

Written minutes and complete audio recordings are required for open meetings (with limited
exceptions) and must be published within 30 days (for written) and 3 business days (for audio).
Minutes must include specific details such as date, time, place, names of members present and
absent, substance of matters, a record by individual member of each vote taken, names of non-
members who provided public testimony, and substance of public comments. Approved minutes
of an open meeting are the official record of the meeting.
Closed Sessions

Closed sessions require a properly noticed open meeting, a two-thirds vote of members present (or
majority in limited circumstances), and an on-the-record announcement of reasons for the closed
session, location, and the vote by name of each member for or against closing. No approvals or
votes may occur in closed session except to return to open session. Permitted closed session topics
include personnel character/competence/health, litigation strategy, and certain real property
matters.

Ethics

Individuals constituting a quorum may not, outside a meeting, act together in a concerted and
deliberate way to predetermine action on a relevant matter. Council members should not use
electronic communications as a substitute for open deliberations. This includes things such as
calling, texting, or emailing each Council member individually to deliberate pending agenda items
using context from the prior conversation with another Council member. Additionally, elected
officers must file annual conflict of interest disclosures by January 31 and disclose financial
interests immediately before related discussions.

Best Practices

Electronic Communications

Reserve substantive deliberation for noticed open meetings to avoid predetermination. Electronic
communications should be used for scheduling and factual updates. Avoid reply-all threads among
a quorum on policy matters and compile questions for staff through the Mayor.

Closed Session

Verify the basis before going into closed sessions. State reasons, location, and votes on the record
and take no action in closed sessions.

Conclusion

The above information helps maintain public trust, reduce OPMA risk and other legal issues, and
allows the City to run. Let us know if you have any questions or would like to discuss any part of
this memo in more detail.

Link to relevant statutes and resources:
   • Utah Forms of Municipal Government - Utah Code §§ 10-3b-1 et seq.,
   • Five-Member Council Form of Government - Utah Code §§ 10-3b-4 et seq.,
   • Utah Open and Public Meetings Act, General - Utah Code §§ 52-4-1 et seq.,
   • Utah Open and Public Meetings Act, Meetings - Utah Code §§ 52-4-2 et seq.,
•   Utah Municipal Officers’ and Employees’ Ethics Act - Utah Code § 10-3-13 et seq.,
                                         WHITE CITY

  DATE: JUNE 4, 2026                                           RESOLUTION No. 2026-06-04

     RESOLUTION ADOPTING EMERGENCY INTERIM SUCCESSION ORDER.

WHEREAS, White City (“City”) recognizes it is at risk to a wide range of natural, technological,
and man-made hazards and such events require ongoing emergency interim successors by all
jurisdictions of government within the City, County, and State;

WHEREAS, the City Council (“Council”) finds that it is in the public interest to have emergency
interim successors;

WHEREAS, City officers, employees, or designees will execute emergency interim successors;

WHEREAS, Utah Code § 53-2a-807 requires the City to designate three emergency interim
successors and the specific order of succession for each officer, designate an emergency alert plan
and system, and provide a list of the designated successors and individuals to the Division of
Emergency Management;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED By the White City, Utah City Council that:
SECTION I: The Emergency Operations Manager and order of succession for White City is
as follows:

           1. Emergency Operations Manager - Mayor;

           2. Mayor Pro Tempore;

           3. Members of the City Council in descending order of seniority on the Council; and

           4. The chief law enforcement officer of the City.

SECTION II: The City Administrator is directed to send this Resolution to the Utah Division of
Emergency Management by June 1st of each year.

SECTION III: Effective Date. This resolution shall take effect upon publication.

PASSED AND ADOPTED at a duly called meeting on this 4th day of June 2026.

                              ***Signatures on Following Page***
WHITE CITY COUNCIL

By: _______________________________
       Allan Perry, Mayor


ATTEST:

_________________________________
Rori L. Andreason, City Administrator/Recorder


Voting:
Mayor Perry voting                 ___
Council Member Mahoney voting      ___
Council Member Huish voting        ___
Council Member Shelton voting      ___
Council Member Price voting        ___
                                               Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                            General Ledger for White City - 7/1/2025 to 6/30/2026
        Account                                                                                                                      Balance
    Date         Code                                         Description                                Debit        Credit
10100 - Cash - Zions Checking                                                                                                              $67.00
    7/1/2025 APCK        Check # ACH.0701251130.7 - Ashtree Legal Services PC                                           6,000.00       (5,933.00)
    7/1/2025 APCK        Check # ACH.0701251132.81 - DS Accounting Services, LLC                                        1,250.00       (7,183.00)
    7/1/2025 APCK        Check # ACH.0701251135.429 - Positive Impact Consulting, LLC                                   7,000.00      (14,183.00)
    7/1/2025 APCK        VOID - Check # ACH.0701251135.429 - Positive Impact Consulting, LLC               7,000.00                    (7,183.00)
    7/1/2025 JE          1177 - 1177 - Contribution from General Fund                                    543,339.00                   536,156.00
    7/1/2025 JE          1204 - 1204 - Reverse due from funds                                                         233,792.71      302,363.29
    7/2/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 12563 - Checking - Zions 982576647                                    291.90                   302,655.19
    7/3/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13003 - Checking - Zions 982576647                                  3,012.32                   305,667.51
    7/7/2025 APCK        Check # 4176 - Utah League of Cities and Towns                                                 3,092.93      302,574.58
    7/7/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 12579 - Checking - Zions 982576647                                    90.88                    302,665.46
    7/8/2025 APCK        Check # ACH.0708251136.36 - Salt Lake County Clerk                                               500.00      302,165.46
    7/8/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 12585 - Checking - Zions 982576647                                     75.75                   302,241.21
   7/11/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 12629 - Checking - Zions 982576647                                     90.89                   302,332.10
   7/15/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 12640 - Checking - Zions 982576647                                    250.02                   302,582.12
   7/15/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 12642 - Checking - Zions 982576647                                    150.00                   302,732.12
   7/16/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 12646 - Checking - Zions 982576647                                    141.40                   302,873.52
   7/17/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 12652 - Checking - Zions 982576647                                     90.91                   302,964.43
   7/18/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 12626 - Checking - Zions 982576647                                  3,530.43                   306,494.86
   7/18/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 12661 - Checking - Zions 982576647                                    187.27                   306,682.13
   7/23/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 12684 - Checking - Zions 982576647                                    820.67                   307,502.80
   7/25/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 12694 - Checking - Zions 982576647                                     90.91                   307,593.71
   7/29/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 12712 - Checking - Zions 982576647                                    125.00                   307,718.71
   7/30/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 12719 - Checking - Zions 982576647                                    141.39                   307,860.10
   7/31/2025 JE          Import: 1163 - 1163 - Payroll - City Councils 7-31 Brighton Emigration Kearns                  7,400.95      300,459.15
                         Magna White City
   7/31/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 12725 - Checking - Zions 982576647                                   326.64                    300,785.79
   7/31/2025 JE          1178 - 1178 - Contribution to GF                                                              88,248.01      212,537.78
    8/1/2025 APCK        Check # ACH.0801250958.3009 - Streamline Software, Inc.                                          800.00       211,737.78
    8/4/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 12740 - Checking - Zions 982576647                                   126.26                     211,864.04
    8/4/2025 APCK        Check # ACH.0804251205.3009 - Streamline Software, Inc.                                        1,600.00      210,264.04
    8/6/2025 APCK        Check # ACH.0806251058.29 - Utah Local Governments Trust                                       9,946.59      200,317.45
    8/7/2025 APCK        Check # ACH.0807251111.81 - DS Accounting Services, LLC                                        1,250.00      199,067.45
    8/7/2025 APCK        Check # ACH.0807251113.7 - Ashtree Legal Services PC                                           6,000.00      193,067.45
    8/8/2025 APCK        Check # ACH.0808251221.429 - Positive Impact Consulting, LLC                                   7,000.00      186,067.45
    8/8/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 12769 - Checking - Zions 982576647                                     70.70                   186,138.15
    8/8/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 12773 - Checking - Zions 982576647                                  7,300.00                   193,438.15
   8/11/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13692 - Checking - Zions 982576647                                     70.71                   193,508.86
   8/12/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 12784 - Checking - Zions 982576647                                    249.99                   193,758.85
   8/13/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 12790 - Checking - Zions 982576647                                    399.98                   194,158.83
   8/14/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 12810 - Checking - Zions 982576647                                    100.00                   194,258.83
   8/21/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 12858 - Checking - Zions 982576647                                    770.73                   195,029.56
   8/22/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13701 - Checking - Zions 982576647                                  3,146.51                   198,176.07
   8/26/2025 JE          Import: 1179 - 1179 - Payroll - City Councils 8-31                                             7,467.92      190,708.15
   8/26/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 12880 - Checking - Zions 982576647                                   126.22                    190,834.37
   8/31/2025 JE          1233 - 1233 - Contribution to GF                                                             150,092.89        40,741.48
    9/2/2025 APCK        Check # ACH.0902251412.81 - DS Accounting Services, LLC                                        1,250.00        39,491.48
    9/2/2025 APCK        Check # ACH.0902251413.429 - Positive Impact Consulting, LLC                                   7,000.00        32,491.48
    9/2/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 12918 - Checking - Zions 982576647                                   146.45                      32,637.93
    9/2/2025 APCK        Check # ACH.0902251419.3009 - Streamline Software, Inc.                                          800.00        31,837.93
    9/4/2025 APCK        Check # ACH.0904250810.7 - Ashtree Legal Services PC                                           6,000.00        25,837.93
    9/5/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 12946 - Checking - Zions 982576647                                   149.98                      25,987.91
    9/8/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 12959 - Checking - Zions 982576647                                   210.01                      26,197.92
   9/11/2025 APCK        Check # ACH.0911251312.26 - Corporate Edge Printing Services                                   2,760.68        23,437.24
   9/11/2025 APCK        Check # 4330 - Andreason, Rori                                                                    96.00        23,341.24
   9/15/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13028 - Checking - Zions 982576647                                    772.50                     24,113.74
   9/16/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13036 - Checking - Zions 982576647                                    217.15                     24,330.89
   9/22/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13007 - Checking - Zions 982576647                                  5,031.78                     29,362.67
   9/22/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13063 - Checking - Zions 982576647                                     75.77                     29,438.44
   9/22/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13065 - Checking - Zions 982576647                                 17,280.35                     46,718.79
   9/24/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13071 - Checking - Zions 982576647                                    149.98                     46,868.77
   9/25/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13116 - Checking - Zions 982576647                                     90.89                     46,959.66
   9/29/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13132 - Checking - Zions 982576647                                     75.75                     47,035.41
   9/30/2025 JE          Import: 1236 - 1236 - Payroll 9-30 - City Councils                                             7,467.96        39,567.45
   9/30/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13137 - Checking - Zions 982576647                                  1,149.98                     40,717.43
   9/30/2025 BKTR        Bank Transfer to Zions Credit Card                                                             5,028.40        35,689.03
   9/30/2025 JE          1248 - 1248 - State Surcharge                                                                     42.45        35,646.58
   9/30/2025 JE          1250 - 1250 - Undeposited receipts                                                            17,280.35        18,366.23
   9/30/2025 JE          1251 - 1251 - Contribution to GF                                                              92,350.23      (73,984.00)
   9/30/2025 JE          1252 - 1252 - Reallocate funds                                                      470.70                   (73,513.30)
   9/30/2025 BKTR        Bank Transfer from PTIF                                                          72,780.30                      (733.00)
   10/1/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13160 - Checking - Zions 982576647                                     70.65                      (662.35)
                                                                             Page 1                                           5/28/2026 08:51 AM
                                            Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                         General Ledger for White City - 7/1/2025 to 6/30/2026
        Account                                                                                                             Balance
    Date         Code                                        Description                     Debit          Credit
10100 - Cash - Zions Checking ( continued )
   10/2/2025 APCK        Check # ACH.1002251320.81 - DS Accounting Services, LLC                              1,250.00        (1,912.35)
   10/2/2025 APCK        Check # ACH.1002251421.7 - Ashtree Legal Services PC                                 6,000.00        (7,912.35)
   10/2/2025 APCK        Check # ACH.1002251423.429 - Positive Impact Consulting, LLC                         7,000.00      (14,912.35)
   10/2/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13168 - Checking - Zions 982576647                        1,049.48                   (13,862.87)
   10/2/2025 APCK        Check # ACH.1002250950.3009 - Streamline Software, Inc.                                800.00      (14,662.87)
   10/3/2025 APCK        Check # 4361 - Andreason, Rori                                                         221.03      (14,883.90)
   10/3/2025 APCK        Check # 4362 - CivicPlus, LLC                                                        1,323.00      (16,206.90)
   10/3/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13174 - Checking - Zions 982576647                          146.46                   (16,060.44)
   10/4/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13183 - Checking - Zions 982576647                          212.10                   (15,848.34)
   10/6/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13189 - Checking - Zions 982576647                           90.91                   (15,757.43)
   10/7/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13194 - Checking - Zions 982576647                           70.69                   (15,686.74)
   10/9/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13205 - Checking - Zions 982576647                           75.75                   (15,610.99)
  10/10/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13214 - Checking - Zions 982576647                           75.75                   (15,535.24)
  10/15/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13234 - Checking - Zions 982576647                          246.93                   (15,288.31)
  10/16/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13258 - Checking - Zions 982576647                          275.24                   (15,013.07)
  10/20/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13255 - Checking - Zions 982576647                        3,094.92                    (11,918.15)
  10/20/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13276 - Checking - Zions 982576647                          150.00                    (11,768.15)
  10/22/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13318 - Checking - Zions 982576647                          220.70                    (11,547.45)
  10/23/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13327 - Checking - Zions 982576647                          249.99                    (11,297.46)
  10/23/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13329 - Checking - Zions 982576647                           75.75                    (11,221.71)
  10/25/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 14094 - Checking - Zions 982576647                          663.05                   (10,558.66)
  10/27/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13347 - Checking - Zions 982576647                          133.31                   (10,425.35)
  10/28/2025 APCK        Check # 4418 - White City Water Improvement District                                 2,712.05      (13,137.40)
  10/28/2025 APCK        Check # 4422 - White City Water Improvement District                                 1,500.00      (14,637.40)
  10/28/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13354 - Checking - Zions 982576647                         250.00                    (14,387.40)
  10/29/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13360 - Checking - Zions 982576647                         252.45                    (14,134.95)
  10/31/2025 JE          Import: 1253 - 1253 - City Council Payroll 10-31                                     7,400.92      (21,535.87)
  10/31/2025 BKTR        Bank Transfer to Zions Credit Card                                                      10.76      (21,546.63)
  10/31/2025 JE          1270 - 1270 - Contribution to GF                                                   146,052.12     (167,598.75)
  10/31/2025 JE          1271 - 1271 - Reallocate funds                                         381.74                     (167,217.01)
  10/31/2025 BKTR        Bank Transfer from PTIF                                            167,947.06                            730.05
   11/3/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13384 - Checking - Zions 982576647                       124.97                            855.02
   11/3/2025 APCK        Check # ACH.1103251116.3009 - Streamline Software, Inc.                                800.00             55.02
   11/4/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13391 - Checking - Zions 982576647                         468.01                          523.03
   11/5/2025 APCK        Check # ACH.1105250747.7 - Ashtree Legal Services PC                                 6,000.00        (5,476.97)
   11/5/2025 APCK        Check # ACH.1105250748.429 - Positive Impact Consulting, LLC                         7,000.00      (12,476.97)
   11/5/2025 APCK        Check # ACH.1105250750.81 - DS Accounting Services, LLC                              1,250.00      (13,726.97)
   11/5/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13400 - Checking - Zions 982576647                         370.43                    (13,356.54)
   11/6/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13408 - Checking - Zions 982576647                         146.44                    (13,210.10)
   11/6/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13410 - Checking - Zions 982576647                          70.70                    (13,139.40)
  11/12/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13429 - Checking - Zions 982576647                          90.89                    (13,048.51)
  11/14/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13509 - Checking - Zions 982576647                         198.00                    (12,850.51)
  11/25/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13563 - Checking - Zions 982576647                         175.00                    (12,675.51)
  11/30/2025 JE          Import: 1273 - 1273 - Payroll - City Councils PPE 11-30                              7,520.45      (20,195.96)
  11/30/2025 BKTR        Bank Transfer to Zions Credit Card                                                     383.13      (20,579.09)
  11/30/2025 JE          1280 - 1280 - Contribution to GF                                                    92,512.48     (113,091.57)
  11/30/2025 JE          1282 - 1282 - Reallocate funds                                          100.00                    (112,991.57)
  11/30/2025 BKTR        Bank Transfer from PTIF                                             113,721.62                           730.05
   12/1/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13601 - Checking - Zions 982576647                        100.03                           830.08
   12/2/2025 APCK        Check # ACH.1202251117.3009 - Streamline Software, Inc.                                800.00             30.08
   12/2/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13606 - Checking - Zions 982576647                         227.99                          258.07
   12/4/2025 APCK        Check # ACH.1204251502.429 - Positive Impact Consulting, LLC                         7,000.00        (6,741.93)
   12/4/2025 APCK        Check # ACH.1204251503.81 - DS Accounting Services, LLC                              1,250.00        (7,991.93)
   12/4/2025 APCK        Check # ACH.1204251504.7 - Ashtree Legal Services PC                                 6,000.00      (13,991.93)
   12/4/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13619 - Checking - Zions 982576647                         181.78                    (13,810.15)
   12/5/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13622 - Checking - Zions 982576647                          90.92                    (13,719.23)
   12/8/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13632 - Checking - Zions 982576647                         250.00                    (13,469.23)
   12/9/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13639 - Checking - Zions 982576647                         250.00                    (13,219.23)
  12/16/2025 APCK        Check # ACH.1216251006.26 - Corporate Edge Printing Services                         1,285.14      (14,504.37)
  12/18/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13681 - Checking - Zions 982576647                         217.14                    (14,287.23)
  12/22/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13719 - Checking - Zions 982576647                          70.70                    (14,216.53)
  12/23/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13728 - Checking - Zions 982576647                         195.68                    (14,020.85)
  12/23/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13730 - Checking - Zions 982576647                         110.00                    (13,910.85)
  12/24/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13735 - Checking - Zions 982576647                          70.70                    (13,840.15)
  12/26/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13737 - Checking - Zions 982576647                          70.71                    (13,769.44)
  12/29/2025 APCK        Check # ACH.1229251001.7 - Ashtree Legal Services PC                                 6,000.00      (19,769.44)
  12/29/2025 APCK        Check # ACH.1229251002.429 - Positive Impact Consulting, LLC                         7,000.00      (26,769.44)
  12/29/2025 APCK        Check # ACH.1229251005.81 - DS Accounting Services, LLC                              1,250.00      (28,019.44)
  12/29/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13747 - Checking - Zions 982576647                          70.73                    (27,948.71)
  12/30/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13752 - Checking - Zions 982576647                          70.70                    (27,878.01)
  12/31/2025 JE          1307 - 1307 - State Surcharge                                                           34.91      (27,912.92)
                                                                            Page 2                                  5/28/2026 08:51 AM
                                               Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                            General Ledger for White City - 7/1/2025 to 6/30/2026
        Account                                                                                                               Balance
    Date         Code                                        Description                        Debit          Credit
10100 - Cash - Zions Checking ( continued )
  12/31/2025 BKTR        Bank Transfer to Zions Credit Card                                                        921.03      (28,833.95)
  12/31/2025 JE          1310 - 1310 - Contribution to GF                                                      141,190.52     (170,024.47)
  12/31/2025 BKTR        Bank Transfer from PTIF                                                170,687.52                          663.05
    1/2/2026 APCK        Check # ACH.0102261205.3009 - Streamline Software, Inc.                                   800.00         (136.95)
    1/2/2026 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13767 - Checking - Zions 982576647                            545.24                         408.29
    1/6/2026 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13786 - Checking - Zions 982576647                            162.00                         570.29
    1/9/2026 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13813 - Checking - Zions 982576647                             90.89                         661.18
    1/9/2026 APCK        Check # ACH.0109261218.19 - Salt Lake County Mayors Financial                           9,360.97       (8,699.79)
                         Administration
   1/13/2026 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13862 - Checking - Zions 982576647                             111.08                    (8,588.71)
   1/21/2026 APCK        Check # ACH.0121260917.29 - Utah Local Governments Trust                                  125.64       (8,714.35)
   1/22/2026 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13894 - Checking - Zions 982576647                            250.00                     (8,464.35)
   1/27/2026 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13902 - Checking - Zions 982576647                             70.69                     (8,393.66)
   1/28/2026 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13970 - Checking - Zions 982576647                            545.24                     (7,848.42)
   1/30/2026 APCK        Check # EFT - Paylocity                                                                   188.96       (8,037.38)
   1/31/2026 JE          1317 - 1317 - Contribution to GF                                                       87,300.64      (95,338.02)
   1/31/2026 JE          1318 - 1318 - Reallocate funds                                              70.70                     (95,267.32)
   1/31/2026 BKTR        Bank Transfer from PTIF                                                 96,286.65                        1,019.33
   1/31/2026 JE          Import: 1325 - 1325 - Payroll - City Councils PPE Jan 2026                              7,517.82       (6,498.49)
    2/3/2026 APCK        Check # ACH.0203261530.429 - Positive Impact Consulting, LLC                            7,000.00      (13,498.49)
    2/6/2026 APCK        Check # ACH.0206261230.7 - Ashtree Legal Services PC                                    6,000.00      (19,498.49)
   2/12/2026 APCK        Check # ACH.0212261316.3009 - Streamline Software, Inc.                                   840.00      (20,338.49)
   2/18/2026 APCK        Check # ACH.0218261157.81 - DS Accounting Services, LLC                                 1,250.00      (21,588.49)
   2/20/2026 APCK        Check # EFT - Paylocity                                                                   188.50      (21,776.99)
   2/28/2026 JE          Import: 1327 - 1327 - Payroll - City Councils Feb 2026                                  7,442.19      (29,219.18)
   2/28/2026 JE          1328 - 1328 - Contribution to GF                                                      123,596.16     (152,815.34)
   2/28/2026 JE          1329 - 1329 - Reallocate funds                                                             70.05     (152,885.39)
   2/28/2026 BKTR        Bank Transfer from PTIF                                                153,359.94                          474.55
    3/4/2026 APCK        Check # ACH.0304261649.429 - Positive Impact Consulting, LLC                            7,000.00       (6,525.45)
    3/9/2026 APCK        Check # ACH.0309261435.7 - Ashtree Legal Services PC                                    6,000.00      (12,525.45)
    3/9/2026 APCK        Check # ACH.0309261449.3009 - Streamline Software, Inc.                                   840.00      (13,365.45)
   3/12/2026 APCK        Check # CC-Maridene - Faces Photography                                                   583.70      (13,949.15)
   3/13/2026 APCK        Check # CC-Rori A. - Walmart Super Center                                                  18.77      (13,967.92)
   3/13/2026 APCK        Check # CC-Rori A, - DocuSign, Inc.                                                       128.94      (14,096.86)
   3/20/2026 APCK        Check # EFT - Paylocity                                                                   188.50      (14,285.36)
   3/23/2026 APCK        Check # CC-Rori A. - Isabellas, Isabellas Catering or Isabellas 2 Go                      750.00      (15,035.36)
   3/30/2026 APCK        Check # 4730 - State of Utah                                                               25.00      (15,060.36)
   3/30/2026 APCK        Check # 4733 - White City Township Community Council, Inc.                             53,000.00      (68,060.36)
   3/31/2026 JE          Import: 1333 - 1333 - Payroll - City Council PPE Mar 2026                               7,517.82      (75,578.18)
   3/31/2026 APCK        Check # CC- MA - High Value Marking & Engraving                                            70.05      (75,648.23)
   3/31/2026 APCK        Check # CC- RA - ZOOM Video Communications Inc.                                            10.76      (75,658.99)
   3/31/2026 JE          1347 - 1347 - Parks Master Plan contribution                                           19,598.00      (95,256.99)
   3/31/2026 JE          1320 - 1320 - Income Accrual Mar 2026                                                      42.78      (95,299.77)
   3/31/2026 JE          1355 - 1355 - Contribution to GF                                                      113,809.66     (209,109.43)
   3/31/2026 BKTR        Bank Transfer from PTIF                                                209,772.48                          663.05
    4/6/2026 APCK        Check # ACH.0406261321.7 - Ashtree Legal Services PC                                    6,000.00       (5,336.95)
    4/6/2026 APCK        Check # ACH.0406261327.429 - Positive Impact Consulting, LLC                            7,000.00      (12,336.95)
    4/6/2026 APCK        Check # ACH.0406261332.3009 - Streamline Software, Inc.                                   840.00      (13,176.95)
    4/6/2026 APCK        Check # ACH.0406261324.81 - DS Accounting Services, LLC                                 2,500.00      (15,676.95)
   4/20/2026 APCK        Check # EFT - Paylocity                                                                   188.50      (15,865.45)
   4/21/2026 APCK        Check # CC- RA - ZOOM Video Communications Inc.                                            10.76      (15,876.21)
   4/21/2026 APCK        Check # CC- RA - Office Depot                                                             130.51      (16,006.72)
   4/21/2026 APCK        Check # CC- Mark S. - Google, LLC                                                       1,176.00      (17,182.72)
   4/30/2026 JE          Import: 1360 - 1360 - Payroll - City Councils Br, EC, WC PPE 4-30                       7,514.82      (24,697.54)
   4/30/2026 DEP         Bank Deposit: 14254 - Checking - Zions 982576647                           3,214.60                   (21,482.94)
    5/1/2026 DEP         Bank Deposit: 14206 - Checking - Zions 982576647                              67.04                   (21,415.90)
    5/4/2026 DEP         Bank Deposit: 14208 - Checking - Zions 982576647                             180.33                   (21,235.57)
    5/5/2026 APCK        Check # ACH.0505261235.7 - Ashtree Legal Services PC                                    6,000.00      (27,235.57)
    5/5/2026 APCK        Check # ACH.0505261239.429 - Positive Impact Consulting, LLC                            7,000.00      (34,235.57)
    5/5/2026 APCK        Check # ACH.0505261255.3009 - Streamline Software, Inc.                                   840.00      (35,075.57)
    5/6/2026 DEP         Bank Deposit: 14239 - Checking - Zions 982576647                              75.78                   (34,999.79)
    5/7/2026 DEP         Bank Deposit: 14241 - Checking - Zions 982576647                           1,271.05                   (33,728.74)
    5/8/2026 DEP         Bank Deposit: 14243 - Checking - Zions 982576647                           1,426.55                   (32,302.19)
   5/11/2026 DEP         Bank Deposit: 14248 - Checking - Zions 982576647                             599.99                   (31,702.20)
   5/12/2026 DEP         Bank Deposit: 14250 - Checking - Zions 982576647                             952.03                   (30,750.17)
   5/13/2026 DEP         Bank Deposit: 14251 - Checking - Zions 982576647                           1,981.79                   (28,768.38)
   5/15/2026 DEP         Bank Deposit: 14262 - Checking - Zions 982576647                              90.90                   (28,677.48)
   5/20/2026 APCK        Check # EFT - Paylocity                                                                   213.50      (28,890.98)
   5/26/2026 APCK        Check # 4841 - White City Community Council                                             2,700.00      (31,590.98)
   5/26/2026 APCK        Check # ACH.0526261133.422 - West Wind Litho                                              844.98      (32,435.96)
   5/26/2026 APCK        VOID - Check # ACH.0526261133.422 - West Wind Litho                         844.98                    (31,590.98)
                                                                            Page 3                                     5/28/2026 08:51 AM
                                               Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                            General Ledger for White City - 7/1/2025 to 6/30/2026
        Account                                                                                                                  Balance
    Date         Code                                     Description                           Debit            Credit
10100 - Cash - Zions Checking ( continued )
   5/27/2026 DEP         Bank Deposit: 14270 - Checking - Zions 982576647                           249.99                        (31,340.99)
                                                                                             $1,606,801.60 ($1,638,209.59)       ($31,340.99)

10102 - Cash - Zions Bond Escrow                                                                                                     $653.00

10110 - Cash - Xpress Bill Pay                                                                                                         $0.00
    7/1/2025 DEP           Bank Deposit: 12562 - Xpress Bill Pay Clearing                           150.01                            150.01
    7/2/2025 DEP           Bank Deposit: 12568 - Xpress Bill Pay Clearing                            70.69                            220.70
   7/16/2025 DEP           Bank Deposit: 12651 - Xpress Bill Pay Clearing                            50.00                            270.70
   8/19/2025 DEP           Bank Deposit: 12851 - Xpress Bill Pay Clearing                           200.00                            470.70
   9/30/2025 JE            *1252 - Reallocate funds                                                                  470.70             0.00
   10/2/2025 DEP           Bank Deposit: 13173 - Xpress Bill Pay Clearing                           306.00                            306.00
  10/28/2025 DEP           Bank Deposit: 13357 - Xpress Bill Pay Clearing                            75.74                            381.74
  10/31/2025 JE            *1271 - Reallocate funds                                                                  381.74             0.00
  11/17/2025 DEP           Bank Deposit: 13524 - Xpress Bill Pay Clearing                           100.00                            100.00
  11/30/2025 JE            *1282 - Reallocate funds                                                                  100.00             0.00
    1/5/2026 DEP           Bank Deposit: 13781 - Xpress Bill Pay Clearing                            70.70                             70.70
   1/31/2026 JE            *1318 - Reallocate funds                                                                   70.70             0.00
   4/30/2026 DEP           Bank Deposit: 14253 - Xpress Bill Pay Clearing                           150.00                            150.00
    5/3/2026 DEP           Bank Deposit: 14205 - Xpress Bill Pay Clearing                            32.97                            182.97
    5/4/2026 DEP           Bank Deposit: 14207 - Xpress Bill Pay Clearing                            35.59                            218.56
   5/11/2026 DEP           Bank Deposit: 14247 - Xpress Bill Pay Clearing                           452.47                            671.03
                                                                                                 $1,694.17       ($1,023.14)         $671.03

10200 - Cash - PTIF                                                                                                              $927,668.54
   7/23/2025 DEP           Bank Deposit: 12825 - PTIF                                            77,835.80                       1,005,504.34
   7/23/2025 DEP           Bank Deposit: 13246 - PTIF                                               918.35                       1,006,422.69
   7/31/2025 DEP           Bank Deposit: 12829 - PTIF                                             2,603.67                       1,009,026.36
   8/25/2025 DEP           Bank Deposit: 13247 - PTIF                                            96,816.80                       1,105,843.16
   8/25/2025 DEP           Bank Deposit: 13249 - PTIF                                             1,700.98                       1,107,544.14
   8/31/2025 DEP           Bank Deposit: 13250 - PTIF                                             3,841.35                       1,111,385.49
   9/23/2025 DEP           Bank Deposit: 13251 - PTIF                                            67,111.26                       1,178,496.75
   9/23/2025 DEP           Bank Deposit: 13252 - PTIF                                             6,184.06                       1,184,680.81
   9/23/2025 DEP           Bank Deposit: 13253 - PTIF                                            91,525.41                       1,276,206.22
   9/23/2025 DEP           Bank Deposit: 13278 - PTIF                                             3,099.67                       1,279,305.89
   9/30/2025 DEP           Bank Deposit: 13287 - PTIF                                             3,963.25                       1,283,269.14
   9/30/2025 BKTR          Bank Transfer to Checking - Zions 982576647                                            72,780.30      1,210,488.84
  10/23/2025 DEP           Bank Deposit: 13465 - PTIF                                            90,253.96                       1,300,742.80
  10/31/2025 DEP           Bank Deposit: 13472 - PTIF                                             4,520.31                       1,305,263.11
  10/31/2025 BKTR          Bank Transfer to Checking - Zions 982576647                                           167,947.06      1,137,316.05
  11/20/2025 DEP           Bank Deposit: 13687 - PTIF                                           123,914.64                       1,261,230.69
  11/20/2025 DEP           Bank Deposit: 13688 - PTIF                                             3,415.18                       1,264,645.87
  11/30/2025 DEP           Bank Deposit: 13689 - PTIF                                             3,907.71                       1,268,553.58
  11/30/2025 BKTR          Bank Transfer to Checking - Zions 982576647                                           113,721.62      1,154,831.96
  12/10/2025 DEP           Bank Deposit: 13836 - PTIF                                               372.55                       1,155,204.51
  12/20/2025 DEP           Bank Deposit: 13832 - PTIF                                            69,477.40                       1,224,681.91
  12/20/2025 DEP           Bank Deposit: 13833 - PTIF                                             6,067.98                       1,230,749.89
  12/20/2025 DEP           Bank Deposit: 13834 - PTIF                                             3,119.31                       1,233,869.20
  12/20/2025 DEP           Bank Deposit: 13835 - PTIF                                               976.51                       1,234,845.71
  12/31/2025 DEP           Bank Deposit: 13837 - PTIF                                             3,887.44                       1,238,733.15
  12/31/2025 BKTR          Bank Transfer to Checking - Zions 982576647                                           170,687.52      1,068,045.63
   1/27/2026 DEP           Bank Deposit: 13936 - PTIF                                            99,050.18                       1,167,095.81
   1/27/2026 DEP           Bank Deposit: 13937 - PTIF                                             4,360.15                       1,171,455.96
   1/31/2026 BKTR          Bank Transfer to Checking - Zions 982576647                                            96,286.65      1,075,169.31
   1/31/2026 DEP           Bank Deposit: 14001 - PTIF                                             3,448.22                       1,078,617.53
    2/4/2026 DEP           Bank Deposit: 14003 - PTIF                                            45,499.16                       1,124,116.69
   2/26/2026 DEP           Bank Deposit: 14004 - PTIF                                            98,302.30                       1,222,418.99
   2/28/2026 DEP           Bank Deposit: 14005 - PTIF                                             3,119.46                       1,225,538.45
   2/28/2026 BKTR          Bank Transfer to Checking - Zions 982576647                                           153,359.94      1,072,178.51
   3/23/2026 DEP           Bank Deposit: 14055 - PTIF                                            63,563.09                       1,135,741.60
   3/23/2026 DEP           Bank Deposit: 14056 - PTIF                                             5,895.31                       1,141,636.91
   3/23/2026 DEP           Bank Deposit: 14059 - PTIF                                             3,074.82                       1,144,711.73
   3/31/2026 DEP           Bank Deposit: 14063 - PTIF                                             3,656.13                       1,148,367.86
   3/31/2026 BKTR          Bank Transfer to Checking - Zions 982576647                                            209,772.48       938,595.38
                                                                                               $995,482.41     ($984,555.57)     $938,595.38

10401 - Zions Credit Card                                                                                                               $0.00
   8/31/2025 APCK         Check # CC - Office Depot                                                                       1.86         (1.86)
   8/31/2025 APCK         VOID - Check # CC - Office Depot                                              1.86                             0.00
    9/3/2025 APCK         Check # CC - ZOOM Video Communications Inc.                                                 10.76           (10.76)
   9/19/2025 APCK         Check # CC - Steve's Black Sabbath BBQ                                                   4,807.60        (4,818.36)
   9/26/2025 APCK         Check # CC - Zurchers Party                                                                210.04        (5,028.40)
                                                                            Page 4                                         5/28/2026 08:51 AM
                                            Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                         General Ledger for White City - 7/1/2025 to 6/30/2026
        Account                                                                                                            Balance
    Date        Code                                       Description                       Debit          Credit
10401 - Zions Credit Card ( continued )
   9/30/2025 BKTR         Bank Transfer from Checking - Zions 982576647                          5,028.40                          0.00
   10/3/2025 APCK         Check # CC - ZOOM Video Communications Inc.                                            10.76          (10.76)
  10/31/2025 BKTR         Bank Transfer from Checking - Zions 982576647                            10.76                           0.00
   11/3/2025 APCK         Check # CC - ZOOM Video Communications Inc.                                            10.76          (10.76)
  11/28/2025 APCK         Check # CC - Utah League of Cities and Towns                                          225.00         (235.76)
  11/30/2025 APCK         Check # CC - Office Depot                                                             147.37         (383.13)
  11/30/2025 BKTR         Bank Transfer from Checking - Zions 982576647                           383.13                           0.00
   12/3/2025 APCK         Check # CC - ZOOM Video Communications Inc.                                            10.76          (10.76)
   12/3/2025 APCK         Check # CC - Utah League of Cities and Towns                                           75.00          (85.76)
   12/4/2025 APCK         Check # CC - Amazon.com                                                               277.42         (363.18)
   12/4/2025 APCK         Check # CC - Amazon.com                                                                46.18         (409.36)
  12/16/2025 APCK         Check # CC - Creative Awards                                                          325.02         (734.38)
  12/17/2025 APCK         Check # CC - Amazon.com                                                                 7.51         (741.89)
  12/17/2025 APCK         Check # CC - Amazon.com                                                                56.40         (798.29)
  12/18/2025 APCK         Check # CC - Amazon.com                                                               122.74         (921.03)
  12/19/2025 APCK         Check # CC - High Value Marking & Engraving                                            70.05         (991.08)
  12/31/2025 BKTR         Bank Transfer from Checking - Zions 982576647                           921.03                        (70.05)
   2/28/2026 JE           *1329 - Reallocate funds                                                 70.05                           0.00
   3/13/2026 APCK         Check # CC-Rori A. - ZOOM Video Communications Inc.                                     10.76         (10.76)
                                                                                             $6,415.23      ($6,425.99)        ($10.76)

10750 - Undeposited Receipts                                                                                                     ($0.40)
    7/1/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          150.00                         149.60
    7/1/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           150.01            (0.41)
    7/2/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          362.59                         362.18
    7/2/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           362.59            (0.41)
    7/3/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                         3,012.32                      3,011.91
    7/3/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                         3,012.32            (0.41)
    7/7/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                           90.90                           90.49
    7/7/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                            90.88            (0.39)
    7/8/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                           75.75                           75.36
    7/8/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                            75.75            (0.39)
   7/11/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                           90.90                           90.51
   7/11/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                            90.89            (0.38)
   7/15/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          400.00                         399.62
   7/15/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           400.02            (0.40)
   7/16/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          191.40                         191.00
   7/16/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           191.40            (0.40)
   7/17/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                           90.90                           90.50
   7/17/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                            90.91            (0.41)
   7/18/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                         3,717.69                      3,717.28
   7/18/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                         3,717.70            (0.42)
   7/23/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                     79,574.85                        79,574.43
   7/23/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                        79,574.82            (0.39)
   7/25/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                           90.90                           90.51
   7/25/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                            90.91            (0.40)
   7/29/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          125.00                         124.60
   7/29/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           125.00            (0.40)
   7/30/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          141.40                         141.00
   7/30/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           141.39            (0.39)
   7/31/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                         2,930.31                      2,929.92
   7/31/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                         2,930.31            (0.39)
    8/4/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          126.25                         125.86
    8/4/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           126.26            (0.40)
    8/8/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                         7,370.70                      7,370.30
    8/8/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                         7,370.70            (0.40)
   8/11/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                           70.70                           70.30
   8/11/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                            70.71            (0.41)
   8/12/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          250.00                         249.59
   8/12/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           249.99            (0.40)
   8/13/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          400.00                         399.60
   8/13/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           399.98            (0.38)
   8/14/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          100.00                           99.62
   8/14/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           100.00            (0.38)
   8/19/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          200.00                         199.62
   8/19/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           200.00            (0.38)
   8/21/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          770.70                         770.32
   8/21/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           770.73            (0.41)
   8/22/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                         3,146.51                      3,146.10
   8/22/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                         3,146.51            (0.41)
   8/25/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                     98,517.78                        98,517.37
                                                                       Page 5                                        5/28/2026 08:51 AM
                                            Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                         General Ledger for White City - 7/1/2025 to 6/30/2026
        Account                                                                                                             Balance
    Date        Code                                     Description                         Debit          Credit
10750 - Undeposited Receipts ( continued )
   8/25/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                        98,517.78            (0.41)
   8/26/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          126.25                         125.84
   8/26/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           126.22            (0.38)
   8/31/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                         3,841.35                      3,840.97
   8/31/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                         3,841.35            (0.38)
    9/2/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          146.45                         146.07
    9/2/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           146.45            (0.38)
    9/5/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          150.00                         149.62
    9/5/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           149.98            (0.36)
    9/8/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          210.00                         209.64
    9/8/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           210.01            (0.37)
   9/15/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          772.50                         772.13
   9/15/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           772.50            (0.37)
   9/16/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          217.15                         216.78
   9/16/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           217.15            (0.37)
   9/22/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                         5,107.53                      5,107.16
   9/22/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                        22,387.90      (17,280.74)
   9/23/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                    167,920.40                      150,639.66
   9/23/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                       167,920.40      (17,280.74)
   9/24/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          150.00                    (17,130.74)
   9/24/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           149.98      (17,280.72)
   9/25/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                           90.90                    (17,189.82)
   9/25/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                            90.89      (17,280.71)
   9/29/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                           75.75                    (17,204.96)
   9/29/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                            75.75      (17,280.71)
   9/30/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                         5,113.25                   (12,167.46)
   9/30/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                         5,113.23      (17,280.69)
   9/30/2025 JE         1250 - Undeposited receipts                                          17,280.35                            (0.34)
   10/1/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                         70.70                            70.36
   10/1/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                            70.65            (0.29)
   10/2/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                         1,355.48                      1,355.19
   10/2/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                         1,355.48            (0.29)
   10/3/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          146.45                         146.16
   10/3/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           146.46            (0.30)
   10/4/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          212.10                         211.80
   10/4/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           212.10            (0.30)
   10/6/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                           90.90                          90.60
   10/6/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                            90.91            (0.31)
   10/7/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                           70.70                          70.39
   10/7/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                            70.69            (0.30)
   10/9/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                           75.75                          75.45
   10/9/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                            75.75            (0.30)
  10/10/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                           75.75                          75.45
  10/10/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                            75.75            (0.30)
  10/15/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          246.90                         246.60
  10/15/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           246.93            (0.33)
  10/16/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          275.25                         274.92
  10/16/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           275.24            (0.32)
  10/20/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                         3,907.97                      3,907.65
  10/20/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                         3,244.92           662.73
  10/22/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          220.70                         883.43
  10/22/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           220.70           662.73
  10/23/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                     90,579.72                        91,242.45
  10/23/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                        90,579.70           662.75
  10/25/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           663.05            (0.30)
  10/27/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          133.32                         133.02
  10/27/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           133.31            (0.29)
  10/28/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          325.75                         325.46
  10/28/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           325.74            (0.28)
  10/29/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          252.50                         252.22
  10/29/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           252.45            (0.23)
  10/31/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                         4,520.31                      4,520.08
  10/31/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                         4,520.31            (0.23)
   11/3/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          125.00                         124.77
   11/3/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           124.97            (0.20)
   11/4/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          468.00                         467.80
   11/4/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           468.01            (0.21)
   11/5/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          370.47                         370.26
   11/5/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           370.43            (0.17)
   11/6/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          217.15                         216.98
   11/6/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           217.14            (0.16)
                                                                       Page 6                                       5/28/2026 08:51 AM
                                            Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                         General Ledger for White City - 7/1/2025 to 6/30/2026
        Account                                                                                                             Balance
    Date        Code                                     Description                         Debit          Credit
10750 - Undeposited Receipts ( continued )
  11/12/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                           90.90                          90.74
  11/12/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                            90.89            (0.15)
  11/14/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          198.00                         197.85
  11/14/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           198.00            (0.15)
  11/17/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          100.00                          99.85
  11/17/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           100.00            (0.15)
  11/20/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                    127,329.82                      127,329.67
  11/20/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                       127,329.82            (0.15)
  11/25/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          175.00                         174.85
  11/25/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           175.00            (0.15)
  11/30/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                         3,907.71                      3,907.56
  11/30/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                         3,907.71            (0.15)
   12/1/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          100.00                          99.85
   12/1/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           100.03            (0.18)
   12/2/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          228.00                         227.82
   12/2/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           227.99            (0.17)
   12/4/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          181.80                         181.63
   12/4/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           181.78            (0.15)
   12/5/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                           90.90                          90.75
   12/5/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                            90.92            (0.17)
   12/8/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          250.00                         249.83
   12/8/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           250.00            (0.17)
   12/9/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          250.00                         249.83
   12/9/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           250.00            (0.17)
  12/10/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          372.55                         372.38
  12/10/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           372.55            (0.17)
  12/18/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          217.15                         216.98
  12/18/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           217.14            (0.16)
  12/20/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                     79,641.20                       79,641.04
  12/20/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                        79,641.20            (0.16)
  12/22/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                           70.70                          70.54
  12/22/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                            70.70            (0.16)
  12/23/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          305.70                         305.54
  12/23/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           305.68            (0.14)
  12/24/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                           70.70                          70.56
  12/24/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                            70.70            (0.14)
  12/26/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                           70.70                          70.56
  12/26/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                            70.71            (0.15)
  12/29/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                           70.70                          70.55
  12/29/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                            70.73            (0.18)
  12/30/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                           70.70                          70.52
  12/30/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                            70.70            (0.18)
  12/31/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                         3,887.44                      3,887.26
  12/31/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                         3,887.44            (0.18)
    1/2/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          545.24                         545.06
    1/2/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           545.24            (0.18)
    1/5/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                           70.70                          70.52
    1/5/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                            70.70            (0.18)
    1/6/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          162.00                         161.82
    1/6/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           162.00            (0.18)
    1/9/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                           90.90                          90.72
    1/9/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                            90.89            (0.17)
   1/13/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                           111.10                        110.93
   1/13/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           111.08            (0.15)
   1/22/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          250.00                         249.85
   1/22/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           250.00            (0.15)
   1/27/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                    103,481.03                      103,480.88
   1/27/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                       103,481.02            (0.14)
   1/28/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                          545.24                         545.10
   1/28/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                           545.24            (0.14)
   1/31/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                         3,448.22                      3,448.08
   1/31/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                         3,448.22            (0.14)
    2/4/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                     45,499.16                       45,499.02
    2/4/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                        45,499.16            (0.14)
   2/26/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                     98,302.30                       98,302.16
   2/26/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                        98,302.30            (0.14)
   2/28/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                         3,119.46                      3,119.32
   2/28/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                         3,119.46            (0.14)
    3/6/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                      1,500.00                         1,499.86
   3/23/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                     72,533.22                       74,033.08
   3/23/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                        72,533.22         1,499.86
                                                                       Page 7                                       5/28/2026 08:51 AM
                                             Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                          General Ledger for White City - 7/1/2025 to 6/30/2026
        Account                                                                                                                       Balance
    Date        Code                                     Description                                    Debit          Credit
10750 - Undeposited Receipts ( continued )
   3/31/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                                  3,656.13                        5,155.99
   3/31/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                                     3,656.13        1,499.86
    4/2/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                                     70.70                        1,570.56
    4/6/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                                     90.90                        1,661.46
    4/7/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                                    125.00                        1,786.46
    4/8/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                                    272.70                        2,059.16
   4/14/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                                  1,275.75                        3,334.91
   4/15/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                                    320.70                        3,655.61
   4/16/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                                  1,488.04                        5,143.65
   4/17/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                                    150.00                        5,293.65
   4/24/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                                     70.70                        5,364.35
   4/28/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                                    700.00                        6,064.35
   4/30/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                                     3,364.60        2,699.75
    5/1/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                                   100.00                         2,799.75
    5/1/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                                       67.04         2,732.71
    5/3/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                                       32.97         2,699.74
    5/4/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                                   215.90                         2,915.64
    5/4/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                                      215.92         2,699.72
    5/6/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                                    75.75                         2,775.47
    5/6/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                                       75.78         2,699.69
    5/7/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                                  1,271.03                        3,970.72
    5/7/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                                     1,271.05        2,699.67
    5/8/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                                  1,426.54                        4,126.21
    5/8/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                                     1,426.55        2,699.66
   5/11/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                                  1,052.48                        3,752.14
   5/11/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                                     1,052.46        2,699.68
   5/12/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                                   952.00                         3,651.68
   5/12/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                                      952.03         2,699.65
   5/13/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                                  1,981.80                        4,681.45
   5/13/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                                     1,981.79        2,699.66
   5/15/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                                    90.90                         2,790.56
   5/15/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                                       90.90         2,699.66
   5/18/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                                   250.00                         2,949.66
   5/27/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                                       249.99        2,699.67
                                                                                                     $1,069,915.56 ($1,067,215.49)       $2,699.67

12500 - Due From Other Gov.                                                                                                           $233,780.41
    7/1/2025 JE         1244 - PB_TRAN_TAX                                                                1,700.98                     235,481.39
    7/3/2025 NBPT       Receipt 55605: Salt Lake County Justice Court - Justice Court - May 2025                          3,012.32     232,469.07
   7/18/2025 NBPT       Receipt 54598: Salt Lake County Justice Court - Justice Court - Jun 2025                          3,530.43     228,938.64
   7/23/2025 NBPT       Receipt 55181: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - Sales Tax                               71,067.95     157,870.69
   7/23/2025 NBPT       Receipt 55181: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - County Highway &                         6,767.85     151,102.84
                        Public Transit - Local Portion
   7/23/2025 NBPT       Receipt 56393: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - PB_TRAN_TAX                               918.35      150,184.49
   7/31/2025 JE         1175 - Income Accrual                                                            67,111.26                     217,295.75
   7/31/2025 JE         1175 - Income Accrual                                                             6,184.06                     223,479.81
   7/31/2025 JE         1176 - Income Accrual - Justice Court Receipts                                    3,146.51                     226,626.32
   7/31/2025 JE         1175 - Income Accrual                                                             3,099.67                     229,725.99
   8/22/2025 NBPT       Receipt 55608: Salt Lake City Justice Court - Justice Court - Jul 2025                            3,146.51     226,579.48
   8/25/2025 NBPT       Receipt 56395: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - County Highway &                         8,275.88     218,303.60
                        Public Transit - Local Portion
   8/25/2025 NBPT       Receipt 56395: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - Sales Tax                               88,540.92     129,762.68
   8/25/2025 NBPT       Receipt 56397: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - PB_TRAN_TAX                              1,700.98     128,061.70
   8/31/2025 JE         1224 - Income Accrual - Aug 2025                                                 5,031.78                      133,093.48
   8/31/2025 JE         1224 - Income Accrual - Aug 2025                                                79,096.88                      212,190.36
   8/31/2025 JE         1224 - Income Accrual - Aug 2025                                                 7,406.93                      219,597.29
   8/31/2025 JE         1224 - Income Accrual - Aug 2025                                                39,858.69                      259,455.98
   8/31/2025 JE         1224 - Income Accrual - Aug 2025                                                 3,750.17                      263,206.15
   9/22/2025 NBPT       Receipt 55609: Salt Lake City Justice Court - Justice Court - Aug 2025                            5,031.78     258,174.37
   9/22/2025 NBPT       Receipt 55611: Greater Salt Lake Municipal Sevices District - 8601 Enerrgy                       17,280.35     240,894.02
                        08/25 for White City
   9/22/2025 NBPT       Receipt 56542: Greater Salt Lake Municipal Sevices District - 8601 Enerrgy      17,280.35                      258,174.37
                        08/25 for White City
   9/23/2025 NBPT       Receipt 56399: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - Sales Tax                               67,111.26     191,063.11
   9/23/2025 NBPT       Receipt 56477: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - County Highway &                         6,184.06     184,879.05
                        Public Transit - Local Portion
   9/23/2025 NBPT       Receipt 56478: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - B&C                                     51,666.72     133,212.33
   9/23/2025 NBPT       Receipt 56478: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - B&C                                     39,858.69      93,353.64
   9/23/2025 NBPT       Receipt 56537: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - PB_TRAN_TAX                              3,099.67      90,253.97
   9/30/2025 JE         1243 - Income Accrual                                                           72,980.64                      163,234.61
   9/30/2025 JE         1243 - Income Accrual                                                            6,804.99                      170,039.60
                                                                        Page 8                                                  5/28/2026 08:51 AM
                                             Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                          General Ledger for White City - 7/1/2025 to 6/30/2026
        Account                                                                                                                     Balance
    Date        Code                                       Description                               Debit           Credit
12500 - Due From Other Gov. ( continued )
   9/30/2025 JE         1243 - Income Accrual - Justice Court Receipts                                 3,094.92                      173,134.52
   9/30/2025 JE         1243 - Income Accrual                                                          3,415.18                      176,549.70
  10/20/2025 NBPT       Receipt 56485: Salt Lake City Justice Court - Justice Court - Sept 2025                        3,094.92      173,454.78
  10/20/2025 NBPT       Receipt 58927: Salt Lake County Justice Court - Justice Court                                    663.05      172,791.73
  10/23/2025 NBPT       Receipt 57166: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - PTIF receipt                          7,406.93      165,384.80
  10/23/2025 NBPT       Receipt 57166: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - PTIF receipt                          3,750.17      161,634.63
  10/23/2025 NBPT       Receipt 57166: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - PTIF receipt                         79,096.87       82,537.76
  10/31/2025 JE         1268 - Accrue Income                                                          69,878.95                      152,416.71
  10/31/2025 JE         1268 - Accrue Income                                                           6,481.99                      158,898.70
  10/31/2025 JE         1268 - Accrue Income                                                          44,129.01                      203,027.71
  10/31/2025 JE         1268 - Accrue Income Oct 2025                                                  3,280.26                      206,307.97
  10/31/2025 JE         1268 - Accrue Income Oct 2025                                                    663.05                      206,971.02
  11/20/2025 NBPT       Receipt 57716: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - B&C                                  44,129.01      162,842.01
  11/20/2025 NBPT       Receipt 57716: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - SB 136                                6,804.99      156,037.02
  11/20/2025 NBPT       Receipt 57716: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - Sales Tax                            72,980.64       83,056.38
  11/20/2025 NBPT       Receipt 57717: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - County Public                         3,415.18       79,641.20
                        Transit Tax
  11/30/2025 JE         1278 - Income Accrual                                                         86,288.35                      165,929.55
  11/30/2025 JE         1278 - Income Accrual                                                          8,500.06                      174,429.61
  11/30/2025 JE         1278 - Income Accrual                                                          4,360.15                      178,789.76
  11/30/2025 JE         1278 - Income Accrual                                                            549.69                      179,339.45
  12/20/2025 NBPT       Receipt 58155: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - Sales Tax                            69,878.95      109,460.50
  12/20/2025 NBPT       Receipt 58155: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - SB 136                                6,481.99      102,978.51
  12/20/2025 NBPT       Receipt 58155: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - PB_TRAN_TAX                           3,280.26       99,698.25
  12/31/2025 JE         1309 - Accrue Income                                                          86,288.35                      185,986.60
  12/31/2025 JE         1309 - Accrue Income                                                           7,939.47                      193,926.07
  12/31/2025 JE         1309 - Accrue Income                                                          45,499.16                      239,425.23
  12/31/2025 JE         1309 - Accrue Income                                                           4,074.48                      243,499.71
   1/27/2026 NBPT       Receipt 58871: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - County Highway &                      8,500.06      234,999.65
                        Public Transit - Local Portion
   1/27/2026 NBPT       Receipt 58871: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - Sales Tax - Nov                      90,550.12      144,449.53
                        2025
   1/27/2026 NBPT       Receipt 58872: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - PB_TRAN_TAX                           4,360.15      140,089.38
   1/31/2026 JE         1316 - Income Accrual                                                         63,563.09                      203,652.47
   1/31/2026 JE         1316 - Income Accrual                                                          5,895.31                      209,547.78
   1/31/2026 JE         1316 - Income Accrual                                                          3,074.82                      212,622.60
    2/4/2026 NBPT       Receipt 58912: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - B&C                                  45,499.16      167,123.44
   2/26/2026 NBPT       Receipt 58913: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - Sales Tax                            86,288.35       80,835.09
   2/26/2026 NBPT       Receipt 58913: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - County Highway &                      7,939.47       72,895.62
                        Public Transit - Local Portion
   2/26/2026 NBPT       Receipt 58913: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - County Public                         4,074.48        68,821.14
                        Transit Tax
   2/28/2026 JE         1324 - Income Accrual                                                         71,253.35                      140,074.49
   2/28/2026 JE         1324 - Income Accrual                                                          6,641.93                      146,716.42
   2/28/2026 JE         1324 - Income Accrual                                                         39,747.57                      186,463.99
   2/28/2026 JE         1324 - Income Accrual                                                          3,340.72                      189,804.71
    3/6/2026 NBPT       Receipt 58884: State of Utah - Division of Finance - 250 year celebration                      1,500.00      188,304.71
   3/23/2026 NBPT       Receipt 58937: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - Sales Tax                            63,563.09      124,741.62
   3/23/2026 NBPT       Receipt 58938: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - County Highway &                      5,895.31      118,846.31
                        Public Transit - Local Portion
   3/23/2026 NBPT       Receipt 58939: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - County Public                         3,074.82       115,771.49
                        Transit - Local
   3/31/2026 JE         1320 - Dept of Gov Operations - UT Community Stipend for America 250           1,500.00                       117,271.49
                        celebration
   3/31/2026 JE         1348 - Income Accrual                                                       100,000.00                       217,271.49
   3/31/2026 JE         1348 - Income Accrual                                                        10,000.00                       227,271.49
   3/31/2026 JE         1348 - Income Accrual                                                         3,000.00                       230,271.49
   4/14/2026 NBPT       Receipt 58928: State of Utah - Division of Finance - 250 Year Celebration                      1,200.00      229,071.49
   4/30/2026 JE         1346 - Dept of Gov Operations - UT Community Stipend for America 250           1,200.00                      230,271.49
                        celebration
                                                                                                    $997,112.77 ($1,000,621.69)     $230,271.49

21000 - Accounts Payable                                                                                                             ($8,050.00)
    7/1/2025 APCK        Check # ACH.0701251130.7 - Ashtree Legal Services PC                          6,000.00                       (2,050.00)
    7/1/2025 APCK        Check # ACH.0701251132.81 - DS Accounting Services, LLC                       1,250.00                         (800.00)
    7/1/2025 APCK        Check # ACH.0701251135.429 - Positive Impact Consulting, LLC                  7,000.00                         6,200.00
    7/1/2025 APCK        VOID - Check # ACH.0701251135.429 - Positive Impact Consulting, LLC                           7,000.00         (800.00)
    7/1/2025 AP          INV: WC25 Utah League of Cities and Towns                                                     3,092.93       (3,892.93)
    7/1/2025 AP          INV: 240701 White City Water Improvement District                                               300.00       (4,192.93)
    7/2/2025 AP          INV: CCO0000448 Salt Lake County Clerk                                                          500.00       (4,692.93)
    7/7/2025 APCK        Check # 4176 - Utah League of Cities and Towns                                3,092.93                       (1,600.00)
                                                                       Page 9                                                 5/28/2026 08:51 AM
                                            Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                         General Ledger for White City - 7/1/2025 to 6/30/2026
        Account                                                                                                            Balance
    Date        Code                                     Description                         Debit          Credit
21000 - Accounts Payable ( continued )
    7/8/2025 APCK       Check # ACH.0708251136.36 - Salt Lake County Clerk                        500.00                     (1,100.00)
    7/8/2025 AP         INV: M1621137 Utah Local Governments Trust                                            7,332.78       (8,432.78)
    7/8/2025 AP         INV: M1621138 Utah Local Governments Trust                                            1,780.56      (10,213.34)
    7/8/2025 AP         INV: M1621139 Utah Local Governments Trust                                              833.25      (11,046.59)
   7/14/2025 AP         INV: 250714 White City Water Improvement District                                     1,200.00      (12,246.59)
   7/31/2025 AP         INV: 2025-0294 DS Accounting Services, LLC                                            1,250.00      (13,496.59)
   7/31/2025 AP         INV: WCJuly25 Ashtree Legal Services PC                                               6,000.00      (19,496.59)
   7/31/2025 AP         INV: 125 Positive Impact Consulting, LLC                                              7,000.00      (26,496.59)
   7/31/2025 AP         INV: 61BCFC47-0007 Streamline Software, Inc.                                            800.00      (27,296.59)
    8/1/2025 APCK       Check # ACH.0801250958.3009 - Streamline Software, Inc.                   800.00                    (26,496.59)
    8/1/2025 AP         INV: 61BCFC47-0008 Streamline Software, Inc.                                            800.00      (27,296.59)
    8/4/2025 APCK       Check # ACH.0804251205.3009 - Streamline Software, Inc.                  1,600.00                   (25,696.59)
    8/6/2025 APCK       Check # ACH.0806251058.29 - Utah Local Governments Trust                 9,946.59                   (15,750.00)
    8/7/2025 APCK       Check # ACH.0807251111.81 - DS Accounting Services, LLC                  1,250.00                   (14,500.00)
    8/7/2025 APCK       Check # ACH.0807251113.7 - Ashtree Legal Services PC                     6,000.00                    (8,500.00)
    8/8/2025 APCK       Check # ACH.0808251221.429 - Positive Impact Consulting, LLC             7,000.00                    (1,500.00)
   8/27/2025 AP         INV: 95184 Corporate Edge Printing Services                                           2,760.68       (4,260.68)
   8/31/2025 AP         INV: 2025-0321 DS Accounting Services, LLC                                            1,250.00       (5,510.68)
   8/31/2025 AP         INV: WCAug25 Ashtree Legal Services PC                                                6,000.00      (11,510.68)
   8/31/2025 AP         INV: 9MW58 Office Depot                                                                   1.86      (11,512.54)
   8/31/2025 APCK       Check # CC - Office Depot                                                    1.86                   (11,510.68)
   8/31/2025 APCK       VOID - Check # CC - Office Depot                                                          1.86      (11,512.54)
   8/31/2025 AP         VOID INV: 9MW58 Office Depot                                                 1.86                   (11,510.68)
    9/1/2025 AP         INV: 126 Positive Impact Consulting, LLC                                              7,000.00      (18,510.68)
    9/1/2025 AP         INV: 342763 CivicPlus, LLC                                                            1,323.00      (19,833.68)
    9/1/2025 AP         INV: 61BCFC47-0009 Streamline Software, Inc.                                            800.00      (20,633.68)
    9/2/2025 APCK       Check # ACH.0902251412.81 - DS Accounting Services, LLC                  1,250.00                   (19,383.68)
    9/2/2025 APCK       Check # ACH.0902251413.429 - Positive Impact Consulting, LLC             7,000.00                   (12,383.68)
    9/2/2025 APCK       Check # ACH.0902251419.3009 - Streamline Software, Inc.                    800.00                   (11,583.68)
    9/3/2025 AP         INV: 2X4YH ZOOM Video Communications Inc.                                                10.76      (11,594.44)
    9/3/2025 APCK       Check # CC - ZOOM Video Communications Inc.                                 10.76                   (11,583.68)
    9/4/2025 APCK       Check # ACH.0904250810.7 - Ashtree Legal Services PC                     6,000.00                    (5,583.68)
   9/10/2025 AP         INV: MSD25228 Andreason, Rori                                                            96.00       (5,679.68)
   9/11/2025 APCK       Check # ACH.0911251312.26 - Corporate Edge Printing Services             2,760.68                    (2,919.00)
   9/11/2025 APCK       Check # 4330 - Andreason, Rori                                              96.00                    (2,823.00)
   9/19/2025 AP         INV: QN2D93 Steve's Black Sabbath BBQ                                                 4,807.60       (7,630.60)
   9/19/2025 APCK       Check # CC - Steve's Black Sabbath BBQ                                   4,807.60                    (2,823.00)
   9/21/2025 AP         INV: MSD25238 Andreason, Rori                                                           221.03       (3,044.03)
   9/26/2025 AP         INV: 024993 Zurchers Party                                                              210.04       (3,254.07)
   9/26/2025 APCK       Check # CC - Zurchers Party                                               210.04                     (3,044.03)
   9/30/2025 AP         INV: 2025-0346 DS Accounting Services, LLC                                            1,250.00       (4,294.03)
   9/30/2025 AP         INV: 127 Positive Impact Consulting, LLC                                              7,000.00      (11,294.03)
   9/30/2025 AP         INV: WCSep25 Ashtree Legal Services PC                                                6,000.00      (17,294.03)
   10/1/2025 AP         INV: 61BCFC47-0010 Streamline Software, Inc.                                            800.00      (18,094.03)
   10/2/2025 APCK       Check # ACH.1002251320.81 - DS Accounting Services, LLC                  1,250.00                   (16,844.03)
   10/2/2025 APCK       Check # ACH.1002251421.7 - Ashtree Legal Services PC                     6,000.00                   (10,844.03)
   10/2/2025 APCK       Check # ACH.1002251423.429 - Positive Impact Consulting, LLC             7,000.00                    (3,844.03)
   10/2/2025 APCK       Check # ACH.1002250950.3009 - Streamline Software, Inc.                    800.00                    (3,044.03)
   10/3/2025 APCK       Check # 4361 - Andreason, Rori                                             221.03                    (2,823.00)
   10/3/2025 APCK       Check # 4362 - CivicPlus, LLC                                            1,323.00                    (1,500.00)
   10/3/2025 AP         INV: 8T1F4J ZOOM Video Communications Inc.                                               10.76       (1,510.76)
   10/3/2025 APCK       Check # CC - ZOOM Video Communications Inc.                                10.76                     (1,500.00)
  10/20/2025 AP         INV: 251020 White City Water Improvement District                                     2,712.05       (4,212.05)
  10/28/2025 APCK       Check # 4418 - White City Water Improvement District                     2,712.05                    (1,500.00)
  10/28/2025 APCK       Check # 4422 - White City Water Improvement District                     1,500.00                          0.00
  10/31/2025 AP         INV: WCOct25 Ashtree Legal Services PC                                                6,000.00       (6,000.00)
  10/31/2025 AP         INV: 128 Positive Impact Consulting, LLC                                              7,000.00      (13,000.00)
  10/31/2025 AP         INV: 2025-0374 DS Accounting Services, LLC                                            1,250.00      (14,250.00)
   11/1/2025 AP         INV: 61BCFC47-0011 Streamline Software, Inc.                                            800.00      (15,050.00)
   11/3/2025 APCK       Check # ACH.1103251116.3009 - Streamline Software, Inc.                   800.00                    (14,250.00)
   11/3/2025 AP         INV: d01lx ZOOM Video Communications Inc.                                                10.76      (14,260.76)
   11/3/2025 APCK       Check # CC - ZOOM Video Communications Inc.                                 10.76                   (14,250.00)
   11/5/2025 APCK       Check # ACH.1105250747.7 - Ashtree Legal Services PC                     6,000.00                    (8,250.00)
   11/5/2025 APCK       Check # ACH.1105250748.429 - Positive Impact Consulting, LLC             7,000.00                    (1,250.00)
   11/5/2025 APCK       Check # ACH.1105250750.81 - DS Accounting Services, LLC                  1,250.00                          0.00
  11/28/2025 AP         INV: qtby3 Utah League of Cities and Towns                                              225.00         (225.00)
  11/28/2025 APCK       Check # CC - Utah League of Cities and Towns                              225.00                           0.00
  11/30/2025 AP         INV: WCNov25 Ashtree Legal Services PC                                                6,000.00       (6,000.00)
  11/30/2025 AP         INV: 2025-0400 DS Accounting Services, LLC                                            1,250.00       (7,250.00)
  11/30/2025 AP         INV: 129 Positive Impact Consulting, LLC                                              7,000.00      (14,250.00)
  11/30/2025 AP         INV: 1L1YQI Office Depot                                                                147.37      (14,397.37)
                                                                      Page 10                                       5/28/2026 08:51 AM
                                            Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                         General Ledger for White City - 7/1/2025 to 6/30/2026
        Account                                                                                                             Balance
    Date        Code                                      Description                        Debit          Credit
21000 - Accounts Payable ( continued )
  11/30/2025 APCK       Check # CC - Office Depot                                                 147.37                    (14,250.00)
   12/1/2025 AP         INV: 61BCF47-0013 Streamline Software, Inc.                                             800.00      (15,050.00)
   12/2/2025 APCK       Check # ACH.1202251117.3009 - Streamline Software, Inc.                   800.00                    (14,250.00)
   12/3/2025 AP         INV: 98RT93 ZOOM Video Communications Inc.                                               10.76      (14,260.76)
   12/3/2025 APCK       Check # CC - ZOOM Video Communications Inc.                                10.76                    (14,250.00)
   12/3/2025 AP         INV: 5VAJ17 Utah League of Cities and Towns                                              75.00      (14,325.00)
   12/3/2025 APCK       Check # CC - Utah League of Cities and Towns                                75.00                   (14,250.00)
   12/4/2025 APCK       Check # ACH.1204251502.429 - Positive Impact Consulting, LLC             7,000.00                    (7,250.00)
   12/4/2025 APCK       Check # ACH.1204251503.81 - DS Accounting Services, LLC                  1,250.00                    (6,000.00)
   12/4/2025 APCK       Check # ACH.1204251504.7 - Ashtree Legal Services PC                     6,000.00                           0.00
   12/4/2025 AP         INV: bhfgz Amazon.com                                                                   277.42          (277.42)
   12/4/2025 APCK       Check # CC - Amazon.com                                                   277.42                            0.00
   12/4/2025 AP         INV: st4xf Amazon.com                                                                    46.18           (46.18)
   12/4/2025 APCK       Check # CC - Amazon.com                                                    46.18                            0.00
   12/9/2025 AP         INV: 95866 Corporate Edge Printing Services                                           1,285.14       (1,285.14)
  12/16/2025 APCK       Check # ACH.1216251006.26 - Corporate Edge Printing Services             1,285.14                           0.00
  12/16/2025 AP         INV: 4jr44y Creative Awards                                                             325.02          (325.02)
  12/16/2025 APCK       Check # CC - Creative Awards                                              325.02                            0.00
  12/17/2025 AP         INV: 9a0fl Amazon.com                                                                        7.51         (7.51)
  12/17/2025 APCK       Check # CC - Amazon.com                                                      7.51                           0.00
  12/17/2025 AP         INV: 78ba6 Amazon.com                                                                    56.40           (56.40)
  12/17/2025 APCK       Check # CC - Amazon.com                                                    56.40                            0.00
  12/18/2025 AP         INV: z0vn4 Amazon.com                                                                   122.74          (122.74)
  12/18/2025 APCK       Check # CC - Amazon.com                                                   122.74                            0.00
  12/19/2025 AP         INV: 43006 High Value Marking & Engraving                                                70.05           (70.05)
  12/19/2025 APCK       Check # CC - High Value Marking & Engraving                                70.05                            0.00
  12/24/2025 AP         INV: 130 Positive Impact Consulting, LLC                                              7,000.00       (7,000.00)
  12/24/2025 AP         INV: 2025-0420 DS Accounting Services, LLC                                            1,250.00       (8,250.00)
  12/26/2025 AP         INV: WCDec25 Ashtree Legal Services PC                                                6,000.00      (14,250.00)
  12/29/2025 APCK       Check # ACH.1229251001.7 - Ashtree Legal Services PC                     6,000.00                    (8,250.00)
  12/29/2025 APCK       Check # ACH.1229251002.429 - Positive Impact Consulting, LLC             7,000.00                    (1,250.00)
  12/29/2025 APCK       Check # ACH.1229251005.81 - DS Accounting Services, LLC                  1,250.00                           0.00
  12/31/2025 AP         INV: CCO0000511 Salt Lake County Mayors Financial Administration                      9,360.97       (9,360.97)
  12/31/2025 AP         INV: 1623440 Utah Local Governments Trust                                               125.64       (9,486.61)
    1/1/2026 AP         INV: 61BCFC47-0014 Streamline Software, Inc.                                            800.00      (10,286.61)
    1/2/2026 APCK       Check # ACH.0102261205.3009 - Streamline Software, Inc.                   800.00                     (9,486.61)
    1/2/2026 AP         INV: 010226 ZOOM Video Communications Inc.                                               10.76       (9,497.37)
    1/7/2026 AP         INV: 010726-Rori A- 1 Walmart Super Center                                                5.89       (9,503.26)
    1/7/2026 AP         INV: 010726-Rori A. - 2 Walmart Super Center                                             12.88       (9,516.14)
    1/7/2026 AP         INV: 12100 Isabellas, Isabellas Catering or Isabellas 2 Go                              750.00      (10,266.14)
    1/9/2026 AP         INV: 010926 DocuSign, Inc.                                                              128.94      (10,395.08)
    1/9/2026 APCK       Check # ACH.0109261218.19 - Salt Lake County Mayors Financial            9,360.97                     (1,034.11)
                        Administration
   1/21/2026 APCK       Check # ACH.0121260917.29 - Utah Local Governments Trust                  125.64                       (908.47)
   1/28/2026 AP         INV: DE6-51C-F35 Faces Photography                                                      583.70       (1,492.17)
   1/30/2026 AP         INV: INV3482304 Paylocity                                                               188.96       (1,681.13)
   1/30/2026 APCK       Check # EFT - Paylocity                                                   188.96                     (1,492.17)
   1/31/2026 AP         INV: WCJan2026 Ashtree Legal Services PC                                              6,000.00       (7,492.17)
   1/31/2026 AP         INV: 2026-0038 DS Accounting Services, LLC                                            1,250.00       (8,742.17)
   1/31/2026 AP         INV: 131 Positive Impact Consulting, LLC                                              7,000.00      (15,742.17)
    2/1/2026 AP         INV: 61BCFC47-0015 Streamline Software, Inc.                                            840.00      (16,582.17)
    2/2/2026 AP         INV: GYF48 ZOOM Video Communications Inc.                                                10.76      (16,592.93)
    2/3/2026 APCK       Check # ACH.0203261530.429 - Positive Impact Consulting, LLC             7,000.00                    (9,592.93)
    2/6/2026 APCK       Check # ACH.0206261230.7 - Ashtree Legal Services PC                     6,000.00                    (3,592.93)
   2/12/2026 APCK       Check # ACH.0212261316.3009 - Streamline Software, Inc.                    840.00                    (2,752.93)
   2/18/2026 APCK       Check # ACH.0218261157.81 - DS Accounting Services, LLC                  1,250.00                    (1,502.93)
   2/19/2026 AP         INV: 43280 High Value Marking & Engraving                                                70.05       (1,572.98)
   2/20/2026 AP         INV: INV3548620 Paylocity                                                               188.50       (1,761.48)
   2/20/2026 APCK       Check # EFT - Paylocity                                                   188.50                     (1,572.98)
   2/28/2026 AP         INV: WCFeb2026 Ashtree Legal Services PC                                              6,000.00       (7,572.98)
   2/28/2026 AP         INV: 132 Positive Impact Consulting, LLC                                              7,000.00      (14,572.98)
    3/1/2026 AP         INV: 61BCFC47-0016 Streamline Software, Inc.                                            840.00      (15,412.98)
    3/1/2026 AP         INV: KAQME Google, LLC                                                                1,176.00      (16,588.98)
    3/2/2026 AP         INV: RBQM5 ZOOM Video Communications Inc.                                                10.76      (16,599.74)
    3/4/2026 APCK       Check # ACH.0304261649.429 - Positive Impact Consulting, LLC             7,000.00                    (9,599.74)
    3/5/2026 AP         INV: 15MFX Office Depot                                                                 130.51       (9,730.25)
    3/9/2026 APCK       Check # ACH.0309261435.7 - Ashtree Legal Services PC                     6,000.00                    (3,730.25)
    3/9/2026 APCK       Check # ACH.0309261449.3009 - Streamline Software, Inc.                    840.00                    (2,890.25)
   3/12/2026 APCK       Check # CC-Maridene - Faces Photography                                    583.70                    (2,306.55)
   3/13/2026 APCK       Check # CC-Rori A. - ZOOM Video Communications Inc.                         10.76                    (2,295.79)
   3/13/2026 APCK       Check # CC-Rori A. - Walmart Super Center                                   18.77                    (2,277.02)
                                                                         Page 11                                    5/28/2026 08:51 AM
                                              Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                           General Ledger for White City - 7/1/2025 to 6/30/2026
        Account                                                                                                                    Balance
    Date        Code                                       Description                              Debit          Credit
21000 - Accounts Payable ( continued )
   3/13/2026 APCK       Check # CC-Rori A, - DocuSign, Inc.                                            128.94                        (2,148.08)
   3/20/2026 AP         INV: INV3630279 Paylocity                                                                      188.50        (2,336.58)
   3/20/2026 APCK       Check # EFT - Paylocity                                                        188.50                        (2,148.08)
   3/23/2026 APCK       Check # CC-Rori A. - Isabellas, Isabellas Catering or Isabellas 2 Go           750.00                        (1,398.08)
   3/26/2026 AP         INV: WhiCit-ER-032626 State of Utah                                                             25.00        (1,423.08)
   3/26/2026 AP         INV: MSD03-26-2026 White City Community Council                                             53,000.00       (54,423.08)
   3/26/2026 AP         VOID INV: MSD03-26-2026 White City Community Council                         53,000.00                       (1,423.08)
   3/26/2026 AP         INV: MSD03-26-2026 White City Township Community Council, Inc.                              53,000.00       (54,423.08)
   3/30/2026 APCK       Check # 4730 - State of Utah                                                     25.00                      (54,398.08)
   3/30/2026 APCK       Check # 4733 - White City Township Community Council, Inc.                   53,000.00                       (1,398.08)
   3/31/2026 APCK       Check # CC- MA - High Value Marking & Engraving                                  70.05                       (1,328.03)
   3/31/2026 APCK       Check # CC- RA - ZOOM Video Communications Inc.                                  10.76                       (1,317.27)
   3/31/2026 AP         INV: 133 Positive Impact Consulting, LLC                                                     7,000.00        (8,317.27)
   3/31/2026 AP         INV: WCMar2026 Ashtree Legal Services PC                                                     6,000.00       (14,317.27)
   3/31/2026 AP         INV: 2026-0058 DS Accounting Services, LLC                                                   2,500.00       (16,817.27)
    4/1/2026 AP         INV: 61BCFC47-0017 Streamline Software, Inc.                                                   840.00       (17,657.27)
    4/6/2026 APCK       Check # ACH.0406261321.7 - Ashtree Legal Services PC                          6,000.00                      (11,657.27)
    4/6/2026 APCK       Check # ACH.0406261327.429 - Positive Impact Consulting, LLC                  7,000.00                       (4,657.27)
    4/6/2026 APCK       Check # ACH.0406261332.3009 - Streamline Software, Inc.                         840.00                       (3,817.27)
    4/6/2026 APCK       Check # ACH.0406261324.81 - DS Accounting Services, LLC                       2,500.00                       (1,317.27)
   4/20/2026 AP         INV: INV3723177 Paylocity                                                                      188.50        (1,505.77)
   4/20/2026 APCK       Check # EFT - Paylocity                                                         188.50                       (1,317.27)
   4/21/2026 APCK       Check # CC- RA - ZOOM Video Communications Inc.                                  10.76                       (1,306.51)
   4/21/2026 APCK       Check # CC- RA - Office Depot                                                   130.51                       (1,176.00)
   4/21/2026 APCK       Check # CC- Mark S. - Google, LLC                                             1,176.00                             0.00
   4/30/2026 AP         INV: 134 Positive Impact Consulting, LLC                                                     7,000.00        (7,000.00)
   4/30/2026 AP         INV: WCApr2026 Ashtree Legal Services PC                                                     6,000.00       (13,000.00)
    5/1/2026 AP         INV: 61BCFC47-0018 Streamline Software, Inc.                                                   840.00       (13,840.00)
    5/5/2026 APCK       Check # ACH.0505261235.7 - Ashtree Legal Services PC                          6,000.00                       (7,840.00)
    5/5/2026 APCK       Check # ACH.0505261239.429 - Positive Impact Consulting, LLC                  7,000.00                         (840.00)
    5/5/2026 APCK       Check # ACH.0505261255.3009 - Streamline Software, Inc.                         840.00                             0.00
   5/20/2026 AP         INV: INV3810703 Paylocity                                                                      213.50          (213.50)
   5/20/2026 APCK       Check # EFT - Paylocity                                                        213.50                              0.00
   5/20/2026 AP         INV: MSD-05202026 White City Community Council                                               2,700.00        (2,700.00)
   5/21/2026 AP         INV: 31833 West Wind Litho                                                                     844.98        (3,544.98)
   5/26/2026 APCK       Check # 4841 - White City Community Council                                   2,700.00                         (844.98)
   5/26/2026 APCK       Check # ACH.0526261133.422 - West Wind Litho                                    844.98                             0.00
   5/26/2026 APCK       VOID - Check # ACH.0526261133.422 - West Wind Litho                                             844.98         (844.98)
                                                                                                   $318,029.31   ($310,824.29)        ($844.98)

23450 - Performance Bonds Payable                                                                                                    ($653.00)

24000 - Due to Other Funds                                                                                                       ($233,792.71)
    7/1/2025 JE          1204 - Reverse due from funds                                              233,792.71                            0.00
                                                                                                   $233,792.71                           $0.00

29000 - Unassigned Net Position (Fund Bal)                                                                                       ($752,372.84)
  11/26/2025 JE         1272 - Move funds to Assigned Capital Capital                               600,000.00                    (152,372.84)
                                                                                                   $600,000.00                   ($152,372.84)

29010 - Assigned Capital Fund                                                                                                    ($167,300.00)
  11/26/2025 JE           1272 - Move funds to Assigned Capital Capital                                             600,000.00    (767,300.00)
                                                                                                                 ($600,000.00)   ($767,300.00)

3100.130 - Business Licenses                                                                                                              $0.00
    7/1/2025 NBPT        Receipt 54429: Rachel Nerdin - COM21-0877                                                      150.00         (150.00)
    9/8/2025 NBPT        Receipt 55477: Tony L. - COM21-0712                                                            210.00         (360.00)
   9/24/2025 NBPT        Receipt 55856: Nicole Curley - HOM25-3171                                                      150.00         (510.00)
   10/2/2025 NBPT        Receipt 56055: Mandi Anderson - HOM21-0848                                                     306.00         (816.00)
  10/15/2025 NBPT        Receipt 56344: emerson smith - HOM21-0510                                                      156.00         (972.00)
  10/16/2025 NBPT        Receipt 56382: Shanons Academy - HOM21-1534                                                    199.50       (1,171.50)
  10/20/2025 NBPT        Receipt 56381: Bertha S - HOM21-0696                                                           150.00       (1,321.50)
   11/4/2025 NBPT        Receipt 56819: Hope Campell - HOM24-2661                                                       306.00       (1,627.50)
   11/4/2025 NBPT        Receipt 56819: Whitney Stillman - HOM21-0619                                                   162.00       (1,789.50)
  11/14/2025 NBPT        Receipt 57019: Debora Smith - COM24-2528                                                       198.00       (1,987.50)
   12/1/2025 NBPT        Receipt 57509: Nathaniel Jasper - HOM22-2050                                                   100.00       (2,087.50)
    1/6/2026 NBPT        Receipt 57981: Magdi Taha - COM25-3254                                                         162.00       (2,249.50)
   5/11/2026 NBPT        Receipt 61514: Rachel Kirkham - COM25-2988                                                      50.00       (2,299.50)
                                                                                                                   ($2,299.50)      ($2,299.50)

3100.250 - Dog Licenses                                                                                                                   $0.00
   8/14/2025 NBPT       Receipt 55041: Greater Salt Lake Municipal Sevices District - REM25-1539                        100.00         (100.00)
                                                                                                                     ($100.00)        ($100.00)
                                                                          Page 12                                           5/28/2026 08:51 AM
                                             Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                          General Ledger for White City - 7/1/2025 to 6/30/2026
        Account                                                                                                          Balance
    Date         Code                                       Description                       Debit       Credit
3100.260 - Building Permit                                                                                                      $0.00
    7/2/2025 NBPT         Receipt 54430: Steven Simmons - EMP25-1267                                           70.70          (70.70)
    7/2/2025 NBPT         Receipt 54441: sam yeager - RPV25-1071                                              291.89         (362.59)
    7/7/2025 NBPT         Receipt 54444: EZ Permits Inc, - EMP25-1286                                          90.90         (453.49)
    7/8/2025 NBPT         Receipt 54445: taminna l - RRC25-1279                                                75.75         (529.24)
   7/11/2025 NBPT         Receipt 54504: J. Brian - EMP25-1315                                                 90.90         (620.14)
   7/15/2025 NBPT         Receipt 54502: Jose Reyes - RAD25-1338                                              150.00         (770.14)
   7/16/2025 NBPT         Receipt 54499: Steven Simmons - EMP25-1267                                           50.00         (820.14)
   7/16/2025 NBPT         Receipt 54507: Nickolas C. - EMP25-1277                                              50.50         (870.64)
   7/16/2025 NBPT         Receipt 54507: EZ Permits Inc. - EMP25-1335                                          90.90         (961.54)
   7/17/2025 NBPT         Receipt 54510: EZ Permits Inc, - EMP25-1382                                          90.90       (1,052.44)
   7/18/2025 NBPT         Receipt 54602: Jose Reyes - RAD25-1338                                              187.26       (1,239.70)
   7/23/2025 NBPT         Receipt 54688: EZ Permits Inc, - EMP25-1424                                          70.70       (1,310.40)
   7/25/2025 NBPT         Receipt 54694: EZ Permits Inc, - EMP25-1251                                          90.90       (1,401.30)
   7/30/2025 NBPT         Receipt 54786: Joseph Jascha - WDR25-1446                                            70.70       (1,472.00)
   7/30/2025 NBPT         Receipt 54786: Benjamin Jasarevic - EMP25-1355                                       70.70       (1,542.70)
   7/31/2025 NBPT         Receipt 54814: Alexandra Bautista - RPV25-0429                                      326.64       (1,869.34)
    8/4/2025 NBPT         Receipt 54864: Mitchell Graf - RRC25-1410                                           126.25       (1,995.59)
    8/8/2025 NBPT         Receipt 54941: EZ Permits Inc, - EMP25-1527                                          70.70       (2,066.29)
   8/11/2025 NBPT         Receipt 54965: Kayla Johnson - WDR25-1516                                            70.70       (2,136.99)
   8/13/2025 NBPT         Receipt 55007: Wyatt Hiller - REM25-1359                                            400.00       (2,536.99)
   8/19/2025 NBPT         Receipt 55090: Tawnya Redmond - RAS25-0930                                          200.00       (2,736.99)
   8/21/2025 NBPT         Receipt 55118: sheree bennett - EMP25-1619                                           70.70       (2,807.69)
   8/21/2025 NBPT         Receipt 55118: Adrian Evans - RAS25-1482                                            700.00       (3,507.69)
   8/26/2025 NBPT         Receipt 55194: Roy L, - RRC25-1646                                                  126.25       (3,633.94)
    9/2/2025 NBPT         Receipt 55335: EZ Permits Inc, - EMP25-1679                                          70.70       (3,704.64)
    9/2/2025 NBPT         Receipt 55335: Brian Hoffman - RRC25-1689                                            75.75       (3,780.39)
    9/5/2025 NBPT         Receipt 55402: Nicole Johnson - RPV25-1741                                          150.00       (3,930.39)
   9/16/2025 NBPT         Receipt 55631: Heungkuk Choi - EMP25-1793                                            70.70       (4,001.09)
   9/16/2025 NBPT         Receipt 55631: Benjamin Kirkland - RRC25-1822                                        75.75       (4,076.84)
   9/16/2025 NBPT         Receipt 55631: Kayla Johnson - WDR25-1787                                            70.70       (4,147.54)
   9/22/2025 NBPT         Receipt 55637: Luke Kimball - RRC25-1845                                             75.75       (4,223.29)
   9/25/2025 NBPT         Receipt 55870: EZ Permits Inc, - EMP25-1874                                          90.90       (4,314.19)
   9/29/2025 NBPT         Receipt 55873: Brittany Ward - RRC25-1903                                            75.75       (4,389.94)
   9/30/2025 NBPT         Receipt 55874: Josh Duke - RPV25-1894                                               150.00       (4,539.94)
   9/30/2025 JE           1248 - State Surcharge                                                  42.45                    (4,497.49)
   10/1/2025 NBPT         Receipt 56065: EZ Permits Inc, - EMP25-1937                                          70.70       (4,568.19)
   10/2/2025 NBPT         Receipt 56066: Wyatt Hiller - REM25-1359                                          1,049.48       (5,617.67)
   10/3/2025 NBPT         Receipt 56067: Benjamin Kirkland - EMP25-1967                                        70.70       (5,688.37)
   10/3/2025 NBPT         Receipt 56067: Benjamin Kirkland - RRC25-1950                                        75.75       (5,764.12)
   10/4/2025 NBPT         Receipt 56064: Allyson Murphy - REM25-1539                                          212.10       (5,976.22)
   10/6/2025 NBPT         Receipt 56074: Chrystal Johnson - EMP25-1976                                         90.90       (6,067.12)
   10/7/2025 NBPT         Receipt 56075: Christopher Oman - EMP25-1969                                         70.70       (6,137.82)
   10/9/2025 NBPT         Receipt 56081: Brooklyn Stafford - RRC25-2015                                        75.75       (6,213.57)
  10/10/2025 NBPT         Receipt 56080: Miranda Johnson - RRC25-2021                                          75.75       (6,289.32)
  10/15/2025 NBPT         Receipt 56344: EZ Permits Inc, - EMP25-2052                                          90.90       (6,380.22)
  10/16/2025 NBPT         Receipt 56382: Benjamin Kirkland - RRC25-2064                                        75.75       (6,455.97)
  10/22/2025 NBPT         Receipt 56545: Cyprus Francisco - RPV25-2087                                        150.00       (6,605.97)
  10/22/2025 NBPT         Receipt 56545: sheree bennett - EMP25-2118                                           70.70       (6,676.67)
  10/23/2025 NBPT         Receipt 56628: Janine rodriguez - RRC25-2083                                         75.75       (6,752.42)
  10/27/2025 NBPT         Receipt 56651: Nicole Johnson - RPV25-1741                                          133.32       (6,885.74)
  10/28/2025 NBPT         Receipt 56652: Citnhya Castellanos - RRC25-2176                                      75.75       (6,961.49)
  10/29/2025 NBPT         Receipt 56686: EZ Permits Inc, - EMP25-2190                                          90.90       (7,052.39)
  10/29/2025 NBPT         Receipt 56686: EZ Permits Inc, - EMP25-2178                                          90.90       (7,143.29)
  10/29/2025 NBPT         Receipt 56686: Superior Water and Air Jana Woolsey - EMP25-2193                      70.70       (7,213.99)
   11/5/2025 NBPT         Receipt 56849: Josh Duke - RPV25-1894                                               299.77       (7,513.76)
   11/5/2025 NBPT         Receipt 56849: Jamie Reed - WDR25-2218                                               70.70       (7,584.46)
   11/6/2025 NBPT         Receipt 56883: Mister Sparky - EMP25-2240                                            70.70       (7,655.16)
   11/6/2025 NBPT         Receipt 56884: EZ Permits Inc, - EMP25-2214                                          70.70       (7,725.86)
   11/6/2025 NBPT         Receipt 56884: Benjamin Kirkland - RRC25-2238                                        75.75       (7,801.61)
  11/12/2025 NBPT         Receipt 56987: EZ Permits Inc, - EMP25-2255                                          90.90       (7,892.51)
  11/17/2025 NBPT         Receipt 57023: Charlotte Rugg - REM25-2301                                          100.00       (7,992.51)
   12/2/2025 NBPT         Receipt 57510: Ansco - CTM24-1420                                                   228.00       (8,220.51)
   12/4/2025 NBPT         Receipt 57512: Gonzala Pastorini - EMP25-2357                                        90.90       (8,311.41)
   12/4/2025 NBPT         Receipt 57512: Gonzala Pastorini - EMP25-2253                                        90.90       (8,402.31)
   12/5/2025 NBPT         Receipt 57414: EZ Permits Inc, - EMP25-2421                                          90.90       (8,493.21)
   12/9/2025 NBPT         Receipt 57522: Jacob McNinch - REM25-2442                                           250.00       (8,743.21)
  12/18/2025 NBPT         Receipt 57694: Jamie Reed - WDR25-2497                                               70.70       (8,813.91)
  12/18/2025 NBPT         Receipt 57694: EZ Permits Inc, - EMP25-2498                                          70.70       (8,884.61)
  12/18/2025 NBPT         Receipt 57694: Luke Billing - RRC25-2486                                             75.75       (8,960.36)
  12/22/2025 NBPT         Receipt 57749: Alexander Bergman - EMP25-2518                                        70.70       (9,031.06)
  12/23/2025 NBPT         Receipt 57777: Jacob McNinch - REM25-2442                                           110.00       (9,141.06)
                                                                        Page 13                                   5/28/2026 08:51 AM
                                             Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                          General Ledger for White City - 7/1/2025 to 6/30/2026
        Account                                                                                                              Balance
    Date         Code                                       Description                       Debit           Credit
3100.260 - Building Permit ( continued )
  12/23/2025 NBPT         Receipt 57779: EZ Permits Inc, - EMP25-2513                                              70.70        (9,211.76)
  12/24/2025 NBPT         Receipt 57780: Joseph Jascha - REX25-2534                                                70.70        (9,282.46)
  12/26/2025 NBPT         Receipt 57781: EZ Permits Inc, - EMP25-2547                                              70.70        (9,353.16)
  12/29/2025 NBPT         Receipt 57784: David Boss - REX25-2539                                                   70.70        (9,423.86)
  12/30/2025 NBPT         Receipt 57856: Joseph Crocenzi - WDR25-2441                                              70.70        (9,494.56)
  12/31/2025 JE           1307 - State Surcharge                                                    34.91                       (9,459.65)
    1/2/2026 NBPT         Receipt 57891: Jacob McNinch - REM25-2442                                               545.24      (10,004.89)
    1/5/2026 NBPT         Receipt 57942: Orcutt Construction Inc - WDR26-0006                                      70.70      (10,075.59)
    1/9/2026 NBPT         Receipt 58124: EZ Permits Inc, - EMP25-2516                                              90.90      (10,166.49)
   1/13/2026 NBPT         Receipt 58167: Eric G - EMP25-2256                                                      111.10      (10,277.59)
   1/22/2026 NBPT         Receipt 58199: Andrew Neilson - REM26-0090                                              250.00      (10,527.59)
   1/27/2026 NBPT         Receipt 58207: Gonzalo Pastorini - EMP26-0130                                            70.70      (10,598.29)
   1/28/2026 NBPT         Receipt 58879: Andrew Neilson - REM26-0090                                              545.24       (11,143.53)
   3/31/2026 JE           1320 - State Surcharge                                                    42.78                      (11,100.75)
    4/2/2026 NBPT         Receipt 61522: EZ Permits Inc - EMP26-0625                                                70.70      (11,171.45)
    4/6/2026 NBPT         Receipt 61529: EZ Permits Inc - EMP26-0644                                                90.90      (11,262.35)
    4/8/2026 NBPT         Receipt 61534: Jeremy Fenton - EMP26-0656                                                111.10      (11,373.45)
    4/8/2026 NBPT         Receipt 61534: EZ Permits Inc - EMP26-0664                                                70.70      (11,444.15)
    4/8/2026 NBPT         Receipt 61534: EZ Permits Inc - EMP26-0674                                                90.90      (11,535.05)
   4/14/2026 NBPT         Receipt 61545: ReRoofIt Joseph - RRC26-0701                                               75.75      (11,610.80)
   4/15/2026 NBPT         Receipt 61547: Vincent Landvatter - EMP26-0709                                            70.70      (11,681.50)
   4/15/2026 NBPT         Receipt 61547: Sean Sant - RAS26-0713                                                    250.00      (11,931.50)
   4/16/2026 NBPT         Receipt 61550: sheree bennett - EMP26-0715                                                70.70     (12,002.20)
   4/16/2026 NBPT         Receipt 61550: Layton Checketts - RAD26-0212                                           1,167.34     (13,169.54)
   4/17/2026 NBPT         Receipt 61552: sam yeager - RPV26-0740                                                   150.00     (13,319.54)
   4/24/2026 NBPT         Receipt 61568: Suzanne Rentmeister - EMP26-0795                                           70.70     (13,390.24)
   4/28/2026 NBPT         Receipt 61573: Jennilyn Draper - RAS26-0789                                              700.00     (14,090.24)
    5/1/2026 NBPT         Receipt 61417: Chris Barney - RAS26-0399                                                 100.00     (14,190.24)
    5/4/2026 NBPT         Receipt 61419: EZ Permits Inc - EMP26-0830                                                90.90     (14,281.14)
    5/6/2026 NBPT         Receipt 61459: Liberty Wittusen - RRC26-0871                                              75.75     (14,356.89)
    5/7/2026 NBPT         Receipt 61462: Sean Sant - RAS26-0713                                                    906.00     (15,262.89)
    5/7/2026 NBPT         Receipt 61462: Renz D. - EMP26-0858                                                       90.90     (15,353.79)
    5/7/2026 NBPT         Receipt 61462: Clark Manwaring - RAD26-0284                                              244.13     (15,597.92)
    5/8/2026 NBPT         Receipt 61465: Kaleb Fabert - ADU26-0377                                               1,426.54     (17,024.46)
   5/11/2026 NBPT         Receipt 61514: sam yeager - RPV26-0740                                                   402.48     (17,426.94)
   5/11/2026 NBPT         Receipt 61515: Shantel Wardle - CTI26-0892                                               600.00     (18,026.94)
   5/13/2026 NBPT         Receipt 61563: Abbie Dorr - SFD26-0903                                                 1,800.00     (19,826.94)
   5/13/2026 NBPT         Receipt 61563: EZ Permits Inc - EMP26-0911                                                90.90     (19,917.84)
   5/13/2026 NBPT         Receipt 61563: EZ Permits Inc - EMP26-0929                                                90.90     (20,008.74)
   5/15/2026 NBPT         Receipt 61711: EZ Permits Inc - EMP26-0953                                                90.90     (20,099.64)
                                                                                                  $120.14    ($20,219.78)    ($20,099.64)

3100.300 - Sales Tax                                                                                                                 $0.00
   7/31/2025 JE           1175 - Income Accrual                                                                 67,111.26      (67,111.26)
   8/31/2025 JE           1224 - Income Accrual - Aug 2025                                                      79,096.88    (146,208.14)
   9/30/2025 JE           1243 - Income Accrual                                                                 72,980.64    (219,188.78)
  10/31/2025 JE           1268 - Accrue Income                                                                  69,878.95    (289,067.73)
  11/30/2025 JE           1278 - Income Accrual                                                                 86,288.35    (375,356.08)
  12/31/2025 JE           1309 - Accrue Income                                                                  86,288.35    (461,644.43)
   1/31/2026 JE           1316 - Income Accrual                                                                 63,563.09    (525,207.52)
   2/28/2026 JE           1324 - Income Accrual                                                                 71,253.35    (596,460.87)
   3/31/2026 JE           1348 - Income Accrual                                                                100,000.00    (696,460.87)
                                                                                                            ($696,460.87)   ($696,460.87)

3100.350 - SB 136 Sales Tax                                                                                                         $0.00
   7/31/2025 JE           1175 - Income Accrual                                                                  6,184.06      (6,184.06)
   8/31/2025 JE           1224 - Income Accrual - Aug 2025                                                       7,406.93     (13,590.99)
   9/30/2025 JE           1243 - Income Accrual                                                                  6,804.99     (20,395.98)
  10/31/2025 JE           1268 - Accrue Income                                                                   6,481.99     (26,877.97)
  11/30/2025 JE           1278 - Income Accrual                                                                  8,500.06     (35,378.03)
  12/31/2025 JE           1309 - Accrue Income                                                                   7,939.47     (43,317.50)
   1/31/2026 JE           1316 - Income Accrual                                                                  5,895.31     (49,212.81)
   2/28/2026 JE           1324 - Income Accrual                                                                  6,641.93     (55,854.74)
   3/31/2026 JE           1348 - Income Accrual                                                                 10,000.00     (65,854.74)
                                                                                                             ($65,854.74)    ($65,854.74)

3100.401 - Google Franchise Fee                                                                                                     $0.00
   7/23/2025 NBPT        Receipt 54688: James Lucas - SDX25-0398                                                  250.00         (250.00)
   7/23/2025 JE          1257 - To correct g/l account                                             250.00                            0.00
                                                                                                  $250.00       ($250.00)           $0.00


                                                                        Page 14                                        5/28/2026 08:51 AM
                                               Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                            General Ledger for White City - 7/1/2025 to 6/30/2026
        Account                                                                                                                  Balance
    Date        Code                                         Description                                Debit     Credit
3100.420 - Engineering Services                                                                                                          $0.00
   7/15/2025 NBPT        Receipt 54506: Kathryn Shearer - EXC25-0378                                                   250.00         (250.00)
   7/23/2025 NBPT        Receipt 54688: James Lucas - SDX25-0396                                                       250.00         (500.00)
   7/23/2025 NBPT        Receipt 54688: James Lucas - SDX25-0395                                                       250.00         (750.00)
   7/23/2025 JE          1257 - To correct g/l account                                                                 250.00       (1,000.00)
   7/29/2025 NBPT        Receipt 54699: Donna Woolstenhulme - SDX25-0409                                               125.00       (1,125.00)
    8/8/2025 NBPT        Receipt 54942: Greater Salt Lake Municipal Sevices District - SDX25-0399                    7,300.00       (8,425.00)
   8/12/2025 NBPT        Receipt 54966: James Lucas - SDX25-0427                                                       250.00       (8,675.00)
   9/15/2025 NBPT        Receipt 55630: Ted Dalton - EXC25-0492                                                        772.50       (9,447.50)
  10/23/2025 NBPT        Receipt 56629: James Lucas - SDX25-0545                                                       250.00       (9,697.50)
  10/28/2025 NBPT        Receipt 56653: Charles Del - EXC25-0540                                                       250.00       (9,947.50)
   11/3/2025 NBPT        Receipt 56783: Christopher Gemar - EXC25-0541                                                 125.00     (10,072.50)
   12/8/2025 NBPT        Receipt 57527: James Lucas - SDX25-0583                                                       250.00     (10,322.50)
  12/23/2025 NBPT        Receipt 57779: Diversified Installations - EXC25-0604                                         125.00     (10,447.50)
    4/7/2026 NBPT        Receipt 61531: Permit Dept - EXC26-0109                                                       125.00     (10,572.50)
   4/16/2026 NBPT        Receipt 61550: Alisha Zesiger - EXC26-0128                                                    250.00     (10,822.50)
    5/4/2026 NBPT        Receipt 61419: Keisini Kinikini - EXC26-0158                                                  125.00     (10,947.50)
   5/12/2026 NBPT        Receipt 61520: Permit Dept - EXC26-0170                                                       952.00      (11,899.50)
   5/18/2026 NBPT        Receipt 61718: James Lucas - SDX26-0163                                                       250.00     (12,149.50)
                                                                                                                 ($12,149.50)    ($12,149.50)

3100.450 - Planning Services                                                                                                            $0.00
   9/30/2025 NBPT         Receipt 55874: Nile Checketts - VAR2025-001503                                            1,000.00       (1,000.00)
  11/25/2025 NBPT         Receipt 57410: Greater Salt Lake Municipal Sevices District - EXP2025-                      175.00       (1,175.00)
                          001532
    5/7/2026 NBPT         Receipt 61462: ANDY M - ROW26-0169                                                            30.00      (1,205.00)
                                                                                                                  ($1,205.00)     ($1,205.00)

3100.500 - Justice Court Fines/Forfeitures                                                                                               $0.00
   7/31/2025 JE           1176 - Income Accrual - Justice Court Receipts                                             3,146.51       (3,146.51)
   8/31/2025 JE           1224 - Income Accrual - Aug 2025                                                           5,031.78       (8,178.29)
   9/30/2025 JE           1243 - Income Accrual - Justice Court Receipts                                             3,094.92      (11,273.21)
  10/31/2025 JE           1268 - Accrue Income Oct 2025                                                                663.05      (11,936.26)
  11/30/2025 JE           1278 - Income Accrual                                                                        549.69     (12,485.95)
                                                                                                                 ($12,485.95)    ($12,485.95)

3100.560 - B&C Road Fund Allotment                                                                                                      $0.00
   8/31/2025 JE        1224 - Income Accrual - Aug 2025                                                             39,858.69     (39,858.69)
  10/31/2025 JE        1268 - Accrue Income                                                                         44,129.01     (83,987.70)
  12/31/2025 JE        1309 - Accrue Income                                                                         45,499.16    (129,486.86)
   2/28/2026 JE        1324 - Income Accrual                                                                        39,747.57    (169,234.43)
                                                                                                                ($169,234.43)   ($169,234.43)

3100.562 - County Public Transit Tax                                                                                                     $0.00
    7/1/2025 JE           1244 - PB_TRAN_TAX                                                                         1,700.98       (1,700.98)
   7/31/2025 JE           1175 - Income Accrual                                                                      3,099.67       (4,800.65)
   8/31/2025 JE           1224 - Income Accrual - Aug 2025                                                           3,750.17       (8,550.82)
   9/30/2025 JE           1243 - Income Accrual                                                                      3,415.18      (11,966.00)
  10/31/2025 JE           1268 - Accrue Income Oct 2025                                                              3,280.26     (15,246.26)
  11/30/2025 JE           1278 - Income Accrual                                                                      4,360.15     (19,606.41)
  12/31/2025 JE           1309 - Accrue Income                                                                       4,074.48     (23,680.89)
   1/31/2026 JE           1316 - Income Accrual                                                                      3,074.82     (26,755.71)
   2/28/2026 JE           1324 - Income Accrual                                                                      3,340.72     (30,096.43)
   3/31/2026 JE           1348 - Income Accrual                                                                      3,000.00     (33,096.43)
                                                                                                                 ($33,096.43)    ($33,096.43)

3100.870 - Donations                                                                                                                    $0.00
   3/31/2026 JE            1320 - Dept of Gov Operations - UT Community Stipend for America 250                     1,500.00       (1,500.00)
                           celebration
   4/30/2026 JE            1346 - Dept of Gov Operations - UT Community Stipend for America 250                     1,200.00       (2,700.00)
                           celebration
                                                                                                                  ($2,700.00)     ($2,700.00)

3600.100 - Interest Earnings                                                                                                            $0.00
   7/31/2025 NBPT          Receipt 55185: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - Interest Earnings                2,603.67      (2,603.67)
   8/31/2025 NBPT          Receipt 56398: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - Interest Earnings                3,841.35      (6,445.02)
   9/30/2025 NBPT          Receipt 56540: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - Interest Earnings                3,963.25     (10,408.27)
  10/31/2025 NBPT          Receipt 57175: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - Interest Earnings                4,520.31     (14,928.58)
  11/30/2025 NBPT          Receipt 57718: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - Interest Earnings                3,907.71     (18,836.29)
  12/31/2025 NBPT          Receipt 58157: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - Interest Earnings                3,887.44     (22,723.73)
   1/31/2026 NBPT          Receipt 58910: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - Interest Earnings                3,448.22     (26,171.95)
   2/28/2026 NBPT          Receipt 58914: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - Interest Earnings                3,119.46     (29,291.41)
   3/31/2026 NBPT          Receipt 58943: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - Interest Earnings                3,656.13     (32,947.54)
                                                                                                                 ($32,947.54)    ($32,947.54)
                                                                           Page 15                                         5/28/2026 08:51 AM
                                                 Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                              General Ledger for White City - 7/1/2025 to 6/30/2026
        Account                                                                                                                       Balance
    Date         Code                                       Description                                 Debit          Credit
3800.100 - Contribution from GF                                                                                                              $0.00
    7/1/2025 JE           1177 - Contribution from General Fund                                                         543,339.00    (543,339.00)
                                                                                                                     ($543,339.00)   ($543,339.00)

4100.100 - Wages                                                                                                                            $0.00
   7/31/2025 JE             Import: 1163 - Payroll - City Councils 6-30 White City                        6,875.00                       6,875.00
   8/26/2025 JE             Import: 1179 - Payroll - City Councils 8-31 White City                        6,875.00                      13,750.00
   9/30/2025 JE             Import: 1236 - Payroll 9-30 - White City                                      6,875.00                      20,625.00
  10/31/2025 JE             Import: 1253 - Payroll 10-31 - White City                                     6,875.00                      27,500.00
  11/30/2025 JE             Import: 1273 - Payroll 11-30 - White City                                     6,875.00                      34,375.00
   1/31/2026 JE             Import: 1325 - Payroll Jan 2026 White City                                    6,875.00                      41,250.00
   2/28/2026 JE             Import: 1327 - Payroll Feb 2026 White City                                    6,875.00                      48,125.00
   3/31/2026 JE             Import: 1333 - Payroll Mar 2026 White City                                    6,875.00                      55,000.00
   4/30/2026 JE             Import: 1360 - Payroll Apr 2026 White City                                    6,875.00                      61,875.00
                                                                                                        $61,875.00                     $61,875.00

4100.150 - Social Security Tax                                                                                                               $0.00
   7/31/2025 JE            Import: 1163 - Payroll - City Councils 6-30 White City                           426.25                          426.25
   8/26/2025 JE            Import: 1179 - Payroll - City Councils 8-31 White City                           426.25                          852.50
   9/30/2025 JE            Import: 1236 - Payroll 9-30 - White City                                         426.25                        1,278.75
  10/31/2025 JE            Import: 1253 - Payroll 10-31 - White City                                        426.25                        1,705.00
  11/30/2025 JE            Import: 1273 - Payroll 11-30 - White City                                        426.25                        2,131.25
   1/31/2026 JE            Import: 1325 - Payroll Jan 2026 White City                                       426.25                        2,557.50
   2/28/2026 JE            Import: 1327 - Payroll Feb 2026 White City                                       426.25                        2,983.75
   3/31/2026 JE            Import: 1333 - Payroll Mar 2026 White City                                       426.25                        3,410.00
   4/30/2026 JE            Import: 1360 - Payroll Apr 2026 White City                                       426.25                        3,836.25
                                                                                                         $3,836.25                       $3,836.25

4100.160 - Medicare                                                                                                                         $0.00
   7/31/2025 JE             Import: 1163 - Payroll - City Councils 6-30 White City                          99.70                           99.70
   8/26/2025 JE             Import: 1179 - Payroll - City Councils 8-31 White City                          99.67                          199.37
   9/30/2025 JE             Import: 1236 - Payroll 9-30 - White City                                        99.71                          299.08
  10/31/2025 JE             Import: 1253 - Payroll 10-31 - White City                                       99.67                          398.75
  11/30/2025 JE             Import: 1273 - Payroll 11-30 - White City                                       99.70                          498.45
   1/31/2026 JE             Import: 1325 - Payroll Jan 2026 White City                                      99.69                          598.14
   2/28/2026 JE             Import: 1327 - Payroll Feb 2026 White City                                      99.69                          697.83
   3/31/2026 JE             Import: 1333 - Payroll Mar 2026 White City                                      99.69                          797.52
   4/30/2026 JE             Import: 1360 - Payroll Apr 2026 White City                                      99.71                          897.23
                                                                                                          $897.23                         $897.23

4100.190 - FUTA                                                                                                                             $0.00
   1/31/2026 JE             Import: 1325 - Payroll Jan 2026 White City                                     116.88                          116.88
   2/28/2026 JE             Import: 1327 - Payroll Feb 2026 White City                                      41.25                          158.13
   3/31/2026 JE             Import: 1333 - Payroll Mar 2026 White City                                     116.88                          275.01
   4/30/2026 JE             Import: 1360 - Payroll Apr 2026 White City                                     113.86                          388.87
                                                                                                          $388.87                         $388.87

4100.200 - Awards, Promotional & Meals                                                                                                       $0.00
   9/19/2025 AP         INV: QN2D93 Steve's Black Sabbath BBQ - Meal for White City event                 4,807.60                        4,807.60
   9/21/2025 AP         INV: MSD25238 Andreason, Rori - Reimbursement for Operations Lunch                  221.03                        5,028.63
   9/26/2025 AP         INV: 024993 Zurchers Party - Supplies for Operations Luncheon                       210.04                        5,238.67
  12/16/2025 AP         INV: 4jr44y Creative Awards - award                                                 325.02                        5,563.69
    1/7/2026 AP         INV: 12100 Isabellas, Isabellas Catering or Isabellas 2 Go - Catering for           750.00                        6,313.69
                        Swearing in Ceremony - White City
                                                                                                         $6,313.69                       $6,313.69

4100.210 - Subscriptions/Memberships                                                                                                         $0.00
    7/1/2025 AP          INV: WC25 Utah League of Cities and Towns - Membership Fee for White City        3,092.93                        3,092.93
                         FY 2025-2026
  11/28/2025 AP          INV: qtby3 Utah League of Cities and Towns - Membership fee for White City         225.00                        3,317.93
   12/3/2025 AP          INV: 5VAJ17 Utah League of Cities and Towns - Membership fee for White City         75.00                        3,392.93
   3/26/2026 AP          INV: WhiCit-ER-032626 State of Utah - Entity Renewal - White City - May 2026        25.00                        3,417.93
                                                                                                         $3,417.93                       $3,417.93

4100.220 - Printing/Publications/Advertising                                                                                                 $0.00
   8/27/2025 AP           INV: 95184 Corporate Edge Printing Services - Newsletters - White City          2,112.56                        2,112.56
                          Candidate Print & mail
   12/9/2025 AP           INV: 95866 Corporate Edge Printing Services - Post Cards - White City            591.73                         2,704.29
                          Planning and Development - Winter Reminders & postage
  12/19/2025 AP           INV: 43006 High Value Marking & Engraving - MA - Custom Name Badges &             70.05                         2,774.34
                          holders & name plates
   1/28/2026 AP           INV: DE6-51C-F35 Faces Photography - Headshots & Group photo of                  583.70                         3,358.04
                          Mayor/Council - White City


                                                                              Page 16                                           5/28/2026 08:51 AM
                                              Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                           General Ledger for White City - 7/1/2025 to 6/30/2026
        Account                                                                                                                        Balance
    Date          Code                                     Description                                  Debit          Credit
4100.220 - Printing/Publications/Advertising ( continued )
   2/19/2026 AP           INV: 43280 High Value Marking & Engraving - White City - Name Plates (3) &        70.05                          3,428.09
                          Easels (3)
   5/21/2026 AP           INV: 31833 West Wind Litho - White CIty Newsletter Postage - May 2026             844.98                         4,273.07
                                                                                                         $4,273.07                        $4,273.07

4100.240 - Office Expense and Supplies                                                                                                       $0.00
   8/31/2025 AP          INV: 9MW58 Office Depot - Office Supplies-                                             1.86                          1.86
   8/31/2025 AP          VOID INV: 9MW58 Office Depot - Office Supplies-                                                        1.86          0.00
  11/30/2025 AP          INV: 1L1YQI Office Depot - supplies                                               147.37                           147.37
   12/4/2025 AP          INV: bhfgz Amazon.com - office expense                                            277.42                           424.79
   12/4/2025 AP          INV: st4xf Amazon.com - office expense                                             46.18                           470.97
  12/17/2025 AP          INV: 9a0fl Amazon.com - office expense                                              7.51                           478.48
  12/17/2025 AP          INV: 78ba6 Amazon.com - office expense                                             56.40                           534.88
  12/18/2025 AP          INV: z0vn4 Amazon.com - office expense                                            122.74                           657.62
    1/7/2026 AP          INV: 010726-Rori A- 1 Walmart Super Center - Supplies - Walmart White City          5.89                           663.51
    1/7/2026 AP          INV: 010726-Rori A. - 2 Walmart Super Center - Supplies - Walmart White City       12.88                           676.39
    3/5/2026 AP          INV: 15MFX Office Depot - Office supplies - White City - Mar 2026                 130.51                           806.90
                                                                                                          $808.76         ($1.86)          $806.90

4100.255 - Computer Equip/Software                                                                                                           $0.00
    1/9/2026 AP         INV: 010926 DocuSign, Inc. - DocuSign software - White City                        128.94                           128.94
                                                                                                          $128.94                          $128.94

4100.310 - Attorney-Civil                                                                                                                     $0.00
   7/31/2025 AP           INV: WCJuly25 Ashtree Legal Services PC - Legal Service for White City July     6,000.00                         6,000.00
                          2025
   8/31/2025 AP           INV: WCAug25 Ashtree Legal Services PC - Legal Service for White City           6,000.00                        12,000.00
                          August 2025
   9/30/2025 AP           INV: WCSep25 Ashtree Legal Services PC - Legal Service for White City           6,000.00                        18,000.00
                          September 2025
  10/31/2025 AP           INV: WCOct25 Ashtree Legal Services PC - Legal Service for White City           6,000.00                        24,000.00
                          October 2025
  11/30/2025 AP           INV: WCNov25 Ashtree Legal Services PC - Legal Service for White City           6,000.00                        30,000.00
                          November 2025
  12/26/2025 AP           INV: WCDec25 Ashtree Legal Services PC - Legal Service for White City           6,000.00                        36,000.00
                          December 2025
   1/31/2026 AP           INV: WCJan2026 Ashtree Legal Services PC - Legal Services for White City -      6,000.00                        42,000.00
                          Jan 2026
   2/28/2026 AP           INV: WCFeb2026 Ashtree Legal Services PC - Legal Services for White City -      6,000.00                        48,000.00
                          Feb 2026
   3/31/2026 AP           INV: WCMar2026 Ashtree Legal Services PC - Legal Services for White City -      6,000.00                        54,000.00
                          Mar 2026
   4/30/2026 AP           INV: WCApr2026 Ashtree Legal Services PC - Legal Service for White City -       6,000.00                        60,000.00
                          Apr 2026
                                                                                                        $60,000.00                      $60,000.00

4100.360 - Web Page Development/Maintenance                                                                                                  $0.00
   7/31/2025 AP         INV: 61BCFC47-0007 Streamline Software, Inc. - Streamline Flex for Jul 1-          800.00                           800.00
                        Aug 1, 2025 White City
    8/1/2025 AP         INV: 61BCFC47-0008 Streamline Software, Inc. - Streamline Flex for Aug 1-          800.00                          1,600.00
                        Sep 1, 2025 White City
    9/1/2025 AP         INV: 342763 CivicPlus, LLC - Municode Codification Annual Self Publishing         1,323.00                         2,923.00
                        Software License
    9/1/2025 AP         INV: 61BCFC47-0009 Streamline Software, Inc. - Streamline Flex Sep1-Oct 1,         800.00                          3,723.00
                        2025
   10/1/2025 AP         INV: 61BCFC47-0010 Streamline Software, Inc. - Streamline Flex Oct1-Nov1,          800.00                          4,523.00
                        2025
   11/1/2025 AP         INV: 61BCFC47-0011 Streamline Software, Inc. - Streamline Flex Nov1-Dec 1,         800.00                          5,323.00
                        2025 White City
   12/1/2025 AP         INV: 61BCF47-0013 Streamline Software, Inc. - Streamline Flex for Dec 1,           800.00                          6,123.00
                        2025-Jan 1, 2026 White City
    1/1/2026 AP         INV: 61BCFC47-0014 Streamline Software, Inc. - Streamline Flex for Jan 1-          800.00                          6,923.00
                        Feb1, 2026
    2/1/2026 AP         INV: 61BCFC47-0015 Streamline Software, Inc. - Streamline Flex                     840.00                          7,763.00
    3/1/2026 AP         INV: 61BCFC47-0016 Streamline Software, Inc. - Streamline Flex Mar 1 - Apr         840.00                          8,603.00
                        1, 2026
    4/1/2026 AP         INV: 61BCFC47-0017 Streamline Software, Inc. - Streamline Flex Apr 1 - May         840.00                          9,443.00
                        1, 2026
    5/1/2026 AP         INV: 61BCFC47-0018 Streamline Software, Inc. - Streamline Flex May 1 -             840.00                         10,283.00
                        June 1, 2026
                                                                                                        $10,283.00                      $10,283.00


                                                                         Page 17                                                 5/28/2026 08:51 AM
                                               Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                            General Ledger for White City - 7/1/2025 to 6/30/2026
        Account                                                                                                                         Balance
    Date        Code                                  Description                                          Debit         Credit
4100.370 - Software/Streaming                                                                                                                 $0.00
    9/3/2025 AP          INV: 2X4YH ZOOM Video Communications Inc. - online meeting software                    10.76                         10.76
   10/3/2025 AP          INV: 8T1F4J ZOOM Video Communications Inc. - on-line meeting software                  10.76                         21.52
   11/3/2025 AP          INV: d01lx ZOOM Video Communications Inc. - on-line meeting software                   10.76                         32.28
   12/3/2025 AP          INV: 98RT93 ZOOM Video Communications Inc. - on-line meeting software                  10.76                         43.04
    1/2/2026 AP          INV: 010226 ZOOM Video Communications Inc. - Online meeting software -                 10.76                         53.80
                         Rori A. - Jan 26
    2/2/2026 AP          INV: GYF48 ZOOM Video Communications Inc. - Online meeting software -                  10.76                         64.56
                         White City (RA) - Feb 2026
    3/1/2026 AP          INV: KAQME Google, LLC - Google Workspace - White City - Mar 2026                   1,176.00                       1,240.56
    3/2/2026 AP          INV: RBQM5 ZOOM Video Communications Inc. - Online meeting software -                  10.76                       1,251.32
                         White City (RA) - Mar 2026
                                                                                                            $1,251.32                      $1,251.32

4100.390 - Payroll Processing Fees                                                                                                             $0.00
   8/26/2025 JE           Import: 1179 - Payroll - City Councils 8-31 White City                                67.00                          67.00
   9/30/2025 JE           Import: 1236 - Payroll 9-30 - White City                                              67.00                         134.00
  11/30/2025 JE           Import: 1273 - Payroll 11-30 - White City                                            119.50                         253.50
   1/30/2026 AP           INV: INV3482304 Paylocity - Payroll Fees White City Jan 2026                         188.96                         442.46
   2/20/2026 AP           INV: INV3548620 Paylocity - Payroll Fees White City Feb 2026                         188.50                         630.96
   3/20/2026 AP           INV: INV3630279 Paylocity - Payroll Fees White City March 2026                       188.50                         819.46
   4/20/2026 AP           INV: INV3723177 Paylocity - Payroll Fees White City Apr 2026                         188.50                       1,007.96
   5/20/2026 AP           INV: INV3810703 Paylocity - Payroll Fees White City May 2026                         213.50                       1,221.46
                                                                                                            $1,221.46                      $1,221.46

4100.420 - Contributions/Special Events                                                                                                        $0.00
   3/26/2026 AP           INV: MSD03-26-2026 White City Community Council - White City Community            53,000.00                      53,000.00
                          Council 2026 contribution
   3/26/2026 AP           VOID INV: MSD03-26-2026 White City Community Council - White City                               53,000.00             0.00
                          Community Council 2026 contribution
   3/26/2026 AP           INV: MSD03-26-2026 White City Township Community Council, Inc. - White            53,000.00                      53,000.00
                          City Community Council 2026 contribution
   5/20/2026 AP           INV: MSD-05202026 White City Community Council - 250 Year Celebration -            2,700.00                      55,700.00
                          White City - May 2026
                                                                                                          $108,700.00   ($53,000.00)     $55,700.00

4100.430 - City Elections and Voting                                                                                                           $0.00
  12/31/2025 AP            INV: CCO0000511 Salt Lake County Mayors Financial Administration - 2025           9,360.97                       9,360.97
                           Elections White City
                                                                                                            $9,360.97                      $9,360.97

4100.510 - Insurance                                                                                                                           $0.00
    7/8/2025 AP            INV: M1621137 Utah Local Governments Trust - General Liability for White          7,332.78                       7,332.78
                           City
    7/8/2025 AP            INV: M1621138 Utah Local Governments Trust - Property for White City 2025         1,780.56                       9,113.34
                                                                                                            $9,113.34                      $9,113.34

4100.520 - Workers Comp Insurance                                                                                                             $0.00
    7/8/2025 AP         INV: M1621139 Utah Local Governments Trust - Workers Comp for White City              833.25                         833.25
                        2025
  12/31/2025 AP         INV: 1623440 Utah Local Governments Trust - Workers Comp true up                      125.64                         958.89
                                                                                                             $958.89                        $958.89

4100.590 - Postage                                                                                                                            $0.00
   8/27/2025 AP            INV: 95184 Corporate Edge Printing Services - Newsletters - White City             648.12                         648.12
                           Candidate Print & mail
   9/10/2025 AP            INV: MSD25228 Andreason, Rori - Reimbursement for Mailbox payment in                 96.00                        744.12
                           White City
   12/9/2025 AP            INV: 95866 Corporate Edge Printing Services - Post Cards - White City              693.41                        1,437.53
                           Planning and Development - Winter Reminders & postage
                                                                                                            $1,437.53                      $1,437.53

4100.600 - Professional and Technical                                                                                                          $0.00
   7/31/2025 AP           INV: 2025-0294 DS Accounting Services, LLC - Monthly Accounting Per                1,250.00                       1,250.00
                          Agreement for White City July 2025
   7/31/2025 AP           INV: 125 Positive Impact Consulting, LLC - Services as Administrator of White      7,000.00                       8,250.00
                          City July 2025
   8/31/2025 AP           INV: 2025-0321 DS Accounting Services, LLC - Monthly Accounting Per                1,250.00                       9,500.00
                          Agreement White City August 2025
    9/1/2025 AP           INV: 126 Positive Impact Consulting, LLC - Services as Administrator of White      7,000.00                      16,500.00
                          City August 2025
   9/30/2025 AP           INV: 2025-0346 DS Accounting Services, LLC - Monthly Accounting Per                1,250.00                      17,750.00
                          Agreement White City September 2025


                                                                           Page 18                                                5/28/2026 08:51 AM
                                              Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                           General Ledger for White City - 7/1/2025 to 6/30/2026
        Account                                                                                                                          Balance
    Date         Code                                      Description                                       Debit        Credit
4100.600 - Professional and Technical ( continued )
   9/30/2025 AP           INV: 127 Positive Impact Consulting, LLC - Services as Administrator of White        7,000.00                     24,750.00
                          City September 2025
  10/20/2025 AP           INV: 251020 White City Water Improvement District - Onsolve CodeRED 2025-            2,712.05                     27,462.05
                          26 Annual Shared Contract
  10/31/2025 AP           INV: 128 Positive Impact Consulting, LLC - Services as Administrator of White        7,000.00                     34,462.05
                          City October 2025
  10/31/2025 AP           INV: 2025-0374 DS Accounting Services, LLC - Monthly Accounting per                  1,250.00                     35,712.05
                          Agreement October 2025
  11/30/2025 AP           INV: 2025-0400 DS Accounting Services, LLC - Monthly Accounting Per                  1,250.00                     36,962.05
                          Agreement White City November 2025
  11/30/2025 AP           INV: 129 Positive Impact Consulting, LLC - Services as Administrator of White        7,000.00                     43,962.05
                          City November 2025
  12/24/2025 AP           INV: 130 Positive Impact Consulting, LLC - Services as Administrator of White        7,000.00                     50,962.05
                          City December 2025
  12/24/2025 AP           INV: 2025-0420 DS Accounting Services, LLC - Monthly Accounting Per                  1,250.00                     52,212.05
                          Agreement December 2025
   1/31/2026 AP           INV: 2026-0038 DS Accounting Services, LLC - Monthly Accounting                      1,250.00                     53,462.05
   1/31/2026 AP           INV: 131 Positive Impact Consulting, LLC - Services as administrator of White        7,000.00                     60,462.05
                          City Jan 2026
   2/28/2026 AP           INV: 132 Positive Impact Consulting, LLC - Services as Administrator of White        7,000.00                     67,462.05
                          City - Feb 2026
   3/31/2026 AP           INV: 133 Positive Impact Consulting, LLC - Services as Administrator of White        7,000.00                     74,462.05
                          City - Mar 2026
   3/31/2026 AP           INV: 2026-0058 DS Accounting Services, LLC - Monthly Accounting Per                  1,250.00                     75,712.05
                          Agreement - White City - Mar 2026
   3/31/2026 AP           INV: 2026-0058 DS Accounting Services, LLC - Monthly Accounting Per                  1,250.00                     76,962.05
                          Agreement - White City - Feb 2026
   4/30/2026 AP           INV: 134 Positive Impact Consulting, LLC - Services as Administrator of White        7,000.00                     83,962.05
                          City - Apr 2026
                                                                                                            $83,962.05                    $83,962.05

4100.635 - Election Support Services                                                                                                           $0.00
    7/2/2025 AP          INV: CCO0000448 Salt Lake County Clerk - 2025 Election Admin Fee for                   500.00                        500.00
                         White City
                                                                                                               $500.00                       $500.00

4100.640 - Grant Related                                                                                                                       $0.00
   3/31/2026 JE          1347 - Parks Master Plan contribution                                               19,598.00                     19,598.00
                                                                                                            $19,598.00                    $19,598.00

4100.860 - Code Enforcement Abatements                                                                                                          $0.00
  12/10/2025 NBPT       Receipt 58156: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - 28-17-153-008-0000                           372.55         (372.55)
                                                                                                                           ($372.55)        ($372.55)

4100.870 - Rent                                                                                                                                $0.00
    7/1/2025 AP           INV: 240701 White City Water Improvement District - Additional Meetings               300.00                        300.00
                          rental
   7/14/2025 AP           INV: 250714 White City Water Improvement District - WCWID Lease - 1Year              1,200.00                      1,500.00
                          12 Monthly Meetings
                                                                                                             $1,500.00                      $1,500.00

4100.928 - Contribution to General Fund                                                                                                         $0.00
   7/31/2025 JE           1178 - Contribution to GF                                                           88,248.01                     88,248.01
   8/31/2025 JE           1233 - Contribution to GF                                                          150,092.89                    238,340.90
   9/30/2025 JE           1251 - Contribution to GF                                                           92,350.23                    330,691.13
  10/31/2025 JE           1270 - Contribution to GF                                                          146,052.12                    476,743.25
  11/30/2025 JE           1280 - Contribution to GF                                                           92,512.48                    569,255.73
  12/31/2025 JE           1310 - Contribution to GF                                                          141,190.52                    710,446.25
   1/31/2026 JE           1317 - Contribution to GF                                                           87,300.64                    797,746.89
   2/28/2026 JE           1328 - Contribution to GF                                                          123,596.16                    921,343.05
   3/31/2026 JE           1355 - Contribution to GF                                                          113,809.66                  1,035,152.71
                                                                                                          $1,035,152.71                 $1,035,152.71


Report Total:                                                                                                                                  $0.00




                                                                          Page 19                                                  5/28/2026 08:51 AM
                                         Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                         General Ledger for White City Council Designated Fund - 7/1/2025 to 6/30/2026
        Account                                                                                                      Balance
    Date         Code                                     Description                   Debit         Credit
10100 - Cash - Zions Checking                                                                                              $0.00
    7/1/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 12561 - Checking - Zions 982576647                 3,541.16                      3,541.16
   7/22/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 12681 - Checking - Zions 982576647                13,078.47                     16,619.63
    8/8/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 12774 - Checking - Zions 982576647                 2,588.74                     19,208.37
   8/20/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 12857 - Checking - Zions 982576647                20,873.66                     40,082.03
   9/30/2025 JE          1250 - 1250 - Undeposited receipts                              17,280.35                     57,362.38
   9/30/2025 BKTR        Bank Transfer to PTIF                                                         57,362.38            0.00
   10/9/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13210 - Checking - Zions 982576647                 3,587.55                      3,587.55
  11/17/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13522 - Checking - Zions 982576647                 1,803.28                      5,390.83
  11/21/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13544 - Checking - Zions 982576647                 1,319.00                      6,709.83
   12/5/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13625 - Checking - Zions 982576647                10,246.72                     16,956.55
  12/30/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13754 - Checking - Zions 982576647                 4,847.88                     21,804.43
    1/5/2026 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13779 - Checking - Zions 982576647                 7,501.56                     29,305.99
   1/22/2026 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13865 - Checking - Zions 982576647                 9,588.54                     38,894.53
    2/5/2026 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13886 - Checking - Zions 982576647                 7,873.85                     46,768.38
   2/20/2026 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13905 - Checking - Zions 982576647                 3,948.00                     50,716.38
   2/27/2026 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13966 - Checking - Zions 982576647                21,179.86                     71,896.24
   3/23/2026 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13984 - Checking - Zions 982576647                 8,746.64                     80,642.88
   3/30/2026 DEP         Bank Deposit: 14021 - Checking - Zions 982576647                11,419.34                     92,062.22
    5/4/2026 DEP         Bank Deposit: 14086 - Checking - Zions 982576647                 7,389.58                     99,451.80
    5/5/2026 DEP         Bank Deposit: 14087 - Checking - Zions 982576647                 8,981.19                    108,432.99
   5/19/2026 DEP         Bank Deposit: 14246 - Checking - Zions 982576647                 4,006.00                    112,438.99
   5/22/2026 DEP         Bank Deposit: 14257 - Checking - Zions 982576647                 7,054.41                    119,493.40
                                                                                       $176,855.78   ($57,362.38)    $119,493.40

10101 - Cash - Zions CARES                                                                                               $567.16

10200 - Cash - PTIF                                                                                                  $163,933.60
   7/23/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 12826 - PTIF                                       2,408.47                    166,342.07
   7/31/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 12829 - PTIF                                         412.81                    166,754.88
   8/25/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13248 - PTIF                                       3,670.40                    170,425.28
   8/31/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13250 - PTIF                                         634.83                    171,060.11
   9/23/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13254 - PTIF                                       2,053.83                    173,113.94
   9/30/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13287 - PTIF                                         610.01                    173,723.95
   9/30/2025 BKTR        Bank Transfer from Checking - Zions 982576647                   57,362.38                    231,086.33
  10/23/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13468 - PTIF                                          14.41                    231,100.74
  10/23/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13469 - PTIF                                       2,201.11                    233,301.85
  10/31/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13472 - PTIF                                         862.94                    234,164.79
  11/20/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13687 - PTIF                                         683.61                    234,848.40
  11/30/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13689 - PTIF                                         804.57                    235,652.97
  12/20/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13832 - PTIF                                       1,993.93                    237,646.90
  12/20/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13833 - PTIF                                         174.14                    237,821.04
  12/20/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13834 - PTIF                                          89.52                    237,910.56
  12/20/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13835 - PTIF                                          28.02                    237,938.58
  12/31/2025 DEP         Bank Deposit: 13837 - PTIF                                         793.26                    238,731.84
   1/27/2026 DEP         Bank Deposit: 14000 - PTIF                                       4,188.03                    242,919.87
   1/31/2026 DEP         Bank Deposit: 14001 - PTIF                                         770.75                    243,690.62
   2/26/2026 DEP         Bank Deposit: 14004 - PTIF                                       2,456.73                    246,147.35
   2/28/2026 DEP         Bank Deposit: 14005 - PTIF                                         704.77                    246,852.12
   3/23/2026 DEP         Bank Deposit: 14057 - PTIF                                       2,429.78                    249,281.90
   3/31/2026 DEP         Bank Deposit: 14063 - PTIF                                         841.77                    250,123.67
                                                                                        $86,190.07                   $250,123.67

10202 - Cash - PTIF 9074 CARES                                                                                       $200,371.78
   7/31/2025 DEP          Bank Deposit: 12828 - PTIF 9074 CARES                             760.57                    201,132.35
   8/31/2025 DEP          Bank Deposit: 13285 - PTIF 9074 CARES                             762.87                    201,895.22
   9/30/2025 DEP          Bank Deposit: 13286 - PTIF 9074 CARES                             622.74                    202,517.96
  10/31/2025 DEP          Bank Deposit: 13473 - PTIF 9074 CARES                             734.52                    203,252.48
  11/30/2025 DEP          Bank Deposit: 13691 - PTIF 9074 CARES                             690.45                    203,942.93
  12/31/2025 DEP          Bank Deposit: 13839 - PTIF 9074 CARES                             694.85                    204,637.78
   1/31/2026 DEP          Bank Deposit: 14002 - PTIF 9074 CARES                             670.51                    205,308.29
   2/28/2026 DEP          Bank Deposit: 14006 - PTIF 9074 CARES                             557.23                    205,865.52
   3/31/2026 DEP          Bank Deposit: 14065 - PTIF 9074 CARES                             674.82                    206,540.34
                                                                                         $6,168.56                   $206,540.34

10750 - Undeposited Receipts                                                                                                $0.00
    7/1/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                  3,541.16                       3,541.16
    7/1/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                    3,541.16            0.00
   7/22/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                 13,078.47                      13,078.47
   7/22/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                  13,078.47             0.00
   7/23/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                  2,408.47                       2,408.47
   7/23/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                    2,408.47            0.00
   7/31/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                  1,173.38                       1,173.38
                                                                         Page 1                                5/28/2026 08:51 AM
                                         Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                         General Ledger for White City Council Designated Fund - 7/1/2025 to 6/30/2026
        Account                                                                                                       Balance
    Date        Code                                     Description                    Debit          Credit
10750 - Undeposited Receipts ( continued )
   7/31/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                    1,173.38             0.00
    8/8/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                  2,588.74                        2,588.74
    8/8/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                    2,588.74             0.00
   8/20/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                 20,873.67                       20,873.67
   8/20/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                   20,873.66             0.01
   8/25/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                  3,670.40                        3,670.41
   8/25/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                    3,670.40             0.01
   8/31/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                  1,397.70                        1,397.71
   8/31/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                    1,397.70             0.01
   9/22/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                 17,280.35                       17,280.36
   9/23/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                  2,053.83                       19,334.19
   9/23/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                    2,053.83        17,280.36
   9/30/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                  1,232.75                       18,513.11
   9/30/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                    1,232.75        17,280.36
   9/30/2025 JE         1250 - Undeposited receipts                                                     17,280.35             0.01
   10/9/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                  3,587.55                        3,587.56
   10/9/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                    3,587.55             0.01
  10/23/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                  2,215.52                        2,215.53
  10/23/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                    2,215.52             0.01
  10/31/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                  1,597.46                        1,597.47
  10/31/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                    1,597.46             0.01
  11/17/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                  1,803.28                        1,803.29
  11/17/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                    1,803.28             0.01
  11/20/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                   683.61                           683.62
  11/20/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                      683.61             0.01
  11/21/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                  1,319.00                        1,319.01
  11/21/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                    1,319.00             0.01
  11/30/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                  1,495.02                        1,495.03
  11/30/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                    1,495.02             0.01
   12/5/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                 10,246.72                       10,246.73
   12/5/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                   10,246.72             0.01
  12/20/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                  2,285.62                        2,285.63
  12/20/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                    2,285.61             0.02
  12/30/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                  4,847.88                        4,847.90
  12/30/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                    4,847.88             0.02
  12/31/2025 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                  1,488.11                        1,488.13
  12/31/2025 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                     1,488.11            0.02
    1/5/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                  7,501.56                        7,501.58
    1/5/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                    7,501.56             0.02
   1/22/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                  9,588.54                        9,588.56
   1/22/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                    9,588.54             0.02
   1/27/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                  4,188.03                        4,188.05
   1/27/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                    4,188.03             0.02
   1/31/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                  1,441.26                        1,441.28
   1/31/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                    1,441.26             0.02
    2/5/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                  7,873.85                        7,873.87
    2/5/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                    7,873.85             0.02
   2/18/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                  3,948.00                        3,948.02
   2/20/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                    3,948.00             0.02
   2/26/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                 23,636.59                       23,636.61
   2/26/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                    2,456.73        21,179.88
   2/27/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                   21,179.86             0.02
   2/28/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                  1,262.00                        1,262.02
   2/28/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                    1,262.00             0.02
   3/23/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                 11,176.42                       11,176.44
   3/23/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                    11,176.42            0.02
   3/30/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                 11,419.34                       11,419.36
   3/30/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                    11,419.34            0.02
   3/31/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                  1,516.59                        1,516.61
   3/31/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                    1,516.59             0.02
   4/24/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                  7,389.58                        7,389.60
    5/4/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                    7,389.58             0.02
    5/5/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                  8,981.19                        8,981.21
    5/5/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                    8,981.19             0.02
   5/19/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                  4,006.00                        4,006.02
   5/19/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                    4,006.00             0.02
   5/22/2026 NBPT       Receipting - Non-Billed Payments                                  7,054.41                        7,054.43
   5/22/2026 DEP        Bank Deposits                                                                     7,054.41            0.02
                                                                                       $211,852.05   ($211,852.03)           $0.02


                                                                       Page 2                                   5/28/2026 08:52 AM
                                         Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                         General Ledger for White City Council Designated Fund - 7/1/2025 to 6/30/2026
        Account                                                                                                                Balance
    Date        Code                                      Description                                Debit       Credit
12500 - Due From Other Gov.                                                                                                     $30,451.24
    7/1/2025 NBPT       Receipt 54211: Greater Salt Lake Municipal Sevices District -                              3,541.16      26,910.08
                        20250617TAX140M White City
   7/22/2025 NBPT       Receipt 56481: Greater Salt Lake Municipal Sevices District - 8601 Energy                 13,078.47      13,831.61
                        02/25 White City
   7/23/2025 NBPT       Receipt 55182: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - Municipal Energy                  2,408.47      11,423.14
   7/31/2025 JE         1176 - Income Accrual                                                         2,053.83                   13,476.97
   7/31/2025 JE         1176 - Income Accrual                                                        17,028.67                   30,505.64
   7/31/2025 JE         1176 - Income Accrual                                                         1,796.96                   32,302.60
    8/8/2025 NBPT       Receipt 56483: Greater Salt Lake Municipal Sevices District -                              2,588.74      29,713.86
                        20250722TAX140M White City
   8/20/2025 NBPT       Receipt 55084: Greater Salt Lake Municipal Sevices District - Google Fiber                 3,845.00      25,868.86
                        2Q25 ROW Fee White City
   8/20/2025 NBPT       Receipt 55084: Greater Salt Lake Municipal Sevices District - 8601 Energy                 17,028.67        8,840.19
                        07/25 White City
   8/25/2025 NBPT       Receipt 56396: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - MET                               3,670.40       5,169.79
   8/31/2025 JE         1232 - Income Accrual - Aug 2025                                              2,215.52                    7,385.31
   8/31/2025 JE         1232 - Income Accrual - Aug 2025                                             17,280.35                   24,665.66
   8/31/2025 JE         1232 - Income Accrual - Aug 2025                                              1,790.59                   26,456.25
   9/22/2025 NBPT       Receipt 56542: Greater Salt Lake Municipal Sevices District - 8601 Enerrgy                17,280.35       9,175.90
                        08/25 for White City
   9/23/2025 NBPT       Receipt 56479: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - MET                               2,053.83       7,122.07
   9/30/2025 JE         1243 - Income Accrual                                                           683.61                    7,805.68
   9/30/2025 JE         1243 - Income Accrual                                                        13,593.28                   21,398.96
   9/30/2025 JE         1243 - Income Accrual                                                         1,803.28                   23,202.24
   9/30/2025 JE         1243 - Income Accrual                                                         3,881.00                   27,083.24
   10/9/2025 NBPT       Receipt 56061: Greater Salt Lake Municipal Sevices District -                              1,790.59      25,292.65
                        20250923TAX140M White City
   10/9/2025 NBPT       Receipt 56061: Greater Salt Lake Municipal Sevices District -                              1,796.96      23,495.69
                        20250822TAX140M White City
  10/23/2025 NBPT       Receipt 57173: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - MET                               2,215.52      21,280.17
  10/31/2025 JE         1268 - Accrue Income                                                          2,285.62                   23,565.79
  10/31/2025 JE         1268 - Accrue Income                                                          8,114.26                   31,680.05
  10/31/2025 JE         1268 - Accrue Income                                                          2,132.46                   33,812.51
  11/17/2025 NBPT       Receipt 57014: Greater Salt Lake Municipal Sevices District -                              1,803.28      32,009.23
                        20251007TAX140M
  11/20/2025 NBPT       Receipt 57716: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - MET                                 683.61      31,325.62
  11/21/2025 NBPT       Receipt 57159: Greater Salt Lake Municipal Sevices District - 3Q25 ROW Fee                 1,319.00      30,006.62
                        True-up White City
  11/30/2025 JE         1278 - Income Accrual                                                         4,188.03                   34,194.65
  11/30/2025 JE         1278 - Income Accrual                                                         7,501.56                   41,696.21
  11/30/2025 JE         1278 - Income Accrual                                                         4,847.88                   46,544.09
   12/5/2025 NBPT       Receipt 57412: Greater Salt Lake Municipal Sevices District - 8601 Energy                  8,114.26      38,429.83
                        10/25 White City
   12/5/2025 NBPT       Receipt 57412: Greater Salt Lake Municipal Sevices District -                              2,132.46      36,297.37
                        20251119TAX142M White City
  12/20/2025 NBPT       Receipt 58155: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - MET                               2,285.62      34,011.75
  12/30/2025 NBPT       Receipt 57774: Greater Salt Lake Municipal Sevices District -                              4,847.88      29,163.87
                        20251219TAX14M
  12/31/2025 JE         1309 - Accrue Income                                                          3,948.00                   33,111.87
  12/31/2025 JE         1309 - Accrue Income                                                          2,456.73                   35,568.60
  12/31/2025 JE         1309 - Accrue Income                                                          9,588.54                   45,157.14
  12/31/2025 JE         1309 - Accrue Income                                                          7,873.85                   53,030.99
    1/5/2026 NBPT       Receipt 57890: Greater Salt Lake Municipal Sevices District - 8601 Energy                  7,501.56      45,529.43
                        11/25 White City
   1/27/2026 NBPT       Receipt 58909: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - MET                               4,188.03       41,341.40
   1/31/2026 JE         1316 - Income Accrual                                                         2,429.78                    43,771.18
   1/31/2026 JE         1316 - Income Accrual                                                         9,579.78                    53,350.96
   1/31/2026 JE         1316 - Income Accrual                                                        11,600.08                    64,951.04
    2/5/2026 NBPT       Receipt 58189: Dominion Energy - MET Dec 2025                                              7,873.85       57,077.19
   2/18/2026 NBPT       Receipt 58861: Google Fiber Inc - Oct-Dec 2025 Google Fiber Fee                            3,948.00       53,129.19
   2/26/2026 NBPT       Receipt 58876: Dominion Energy - MET - Jan 2026                                           11,600.08       41,529.11
   2/26/2026 NBPT       Receipt 58877: Pacificorp Rocky Mountain Power - MET - Jan 2026                            9,579.78       31,949.33
   2/26/2026 NBPT       Receipt 58913: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - MET                               2,456.73       29,492.60
   2/28/2026 JE         1349 - Income Accrual -                                                       2,336.78                    31,829.38
   2/28/2026 JE         1349 - Income Accrual -                                                       8,746.64                    40,576.02
   2/28/2026 JE         1349 - Income Accrual -                                                      11,419.34                    51,995.36
   3/23/2026 NBPT       Receipt 58899: Pacificorp Rocky Mountain Power - MET - Feb 2026                            8,746.64       43,248.72
   3/23/2026 NBPT       Receipt 58941: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - MET                               2,429.78       40,818.94
   3/30/2026 NBPT       Receipt 58916: Dominion Energy - MET - Feb 2026                                           11,419.34       29,399.60
   3/31/2026 JE         1350 - Income Accrual -                                                       2,500.00                    31,899.60
   3/31/2026 JE         1350 - Income Accrual -                                                       7,389.58                    39,289.18
                                                                        Page 3                                           5/28/2026 08:52 AM
                                           Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                           General Ledger for White City Council Designated Fund - 7/1/2025 to 6/30/2026
        Account                                                                                                                        Balance
    Date        Code                                     Description                                     Debit          Credit
12500 - Due From Other Gov. ( continued )
   3/31/2026 JE         1350 - Income Accrual -                                                           10,000.00                       49,289.18
   3/31/2026 JE         1350 - Income Accrual -                                                            4,000.00                       53,289.18
   4/24/2026 NBPT       Receipt 58945: Pacificorp Rocky Mountain Power - MET - Apr 2026                                   7,389.58        45,899.60
    5/5/2026 NBPT       Receipt 58963: Enbridge Gas - MET - Mar WC                                                        8,981.19        36,918.41
   5/19/2026 NBPT       Receipt 61510: Compliance Solutions Inc. - Google Fiber 1Q26 ROW Fee                              4,006.00        32,912.41
                        White City
   5/22/2026 NBPT       Receipt 61581: Pacificorp Rocky Mountain Power - MET - White City 04.2026                          7,054.41      25,858.00
                                                                                                        $185,066.00   ($189,659.24)     $25,858.00

23455 - CARES2 Deferred Revenue                                                                                                       ($184,684.55)

29000 - Unassigned Net Position (Fund Bal)                                                                                            ($210,639.23)

3100.112 - MET-Municipal Telecom                                                                                                               $0.00
   7/31/2025 JE          1176 - Income Accrual                                                                             2,053.83       (2,053.83)
   8/31/2025 JE          1232 - Income Accrual - Aug 2025                                                                  2,215.52       (4,269.35)
   9/30/2025 JE          1243 - Income Accrual                                                                               683.61       (4,952.96)
  10/31/2025 JE          1268 - Accrue Income                                                                              2,285.62       (7,238.58)
  11/30/2025 JE          1278 - Income Accrual                                                                             4,188.03      (11,426.61)
  12/31/2025 JE          1309 - Accrue Income                                                                              2,456.73     (13,883.34)
   1/31/2026 JE          1316 - Income Accrual                                                                             2,429.78     (16,313.12)
   2/28/2026 JE          1349 - Income Accrual -                                                                           2,336.78     (18,649.90)
   3/31/2026 JE          1350 - Income Accrual -                                                                           2,500.00     (21,149.90)
                                                                                                                       ($21,149.90)    ($21,149.90)

3100.113 - MET-Pacificorp/Rocky Mtn Power                                                                                                     $0.00
   7/22/2025 NBPT         Receipt 54644: Greater Salt Lake Municipal Sevices District - 8601 Energy                      13,078.47      (13,078.47)
                          06/25 White City
   7/22/2025 NBPT         Receipt 56481: Greater Salt Lake Municipal Sevices District - 8601 Energy       13,078.47                            0.00
                          02/25 White City
   7/31/2025 JE           1176 - Income Accrual                                                                           17,028.67     (17,028.67)
   8/31/2025 JE           1232 - Income Accrual - Aug 2025                                                                17,280.35     (34,309.02)
   9/30/2025 JE           1243 - Income Accrual                                                                           13,593.28     (47,902.30)
  10/31/2025 JE           1268 - Accrue Income                                                                             8,114.26     (56,016.56)
  11/30/2025 JE           1278 - Income Accrual                                                                            7,501.56     (63,518.12)
  12/31/2025 JE           1309 - Accrue Income                                                                             9,588.54     (73,106.66)
   1/22/2026 NBPT         Receipt 58164: Pacificorp Rocky Mountain Power - Dec MET Revenue                                 9,588.54     (82,695.20)
   1/31/2026 JE           1316 - Income Accrual                                                                            9,579.78     (92,274.98)
   2/28/2026 JE           1349 - Income Accrual -                                                                          8,746.64    (101,021.62)
   3/31/2026 JE           1350 - Income Accrual -                                                                          7,389.58    (108,411.20)
                                                                                                         $13,078.47   ($121,489.67)   ($108,411.20)

3100.114 - MET-Questar Gas/Dominion Energy                                                                                                    $0.00
   7/31/2025 JE         1176 - Income Accrual                                                                             1,796.96       (1,796.96)
    8/8/2025 NBPT       Receipt 54937: Greater Salt Lake Municipal Sevices District -                                     2,588.74       (4,385.70)
                        20250722TAX140M White City
    8/8/2025 NBPT       Receipt 56483: Greater Salt Lake Municipal Sevices District -                      2,588.74                      (1,796.96)
                        20250722TAX140M White City
   8/31/2025 JE         1232 - Income Accrual - Aug 2025                                                                   1,790.59      (3,587.55)
   9/30/2025 JE         1243 - Income Accrual                                                                              1,803.28      (5,390.83)
  10/31/2025 JE         1268 - Accrue Income                                                                               2,132.46      (7,523.29)
  11/30/2025 JE         1278 - Income Accrual                                                                              4,847.88     (12,371.17)
  12/31/2025 JE         1309 - Accrue Income                                                                               7,873.85     (20,245.02)
   1/31/2026 JE         1316 - Income Accrual                                                                             11,600.08     (31,845.10)
   2/28/2026 JE         1349 - Income Accrual -                                                                           11,419.34     (43,264.44)
   3/31/2026 JE         1350 - Income Accrual -                                                                           10,000.00     (53,264.44)
                                                                                                          $2,588.74    ($55,853.18)    ($53,264.44)

3100.401 - Google Franchise Fee                                                                                                               $0.00
   9/30/2025 JE          1243 - Income Accrual                                                                             3,881.00      (3,881.00)
  12/31/2025 JE          1309 - Accrue Income                                                                              3,948.00      (7,829.00)
   3/31/2026 JE          1350 - Income Accrual -                                                                           4,000.00     (11,829.00)
                                                                                                                       ($11,829.00)    ($11,829.00)

3600.100 - Interest Earnings                                                                                                                  $0.00
   7/31/2025 NBPT          Receipt 55184: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - Interest Earnings                       760.57         (760.57)
   7/31/2025 NBPT          Receipt 55185: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - Interest Earnings                       412.81       (1,173.38)
   8/31/2025 NBPT          Receipt 56398: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - Interest Earnings                       634.83       (1,808.21)
   8/31/2025 NBPT          Receipt 56538: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - Interest Earnings                       762.87       (2,571.08)
   9/30/2025 NBPT          Receipt 56539: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - Interest Earnings                       622.74       (3,193.82)
   9/30/2025 NBPT          Receipt 56540: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - Interest Earnings                       610.01       (3,803.83)
  10/31/2025 NBPT          Receipt 57175: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - Interest Earnings                       862.94       (4,666.77)
  10/31/2025 NBPT          Receipt 57176: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - Interest Earnings                       734.52       (5,401.29)
                                                                           Page 4                                                5/28/2026 08:52 AM
                                           Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                           General Ledger for White City Council Designated Fund - 7/1/2025 to 6/30/2026
        Account                                                                                                                 Balance
    Date         Code                                       Description                                 Debit    Credit
3600.100 - Interest Earnings ( continued )
  11/30/2025 NBPT          Receipt 57718: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - Interest Earnings                 804.57       (6,205.86)
  11/30/2025 NBPT          Receipt 57719: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - Interest Earnings                 690.45       (6,896.31)
  12/31/2025 NBPT          Receipt 58157: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - Interest Earnings                 793.26       (7,689.57)
  12/31/2025 NBPT          Receipt 58158: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - Interest Earnings                 694.85       (8,384.42)
   1/31/2026 NBPT          Receipt 58910: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - Interest Earnings                 770.75       (9,155.17)
   1/31/2026 NBPT          Receipt 58911: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - Interest Earnings                 670.51       (9,825.68)
   2/28/2026 NBPT          Receipt 58914: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - Interest Earnings                 704.77     (10,530.45)
   2/28/2026 NBPT          Receipt 58915: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - Interest Earnings                 557.23      (11,087.68)
   3/31/2026 NBPT          Receipt 58943: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - Interest Earnings                 841.77      (11,929.45)
   3/31/2026 NBPT          Receipt 58947: Utah Public Treasurers' Investment Fund - Interest Earnings                 674.82     (12,604.27)
                                                                                                                ($12,604.27)    ($12,604.27)


Report Total:                                                                                                                          $0.00




                                                                           Page 5                                         5/28/2026 08:52 AM
                                     WHITE CITY, UTAH

                                 RESOLUTION NO. 2026-06-01

               A RESOLUTION OF THE WHITE CITY COUNCIL
            ADOPTING THE FISCAL YEAR 2027 WHITE CITY BUDGET

       WHEREAS, White City is a Municipality pursuant to Utah Code §§ 10-1-201.5 et seq.,
and

        WHEREAS, the Council has complied in all respects with State Law, including holding
public hearings, in establishing budgets for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2026 and ending June
30, 2027; and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to fiscal policy for funding the 2027 White City Budget, the Greater
Salt Lake Municipal Services District (the “MSD”) adopted the FY2027 Budget for the MSD on May
13, 2026, releasing the funding for the FY2027 White City Budget; and

       WHEREAS, the noticing for the public hearing to consider and copies of the FY2027 White
City Tentative Budget, (Attachment “A”) were made available for public consideration at least ten
(10) days prior to the date of the public hearing for the Budget; and

      WHEREAS, the adoption of the FY2027 Budget will allow White City to comply with State
Law and the Uniform Fiscal Procedures Act for Cities;

       THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE WHITE CITY COUNCIL as follows:

      SECTION 1. The White City Council hereby adopts the FY2027 White City Final Budget,
Attachment “A”.

       SECTION 2. That upon the final adoption, the budget shall be in effect for the budget year
and subject to later amendment as provided by law.

        SECTION 3. A copy of the final budget shall be posted and made available to the public on
the City’s website: Whitecity.Utah.gov

       SECTION 4. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon passage thereof.

       APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 4th Day of June 2026 by the White City Council, White
City, Utah.

                                                    ___________________________________
                                                    ALLAN PERRY, MAYOR
ATTESTED:
                                         APPROVAL AS TO FORM:

_________________________________
RORI L. ANDREASON                        _____________________________
CLERK/RECORDER                           CAMERON PLATT
                                         ATTORNEY


VOTING

MAYOR PERRY voting                  ______

COUNCIL MEMBER PRICE voting         ______

COUNCIL MEMBER HUISH voting         ______

COUNCIL MEMBER MAHONEY voting       ______

COUNCIL MEMBER SHELTON voting       ______
ATTACHMENT “A”
White City - Fund 70

                                     FY2025 Actual FY2026 Budget FY2027 Budget
Change In Net Position
Revenue:
Taxes
Sales Taxes
3100.300 Sales Tax                         948,692      1,000,000       925,000
Total Sales Taxes                          948,692      1,000,000       925,000

SB 136 Sales Tax
3100.350 SB 136 Sales Tax                   88,221        90,000         92,500
Total SB 136 Sales Tax                      88,221        90,000         92,500

Total Taxes                              1,036,913      1,090,000     1,017,500

Intergovernmental revenue
Road Funds
3100.560 B&C Road Fund Allotment           278,115       240,000        280,000
3100.562 County Public Transit Tax             918             0         30,000
Total Road Funds                           279,033       240,000        310,000

Total Intergovernmental revenue            279,033       240,000        310,000

Licenses and permits
Business licenses
3100.130 Business Licenses                   3,930          2,500         4,000
Total Business licenses                      3,930          2,500         4,000

Building permits
3100.260 Building Permit                    35,333        25,000         35,000
Total Building permits                      35,333        25,000         35,000

Other license and permits
3100.250 Dog Licenses                            0             0                 0
Total Other license and permits                  0             0                 0

Total Licenses and permits                  39,263        27,500         39,000

Charges for services
Charges other
3100.420 Engineering Services                8,666          2,000         7,500
3100.450 Planning Services                   1,065              0         1,500
Total Charges other                          9,731          2,000         9,000
Total Charges for services                      9,731       2,000       9,000

Fines and forfeitures
Justice court fines/forfeitures
3100.500 Justice Court Fines/Forfeitures       40,029      30,000       9,000
Total Justice court fines/forfeitures          40,029      30,000       9,000

Total Fines and forfeitures                    40,029      30,000       9,000

Miscellaneous revenue
Interest
3600.100 Interest Earnings                     37,452      42,000      35,000
Total Interest                                 37,452      42,000      35,000

Miscellaneous other
3600.900 Other Revenue                              6           0
Total Miscellaneous other                           6           0           0

Total Miscellaneous revenue                    37,458      42,000      35,000

Contributions and transfers
3100.001 Operating transfers in               167,300
3800.100 Contribution from GF                 499,992     543,339     540,000
Total Contributions and transfers             667,292     543,339     540,000

Total Revenue:                               2,109,720   1,974,839   1,959,500

Expenditures:
Administration
4100.100 Wages                                 82,500      82,500      82,500
4100.150 Social Security Tax                    5,115       7,000       5,200
4100.160 Medicare                               1,196       2,000       1,200
4100.200 Awards, Promotional & Meals            5,514      10,070       8,000
4100.210 Subscriptions/Memberships                400           0       3,500
4100.220 Printing/Publications/Advertising      2,748      15,000       7,500
4100.240 Office Expense and Supplies            1,820       1,500      18,000
4100.310 Attorney-Civil                        54,588      82,000      80,000
4100.320 Attorney-Land Use                          0      15,000      10,000
4100.330 Training and Seminars                      0       7,070       5,000
4100.360 Web Page Development/Maintenance       2,760      24,452      30,000
4100.370 Software/Streaming                     5,107       2,000       8,000
4100.390 Payroll Processing Fees                  592       1,000       2,400
4100.410 Communications                             0      21,900       7,500
4100.420 Special Events                        52,500      53,000      50,000
4100.421 Contributions                                                 17,500
4100.430 City Elections and Voting                  0           0           0
4100.510 Insurance                                                         9,740      17,250      20,000
4100.520 Workers Comp Insurance                                               84       1,200       2,500
4100.590 Postage                                                           4,886       8,000       7,500
4100.600 Professional and Technical                                       95,922     144,900     120,000
4100.635 Election Support Services                                             0      39,497           0
4100.640 Grant Related                                                         0           0      40,000
4100.650 SL (Client) County Support Services                                 122           0           0
4100.870 Rent                                                                164       3,000       4,000
4100.880 Non-Classified Expenses                                               0       5,000       9,700
Total Administration                                                     325,757     543,339     540,000

Building-Related Expenses
Building-Related (Wages, Administration, IT, Engineering Development,
Surveyor, Storm Drain Maintence, etc.)                                                           124,544
Total Building-Related Expenses                                                0           0     124,544

Transfers
4100.928 Contribution to General Fund                                   1,441,873   1,431,500   1,294,956
48450.001 Operational Transfers out                                           567           0
Total Transfers                                                         1,442,440   1,431,500   1,294,956

Total Expenditures:                                                     1,768,197   1,974,839   1,959,500

Total Change In Net Position                                             341,522           0           0
White City Beer Tax Special Fund - Fund 72

                                             FY2025 Actual FY2026 Budget FY2027 Budget
Change In Net Position
Revenue:
Intergovernmental revenue
State liquor fund
3100.580 State Liquor Fund Allotment                 6,861          5,000         5,000
Total State liquor fund                              6,861          5,000         5,000

Total Intergovernmental revenue                      6,861          5,000         5,000

Total Revenue:                                       6,861          5,000         5,000

Expenditures:
Administration
4100.850 Beer Funds                                  6,861          5,000         5,000
Total Administration                                 6,861          5,000         5,000

Total Expenditures:                                  6,861          5,000         5,000

Total Change In Net Position                             0             0                 0
White City Council Designated Fund - Fund 75

                                               FY2025 Actual FY2026 Budget FY2027 Budget
Change In Net Position
Revenue:
Taxes
MET Taxes
3100.112 MET-Municipal Telecom                        16,164         9,600         20,000
3100.113 MET-Pacificorp/Rocky Mtn Power               75,869       108,000        125,000
3100.114 MET-Questar Gas/Dominion Energy              62,179       108,000         70,000
Total MET Taxes                                      154,211       225,600        215,000

Franchise Taxes
3100.401 Google Franchise Fee                         38,999        12,000         12,000
Total Franchise Taxes                                 38,999        12,000         12,000

Total Taxes                                          193,210       237,600        227,000

Intergovernmental revenue
CARES Act                                                                         184,685
3100.326 ARPA                                        682,646             0
Total CARES Act                                      682,646             0        184,685

Total Intergovernmental revenue                      682,646             0        184,685

Miscellaneous revenue
Interest
3600.100 Interest Earnings                            16,862          9,000        15,000
Total Interest                                        16,862          9,000        15,000

Total Miscellaneous revenue                           16,862          9,000        15,000

Contributions and transfers
3100.001 Operating Transfers in                         567              0
Total Contributions and transfers                       567              0                 0

Total Revenue:                                       893,285       246,600        426,685

Expenditures:
COVID Related Expenses                                                                  0
XXXXX Improvement Projects                                                        242,000
XXXXX Streets
XXXXX Lighting
XXXXX Sidewalks
4100.242 CARES2 Expenses                                                          184,685
4100.243 ARPA Act Expense and Supplies   682,646        0
Total COVID Related Expenses             682,646        0    426,685

Total Expenditures:                      682,646        0    426,685

Total Change In Net Position             210,639        0         0

Contribution to Fund Balance                       246,600        0
                                   DRAFT
                             WHITE CITY
                             COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
                             May 7, 2026
                             WHITE CITY WATER IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
                             999 E GALENA DRIVE, WHITE CITY, UTAH 84094


Mayor:                         Mayor Allan Perry

City Council:                  Council Member Greg Shelton
                               Council Member Linda Price
                               Council Member Neil Mahoney
                               Council Member Tyler Huish

Staff:       Rori Andreason, City Administrator; Cameron Platt, Attorney; Daniel
             Hoffman, Senior Accountant; Daniele Benigni, Long Range Planner; Chief
             Ken Aldridge, UFA; Deputy Chief Mike Bullock, Sandy City Fire; and Chief
             April Morse, UPD; and Chief Jason Mazuran, UPD.

6:00 PM – WORKSHOP
Mayor Allan Perry called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.

1. PUBLIC COMMENTS
   There were no public comments

2. DISCUSSION/CLARIFICATION OF AGENDA ITEMS
   There was no discussion necessary for clarification of agenda items

3. DISCUSS CODE TITLE UPDATES
   Cameron Platt reported that staff has developed a schedule to complete the municipal
   code updates within approximately eight months. The updates will include revisions to
   terminology, positions, and organizational structure to reflect the transition from an MSD
   to a city operating under a mayor-council form of government.

   Cameron stated that draft revisions will be presented to the Council for review and
   feedback, with any necessary adjustments made prior to adoption. He also noted that
   work has already begun on Titles 1 and 2 of the municipal code.




                   White City Council Meeting Minutes – Page 1
 4. DISCUSS COUNCIL RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE
    Council discussed the process for adding items to meeting agendas. Rori Andreason
    confirmed that agenda items are typically reviewed with the Mayor before being placed
    on the agenda. Cameron and Rori explained that items may be added up to 24 hours
    before a meeting if necessary, and special meetings regarding agenda items may be
    called when necessary. They also reviewed the process for submitting last-minute
    agenda requests. Further discussion on agenda item’s deadlines will continue at a future
    meeting before a final decision is made.

    Cameron Platt asked Council to submit any proposed revisions to the Rules of Order and
    Procedure via email.

 5. DISCUSS SCHEDULING SPECIAL STRATEGIC PLANNING MEETING
    Mayor Perry proposed holding a Council strategic planning workshop to discuss priorities,
    goals, and long-term strategies for the City. The workshop would be conducted in a board
    retreat format and is anticipated to be a half-day session held at the MSD offices during
    the week.

    Mayor Perry suggested June 11 from 8:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. as a potential date, with
    breakfast and lunch provided. He stated that he will distribute discussion topics to Council
    members and encouraged them to submit additional items they would like included on
    the agenda. A calendar invitation will be sent once the date is finalized.

 6. DISCUSS FUTURE AGENDA ITEMS
       • Marketing strategy updates
       • Court System
       • Communications plan
       • IT – Microsoft etc.

 7. CLOSE WORKSHOP MEETING
    Mayor Perry closed the workshop meeting

BUSINESS MEETING

1. WELCOME AND DETERMINE QUORUM
   Mayor Perry stated the Quorum was present, allowing the meeting to proceed

2. DISCUSS QUARTERLY FINANCIAL REPORT AND FY2027 BUDGET
  Daniel Hoffman presented the quarterly financial report, noting that the City has collected just
  over $1 million in sales tax revenue. With a budgeted sales tax revenue of $1.4 million,

                     White City Council Meeting Minutes – Page 2
   approximately 75% of the annual projection has been received, indicating revenues are on
   track with budget expectations. Administrative expenditure remains below budgeted levels.

   Council Member Neil Mahoney raised a question regarding the source of sales tax
   revenue, given the limited number of local businesses collecting sales tax within White City.

   Daniel Hoffman explained that a significant portion of the revenue is generated through
   online sales tax distributions.

   Daniel reported that the City's current fund balance is approximately $1.15 million,
   reflecting a positive financial position. He noted that a portion of these funds is restricted or
   assigned for capital projects and committed to providing Council with additional information
   regarding existing capital fund allocations.

   Total revenue collected to date across all funds, including the General Fund, is
   approximately $1.578 million.

   Daniel Hoffman also reported that the City recently received its annual beer tax allocation
   of $3,466. He explained that these funds are restricted and must be used for specific
   purposes as allowed by state regulations.

   The MET Fund, which includes revenues from franchise agreements with utility providers
   such as Rocky Mountain Power, Questar, and Google Fiber, has collected approximately
   $194,000 year-to-date. No expenditures have been made from the fund thus far this year.

   2.1 FINANCIAL COMMITTEE REPORT
   Council Member Neil Mahoney requested an allocation report detailing how funds
   have been distributed and utilized. It was noted that total expenditures for the year
   are approximately $1.8 million, with those figures expected to fluctuate as the fiscal
   year progresses.

   Council members requested a more detailed breakdown of Public Works
   expenditures. Mayor Perry stated that a report outlining Public Works costs would be
   provided to the Council. The financial information presented also included expenditure
   data from the previous four years for comparison purposes.

   Council discussed the value of periodically reviewing City expenditures through Audit
   Committee meetings. Members expressed that a better understanding of the City's
   goals, priorities, and long-term direction would assist the committee in evaluating
   expenditures and making informed recommendations regarding future fund
   allocations.

3. UNIFIED FIRE AUTHORITY REPORT
   Chief Ken Aldridge updated the Council on the following:

                      White City Council Meeting Minutes – Page 3
   An update was provided regarding HB 410, which establishes implementation
   timelines for building code requirements in high-risk fire areas. It was noted that the
   earliest the updated code can be applied is January 1, 2027. White City is classified
   as a lower-risk area, so the legislation is not expected to result in significant changes
   locally.

   The Chief also reported on ongoing training initiatives designed to meet the demands
   of a growing community. Training efforts include continuing education, leadership
   development, and officer training to ensure personnel maintain a high level of
   readiness and are prepared to respond effectively to emergencies.

   UFA advised that fire season is expected to begin earlier than usual due to below-
   average snowpack and rapidly warming temperatures. Residents were encouraged
   to remain vigilant, particularly during Red Flag warning days when fire danger is
   elevated.

   As part of the monthly safety message, UFA highlighted the hazards associated with
   spring runoff, including increased water levels, faster currents, and cold water
   temperatures that can lead to cold shock. Residents were encouraged to exercise
   caution around waterways, wear life jackets, and closely supervise children.

   UFA also announced upcoming community CPR classes. A class was held on May
   13 at Station 124, and another class is scheduled for June 10 from 6:00 p.m. to 10:00
   p.m. in Eagle Mountain.

4. UNIFIED POLICE DEPARTMENT REPORT
   Chief Morse introduced Elizabeth Garity, the new part-time social worker with UPD.
   Elizabeth explained that the position is focused on identifying opportunities to provide
   the greatest benefit to the community while maximizing available resources. Services
   may include mental health support, crisis intervention, and assistance following
   traumatic events.

   In response to a Council question regarding the long-term sustainability of the grant-
   funded position, Elizabeth expressed hope that demonstrated community need and
   positive outcomes could support continuation of the program beyond the grant
   period. Chief Morse added that extensive data collection has been incorporated into
   the program to measure its effectiveness. He noted that if the position results in
   reduced calls for service and other measurable benefits, the cost savings could help
   justify future funding. Council requested contact information for Elizabeth to assist
   with community referrals, and Chief Morse stated that it would be provided via email.

   Chief Morse reported that during April, UPD responded to 138 calls for service and
   handled 39 cases. Fourteen of those cases involved public peace matters, many of
                    White City Council Meeting Minutes – Page 4
  which were civil in nature. She also noted that the UPD Awards Banquet was held in
  April, where 30 members of the precinct were recognized for their service and
  contributions.

  Chief Morse provided an update on the new state e-bike law that took effect on May
  6. UPD has been conducting public education efforts regarding the changes, and
  the City is reviewing its ordinances to ensure compliance with state law.

  Council requested comparative data showing how White City's call volume and case
  types compare to the rest of the precinct, including combined statistics for White City
  and Midvale. Chief Mazuran indicated that quarterly reports, including sheriff service
  information, will be provided to all participating cities.

5. ACTION ITEMS

  5.1 APPROVE MINUTES OF APRIL 2, 2026

 MOTION: Council Member Tyler Huish MOVED to approve the Minutes of April
         2, 2026. The motion was SECONDED by Council Member Linda
         Price. Mayor Perry called for discussion on the motion There being
         none, he called for a roll call vote.
                    Mayor Allan Perry           Aye
                    Council Member Neil Mahoney Aye
                    Council Member Greg Shelton Aye
                    Council Member Tyler Huish Aye
                    Council Member Linda Price Aye
             The motion passed unanimously.

  5.2 DISCUSSION AND CONSIDERATION OF RESOLUTION NO. 2026-05-01
     AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH
     CAMERON PLAT, SHIELD LAW, FOR LEGAL SERVICES
     Rori Andreason reported that attorney interviews were conducted at the previous
     meeting, and the Council selected Cameron Platt of Shield Law to serve as the
     City's legal counsel.

     Cameron Platt briefly reviewed the proposed contract and scope of services with
     the Council.

 MOTION:     Council Member Linda Price MOVED to approve the discussion and
             consideration of Resolution no. 2026-05-01 authorizing the Mayor
             to enter into a contract with Cameron Plat, Shiel Law, for legal
             services. The motion was SECONDED by Council Member Greg
             Shelton. Mayor Perry called for discussion on the motion There

                   White City Council Meeting Minutes – Page 5
             being none, he called for a roll call vote.
                    Mayor Allan Perry           Aye
                    Council Member Neil Mahoney Aye
                    Council Member Greg Shelton Aye
                    Council Member Tyler Huish Aye
                    Council Member Linda Price Aye
             The motion passed unanimously.

  5.3. DISCUSSION AND CONSIDERATION OF RESOLUTION NO. 2026-05-02
     APPROVING THE FY2027 TENTATIVE BUDGET FOR WHITE CITY
     BEGINNING JULY 1, 2026 AND ENDING JUNE 30, 2027 AND
     ESTABLISHING A PUBLIC HEARING

 MOTION:      Council Member Tyler Huish MOVED to approve discussion item
             5.3 approving the FY2027 tentative budget for White City beginning
             July 1, 2026 and ending June 30, 2027 and establishing a public
             hearing to be held at 6:30 p.m. The motion was SECONDED by
             Council Member Linda. Mayor Perry called for discussion on the
             motion There being none, he called for a roll call vote.
                    Mayor Allan Perry           Aye
                    Council Member Neil Mahoney Aye
                    Council Member Greg Shelton Aye
                    Council Member Tyler Huish Aye
                    Council Member Linda Price Aye
             The motion passed unanimously.

6. COUNCIL REPORTS
   6.1 Mayor Allan Perry

  Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Mayor Perry reported that the
  Greater Salt Lake MSD approved its tentative budget, with final adoption scheduled
  for the following week. He and Tyler also attended a strategic planning training at the
  University of Utah, which provided useful guidance on long-term planning and goal
  setting.

  Council of Governments Mayor Perry said at the Council of Governments meeting,
  a recommendation was made to appoint Jeff Silvestrini to the UTA Planning
  Commission, though the final decision is pending gubernatorial approval.

  Unified Police Department/SLVLESA Mayor Perry said the updates from UPD and
  SLVLESA included recognition of officers at the UPD Awards Banquet, introduction

                   White City Council Meeting Minutes – Page 6
of a new crisis response K-9, and continued development of UPD’s budget. SLVLESA
reported it has reached its property tax funding cap and may need to consider
alternative funding options moving forward.

6.2 Council Member Tyler Huish

Unified Fire Authority Council Member Tyler Huish reported that the WUI code has
been updated, though it is not expected to significantly impact White City due to its
lower wildfire risk classification. A fireworks restriction map is currently available, and
staff were requested to ensure a link to the UFA fireworks map is posted on the City’s
website by June 1. The map may be updated if fire conditions worsen and additional
restrictions become necessary.

It was also noted that attendance at a recent UFA banquet was very positive.

Unified Fire Service Area Council Member Tyler Huish said there was nothing to
report.


6.3 Council Member Linda Price

  Mosquito Abatement Council Member Linda Price said that warmer weather has
  already led to increased service calls, marking the start of a longer breeding
  season. Residents were encouraged to eliminate standing water to help reduce
  mosquito activity. The program received 30 seasonal job applications and hired 3
  staff members, with interns also serving as a valuable support resource. She said
  expanded public outreach efforts are planned this year, including participation in
  community events such as Movies in the Park and health fairs to increase public
  education on mosquito prevention.

  Salt Lake County Animal Control Council Member Linda Price provided an
  update highlighting continued success as a no-kill shelter for 12 years and
  recognition as Best of State for 17 consecutive years. A 24-hour emergency
  contact line remains available for urgent situations. She said Senate Bill 102 did
  not pass this session but is expected to be revisited in the future.


6.4 Council Member Greg Shelton

  Wasatch Front Waste & Recycling District- Council Member Greg Shelton
  reported on a recent retreat, which he was unable to attend. He also reported that
  dumpster days have concluded and were completed successfully. They are

                  White City Council Meeting Minutes – Page 7
     exploring the potential for establishing a resident drop-off location as part of next
     year’s dumpster days.

   6.5 Council Member Neil Mahoney

     White City Community Council Council Member Neil Mahoney mentioned they
     held a well-attended meeting with full board participation and several community
     members present. Brent Potter was recognized for his leadership. Residents
     requested that the park survey be made available via a direct clickable link rather
     than only a QR code, and applications for committee participation remain open,
     with continued interest in improving transparency and public engagement
     opportunities.

     Daniele Benigni provided an update on the park project, noting that it involves three
     communities: White City, Copperton, and Magna and will require the development
     of formal bylaws. The committee is intended to work alongside the MSD and
     consultants, with a structure that includes city representatives and legal oversight.
     He emphasized the need to meet with the city attorney before finalizing bylaws and
     application materials and noted that internal guidelines for committee operations
     still need to be incorporated. Council will need to add bylaw adoption to a future
     agenda.

     Council discussed the structure of public involvement. Daniele explained that the
     current phase is focused on organizing the committee and gathering data to
     support consultant work, including park condition assessments already conducted
     through spring site visits. Broader public engagement is expected later in the
     process through an open house and a published project roadmap to ensure
     transparency.

     Council Member Neil Mahoney discussed ongoing confusion between the City
     Council and Community Council. Staff noted plans to add clarifying information and
     links on both the City and Community Council websites to better explain their roles.
     The possibility of renaming the White City Community Council was also raised to
     reduce public confusion.

7. CITY ADMINISTRAT0R REPORT
   Rori Andreason had nothing to report.


                   White City Council Meeting Minutes – Page 8
8. ATTORNEY REPORT
   Cameron Platt had nothing to report.

9. ADJOURN

 MOTION:       Council Member Tyler Huish MOVED to adjourn. The motion was
              SECONDED by Council Member Greg Shelton. Mayor Perry called for the
              question, there being non, he called for a roll call vote.

                     Mayor Allan Perry           Aye
                     Council Member Neil Mahoney Aye
                     Council Member Greg Shelton Aye
                     Council Member Tyler Huish Aye
                     Council Member Linda Price Aye

              The motion passed unanimously.


 Mayor Perry declared the meeting adjourned at 7:50 p.m.



 Rori L. Andreason, City Administrator/ Recorder

 Approved this 4th day of June 2026.




                    White City Council Meeting Minutes – Page 9
                                          WHITE CITY
     DATE: JUNE 4, 2026                                   RESOLUTION NO. 2026-06-02
   A RESOLUTION ADOPTING RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE FOR CITY
                        COUNCIL MEETINGS
WHEREAS, Utah Code §10-3-606 directs the legislative body of a municipality to adopt rules of
order and procedure for the conduct of its meetings; and

WHEREAS, the White City Council (“Council”) finds it necessary and appropriate to establish
clear rules governing agendas, voting, public participation, meeting conduct, and other procedural
matters to promote orderly, efficient, and transparent public meetings; and

WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed the Rules of Order and Procedure, including provisions for
consent agendas, public comment, ethics, and meeting administration; and

WHEREAS, the Council intends that all meetings be conducted in compliance with the Utah Open
and Public Meetings Act, including notice, agendas, public access, and minutes requirements; and

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the White City, Utah City Council as follows:

Section 1. Pursuant to Utah Code § 10-3-606, the following Rules of Order and Procedure (the
Rules) are adopted to govern meetings of the City Council. as stated in Attachment A.

Section 2. Public Availability

The City Administrator is directed to publish these Rules with the Council’s policies, maintain
them for public inspection, and post them on the City’s website. These Rules shall be available to
the public at Council meetings and on the City’s official website.

Section 3. Effective Date. This Resolution shall take effect upon passage or as otherwise required
by law.

ADOPTED AND APPROVED at a duly called meeting of the White City, Utah City Council on
this 4th day of June 2026.

                                 ***Signatures on Following Page***
WHITE CITY COUNCIL

By: _______________________________
       Allan Perry, Mayor


ATTEST:

_________________________________
Rori L. Andreason, City Administrator/Recorder


Voting:
Mayor Perry voting                 ___
Council Member Mahoney voting      ___
Council Member Huish voting        ___
Council Member Shelton voting      ___
Council Member Price voting        ___
                                       ATTACHMENT A

     RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE FOR CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS

RULE 1 AGENDA
1.1 A written agenda, published in advance, shall guide meetings. Matters not on the agenda may
    be discussed, but no final action shall be taken on matters not on the agenda.
1.2 Items may be placed on the agenda by the Mayor or any two Council Members. Agenda items
    should be submitted to the City Administrator no later than 7 days before the scheduled
    meeting.
1.3 Ordinances and resolutions must be in writing before a vote is taken. A resolution or ordinance
    must be published in writing before a vote is taken on it.
1.4 A consent agenda may include routine, non-controversial items to be approved by a single
    motion. Any Council Member may, without a second, request removal of an item from the
    consent agenda for separate consideration; removed items shall be taken up in the regular order
    or at a time set by the Chair. No public hearing items shall appear on the consent agenda.

RULE 2 ORDER AND PROCEDURE; PARLIAMENTARY AUTHORITY
2.1 The Mayor chairs meetings; in the Mayor’s absence, the Mayor Pro Tempore presides.
    Meetings are conducted under a simplified Robert’s Rules for small bodies, as supplemented
    by these Rules. If a conflict arises, these Rules control over parliamentary authority, and Utah
    law controls over all.
2.2 Agenda items are generally considered in the order listed but may be reordered with consent
    of the Council.
2.3 Work meetings may be conducted more informally while maintaining decorum. At work
    meetings Council Members may freely participate as long as proper decorum is maintained.

RULE 3 MEETING TYPES; OPEN AND PUBLIC MEETINGS ACT
3.1 Regular, special, emergency, and workshop meetings may be held as noticed in accordance with the
    Open and Public Meetings Act.
3.2 All meetings of the Council shall be held in compliance with Title 52, Chapter 4, Utah Open and
    Public Meetings Act.
3.3 Electronic meetings are permitted as authorized by separate resolutions and applicable law.
    Electronic meetings are permitted and addressed in a separate resolution.

RULE 4 QUORUM
4.1 A quorum consists of three Council Members in attendance, which may include the Mayor. If
a quorum is lost, only recess, continuation, or adjournment may occur.
RULE 5 MAYOR PRO TEMPORE
5.1 The Council shall elect one of its members as Mayor Pro Tempore at least annually, and as
needed, to preside when the Mayor is absent or unable to preside, with full presiding authority
during that time.

RULE 6 VOTING
6.1 The minimum number of votes required to pass any action is three, even if there are absences
    or vacancies; any action having fewer than three favorable votes is defeated and invalid.
6.2 A roll call vote shall be taken and recorded for all resolutions, ordinances, or any actions that
    would create a liability against the City; otherwise the Council may vote as a group and the
    vote shall be recorded.
6.3 The Mayor votes as a Council Member and has no veto power.

RULE 7 RECONSIDERATION
7.1 No action may be reconsidered or rescinded at a special meeting unless the number of Council
Members present equals the number present at the meeting when the action was approved.

RULE 8 MINUTES AND RECORDS
8.1 A written draft of meeting minutes shall be made available to Council Members and the public
    within 30 days after the meeting and designated as a draft until approved.
8.2 Approved minutes shall be posted on the Utah Public Notice Website within three business
    days after approval.
8.3 Meeting Recordings shall be posted on the Utah Public Notice Website within three business
    days after the meeting.

RULE 9 RULE 9. AVAILABILITY OF RULES
9.1 These Rules shall be available to the public at Council meetings and posted on the City’s
official website.

RULE 10 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION; DECORUM
10.1 Public Comment.
   a. Public comment may be provided on agenda items at the time designated by the Mayor;
      public comment on non-agenda items may be permitted during a general public comment
      period.
   b. Individual comments may be limited to a reasonable time, generally three minutes per
      speaker, unless modified by the Mayor or majority vote; the Council may establish an
      overall time limit.
   c. Public comment closes upon commencement of Council deliberation unless reopened by
      majority vote.
   d. The City may allow public comments to be submitted by electronic or recorded means
      when designated by the City Administrator, and such comments shall be summarized or
      read into the record.
       When extraordinary volume of public input, duplicate comments, or time constraints
       prohibit reading all comments into the record, the remaining written comments will be
       officially accepted and incorporated into the permanent meeting minutes as if read aloud.
   e. The Chair shall ensure public comment is civil and orderly, allowing free expression within
      time and manner limits.
10.2 Decorum.
   a. Council Members shall treat each other and the public with respect and act in a civil and
      courteous manner.
   b. Public remarks must not be unduly repetitive, defamatory, unlawfully threatening,
      discriminatory, or otherwise impede the orderly conduct of the meeting.
   c. At the discretion of the Mayor or upon a majority vote of the Council, any disorderly person
      may be asked to leave the meeting room.

RULE 11 RULE 11. ETHICS
11.1 The Mayor and Council Members must comply with the Municipal Officers’ and Employees’
Ethics Act.

RULE 12 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
12.1 Council Members shall disclose any conflict of interest as required by Utah statute, state the
disclosure on the record prior to discussion or voting, and abstain as required by law.

RULE 13 PUBLIC HEARINGS
13.1 Unless otherwise required by law, public hearings shall generally proceed in the following
order: staff presentation; applicant presentation (if applicable); public comment; close public
hearing; Council deliberation and action; the Council may continue or reopen a hearing as
permitted by law.

RULE 14 RULE 14. COMMITTEES
14.1 The Council may establish committees, define purpose, membership, duration, and
parameters; committees may include up to two Council Members; no official action shall be taken
other than adoption of non-binding recommendations; committees shall not expend or be
supported by tax revenue unless the committee follows the Open and Public Meetings Act.
14.2 Committees that meet the definition of a “public body” under the Open and Public Meetings
Act shall comply with the Act; otherwise, they are not required to comply.

RULE 15 ORDER OF BUSINESS; ADJOURNMENT
15.1 Standard Sequence: Call to Order; Determine Quorum, Public Hearings, Staff Reports ,
Discussion Items, Action Items, Council Reports.
15.3 Meetings shall not adjourn until a motion to adjourn is approved by a majority of the Council
attending the meeting.

RULE 16 AMENDMENT OF RULES
16.1 These Rules may be amended by resolution of the Council at a duly noticed public meeting.
                                      WHITE CITY, UTAH
  DATE: JUNE 4, 2026                                            ORDINANCE NO. 2026-O-01

          AN ORDINANCE ENACTING TITLE 11, CHAPTER 34 “BICYCLES,
            MICROMOBILITY DEVICES, E-BIKES, AND E-SCOOTERS”

WHEREAS, the White City Council (“Council”) finds that regulating bicycles, electronic bicycles
(e-bikes), electric scooters (e-scooters), and other micromobility devices promotes public safety,
health, and welfare on streets, sidewalks, parks, public trails, and other public grounds while
facilitating sustainable mobility and active transportation; and

WHEREAS, this ordinance complies with and supplements Utah state law, including Utah Code
§§ 41-6a-102, 41-6a-1115.5, and amendments enacted by HB 381 (effective May 6, 2026, with
additional provisions effective May 5, 2027), as well as regulations governing motor assisted
scooters and electric personal assistive mobility devices; and

WHEREAS, local authorities are authorized under Utah Code § 41-6a-1115.5(3) to adopt
additional rules or restrictions on e-bikes (by class) and other micromobility devices on sidewalks,
paths, or trails; and

WHEREAS, the Council desires to establish clear, consistent, and enforceable rules for the safe
operation of bicycles, e-bikes, e-scooters, and micromobility devices, while providing appropriate
exemptions and protections for electric personal assistive mobility devices used by individuals
with disabilities, and creating a framework for any future shared mobility programs; and

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the White City Council as follows:
Section 1. Title 11 of the White City Municipal Code is hereby amended by enacting Chapter 34
“Bicycles, Micromobility Devices, E-Bikes, and E-Scooters” as stated in Attachment A.
Section 2. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this ordinance is
held to be unconstitutional or invalid for any reason, such decision shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portions of this ordinance or the application thereof to other persons and
circumstances.
Section 3. Effective Date. This ordinance shall take effect upon publication or as otherwise
required by law.

ADOPTED AND APPROVED at a duly called meeting on this 4th day of June 2026.

                               ***Signatures on Following Page***
WHITE CITY COUNCIL

By: _______________________________
       Allan Perry, Mayor


ATTEST:

_________________________________
Rori L. Andreason, City Administrator/Recorder


Voting:
Mayor Perry voting                 ___
Council Member Mahoney voting      ___
Council Member Huish voting        ___
Council Member Shelton voting      ___
Council Member Price voting        ___
                                    ATTACHMENT A
                           TITLE 11 – VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
      CHAPTER 34 –MICROMOBILITY DEVICES, E-BIKES, AND E-SCOOTERS

11.34.10 Definitions
As used in this chapter:

   A. “Active Transportation” means personal transportation in an active way where an
      individual self-propels or is electronically-assisted.

   B. “Bicycle” means every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
      ride, having two (2) tandem wheels either of which is over twelve inches (12") in diameter,
      or as otherwise defined in Utah Code § 41-6a-102.

   C. “Bike Corral” means a bicycle and micromobility device parking facility that can
      accommodate a large group of devices, typically installed on-street in lieu of a single
      vehicle parking stall.

   D. “Bike Lane” means a portion of a roadway designated for preferential or exclusive use by
      bicycles, e-bikes, or e-scooters that is distinguished from that portion of the roadway to be
      used by motor vehicles by a painted stripe, pavement markings, flexible post delineators,
      or signage.

   E. “Bike Rack” means a secure object to which bicycles and micromobility devices can be
      attached for orderly parking and securing purposes.

   F. “City” means White City, Utah.

   G. “Concessionaire” or “Operator” means a person or business with whom the City has
      contracted or permitted to provide shared mobility device services within the City.

   H. “Dismount Zone” means a designated area posted as prohibited for micromobility devices
      to operate. Persons are required to dismount from their device and walk through the area.

   I. “Electric Power-Assisted Bicycle” or “E-bike” means a vehicle having two (2) tandem
      wheels, or two (2) parallel wheels and one (1) forward wheel, any two of which are not
      less than twelve (12) inches in diameter, that is designed to be operated by human power
      with the assistance of an electric motor that has a power output of not more than seven
      hundred fifty (750) watts and that: (i) is incapable of propelling the vehicle at a speed of
      more than twenty (20) miles per hour on motor power alone; and (ii) disengages or ceases
      to function when the vehicle’s brakes are applied. An e-bike is not a motor vehicle for
      purposes of this Chapter. E-bikes are classified as follows consistent with Utah Code § 41-
      6a-102:

           1. Class 1: pedal-assist only, ceases to provide assistance when the bicycle reaches 20
              mph.
       2. Class 2: may be used exclusively to propel the bicycle, and is not capable of
          providing assistance when the bicycle reaches 20 mph.

       3. Class 3: pedal-assist only, ceases to provide assistance when the bicycle reaches 28
          mph, and equipped with a speedometer.

       4. Programmable electric assisted bicycle: capable of being programmed by the user
          to function as Class 1, 2, or 3.

J. “Electric Power-Assisted Scooter” or “E-scooter” or “Motor Assisted Scooter” means
   a self-propelled device with at least two wheels in contact with the ground, a braking
   system capable of stopping the unit under typical operating conditions, an electric motor
   (typically not exceeding 750 watts depending on applicable state definition), handlebars
   and a deck or seat design for a person to stand, sit, or straddle while operating, designed to
   be propelled by human power alone or with electric assist, and capable of a maximum
   speed of twenty (20) miles per hour on a paved level surface. An e-scooter is not a motor
   vehicle for purposes of this Chapter. This definition does not include bicycles, e-bikes,
   motorcycles, mopeds, motor driven cycles, or electric personal assistive mobility devices.

K. “Electric Personal Assistive Mobility Device” or “EPAMD” or “Powered
   Wheelchair” means a self-balancing, two non-tandem wheeled device or powered
   wheelchair designed to transport only one person with a mobility disability, powered by an
   electric propulsion system, with a maximum speed of less than twenty (20) miles per hour.
   EPAMDs and powered wheelchairs used by individuals with mobility disabilities are
   exempt from the operational restrictions of this chapter applicable to micromobility devices
   and shall be permitted on sidewalks, shared-use paths, and other public ways in accordance
   with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and Utah law. Nothing in this chapter
   shall be construed to prohibit or unduly restrict their use.

L. “Micromobility Device” means a wide range of small, lightweight vehicles operating at
   speeds typically below twenty (20) miles per hour and driven by users personally.
   Micromobility devices include, but are not limited to, bicycles, scooters, e-bikes, e-
   scooters, electric skateboards, hoverboards, segways, one-wheels, and similar personal
   transportation devices, but do not include gas-powered scooters, motorcycles, mopeds, or
   other gas-powered devices, or EPAMDs/powered wheelchairs as defined above.

M. “Shared Mobility Device” means a bicycle, e-bike, e-scooter, or similar micromobility
   device made available to the public for rent or hire through a shared mobility device
   program. This definition does not include motorcycles, mopeds, or any power-driven
   device used by individuals with mobility disabilities for the purpose of locomotion.

N. “Shared Mobility Device Program” means the offering of either docked or dockless
   shared mobility devices for rent or hire to the public. The person or entity responsible for
   the operation, oversight, and management of such a program is the “operator” or
   “concessionaire.”

O. “Shared-Use Path” or “Trail” means a concrete, asphalt, or hardened surface corridor
   that accommodates one or two-way traffic and is used for both public recreational purposes
       and active transportation, or a natural surface trail primarily used for walking, hiking,
       biking, horseback riding or similar recreational purposes.

   P. “Sidewalk” means a paved or surfaced area, paralleling a street, that is primarily used as
      a public pedestrian right-of-way.

   Q. “Operator” means any person operating a bicycle, e-bike, e-scooter, or micromobility
      device.

11.34.20 Duties of Parents and Guardians
It is unlawful for the parents or guardian of any child or the guardian of any ward to authorize or
knowingly permit any child or ward to ride, operate, possess, or use a bicycle or micromobility
device in violation of the provisions of this chapter.

11.34.30 General Operation – Traffic Laws Apply

   A. The provisions of this chapter applicable to bicycles and micromobility devices shall apply
      whenever a bicycle or micromobility device is operated upon any street, sidewalk, trail, or
      public property in the City, subject to exceptions stated herein or unless otherwise posted.

   B. Every person operating a bicycle or micromobility device upon a roadway, public parking
      lot, bike lane, or other public vehicular right-of-way in the City shall be granted the same
      rights and shall be subject to the same responsibilities applicable to a motor vehicle
      operator by the laws of the State of Utah and City ordinances, except where provisions by
      their nature can have no application to micromobility devices, or where this Chapter directs
      otherwise. Micromobility devices operated on sidewalks or trails have the same
      responsibilities as a pedestrian, except as otherwise provided.

   C. Any peace officer operating a micromobility device in the course and scope of official
      duties is exempt from certain requirements if responding to an emergency call, engaged in
      rescue operations, or in immediate pursuit of a violator of the law. This does not relieve
      the officer from the duty to operate with due regard for the safety of all persons.

11.34.40 Age Restrictions, Helmets, and sobriety

   A. Riders under twenty-one (21) years of age must wear a properly fitted CPSC-approved
      helmet when operating an e-bike or e-scooter on any public road, path, or trail.

   B. No person under eight (8) years of age may operate an e-bike or e-scooter with the motor
      engaged on any public property, highway, path, sidewalk, or trail.

   C. Persons under fourteen (14) years of age may not operate an e-bike or e-scooter with the
      motor engaged on any public property without direct supervision of a parent or guardian
      (supervision and certificate rules per state law effective 2027).

   D. No person under sixteen (16) years of age may operate a Class 3 e-bike.
   E. E-scooter riders shall be at least eighteen (18) years of age. An owner or operator of a
      shared e-scooter shall not authorize or knowingly permit a person under eighteen (18) to
      operate it.

   F. No person shall operate a bicycle, e-bike, e-scooter, or micromobility device while under
      the influence of alcohol or any drug to a degree that renders the operator incapable of safely
      operating a motor vehicle (Utah Code § 41-6a-502 and § 41-6a-1115.5).

11.34.50 Required Equipment and Safe Operation

   A. All micromobility devices must be in safe operating condition with working brakes that
      allow the device to stop when engaged.

   B. Every micromobility device when in use at nighttime (between one hour after sunset and
      one hour before sunrise) shall be equipped with a front lamp emitting a white light visible
      from at least five hundred (500) feet to the front, and a red reflector or rear red lamp visible
      from fifty (50) to three hundred (300) feet to the rear when in front of lawful upper beams
      of headlamps on a motor vehicle.

   C. All e-scooters and e-bikes shall be equipped with a working bell, horn, or other sound
      mechanism (but not a siren or whistle).

   D. No micromobility device shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the number
      for which it is designed and equipped.

   E. Every person operating a micromobility device shall maintain control, keep at least one (1)
      hand on the handlebar at all times, and shall not carry anything that prevents full control or
      obstructs vision.

   F. While operating an e-scooter or e-bike, riders shall not use a handheld wireless
      communication device in a manner that prevents use of both hands for control.

   G. Riders must yield the right-of-way to pedestrians at all times and yield to other trail users
      as appropriate. When approaching pedestrians from behind on a shared path or trail, riders
      shall reduce speed and give audible warning prior to cautiously overtaking and passing.

11.34.60 Speed
No person shall operate a bicycle or micromobility device at a speed greater than is reasonable
and prudent under the conditions then existing, or on a street at a speed greater than the posted
automobile speed limit, or on a trail at a speed greater than any posted micromobility device
speed limit, nor in a negligent manner or at a speed on sidewalks or paths as to impose danger to
pedestrian traffic. Maximum speed on shared-use paths is ten to twenty (10–20) mph depending
on conditions and signage.

11.34.70 Obedience to Traffic Control Devices and Roadway Rules

   A. Operators shall obey all official traffic signals, signs, and control devices applicable to
      vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   B. No person shall ride a micromobility device on a roadway against the flow of motorized
      vehicular traffic, except where permitted by official signs or markings.

   C. Every person riding upon a two-way roadway is entitled to use the lane appropriate for the
      intended destination, including the right-most lane. Riders may use the full lane if it is not
      wide enough for a car and micromobility device to safely share. On one-way roadways,
      operation in any existing lane is permitted.

   D. The rider of a micromobility device traveling at a rate of speed that delays following
      vehicles shall, when it is unlawful or unsafe for the following vehicle to pass, move as far
      to the right as practicable (or left in left lane of one-way), except when within fifty (50)
      feet of an intersection.

   E. Where a bike lane is present, the rider shall use that lane and shall not use the roadway
      except when the lane is of insufficient width, or due to a safety threat.

11.34.80 Emerging from Alley, Driveway, or Building
The operator emerging from an alley, driveway, or building shall, upon approaching a sidewalk
or sidewalk area extending across any alleyway, yield the right of way to all pedestrians
approaching on the sidewalk, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right of way to all
vehicles approaching on the roadway.

11.34.90 Clinging to Vehicles; Group Riding; Carrying Articles

   A. No person riding upon any bicycle or micromobility device shall attach the same or
      themselves to any vehicle upon a roadway.

   B. Persons operating bicycles or micromobility devices upon a roadway shall not ride more
      than two (2) abreast except upon bike paths of twelve feet (12') or more. When a vehicle
      approaches from behind in the same lane, riders shall return to single file.

   C. No person operating a bicycle or micromobility device shall carry any packages, bundles,
      or articles which prevent the operator from keeping at least one hand on the handlebar and
      maintaining safe control at all times.

11.34.100 Permitted and Prohibited Uses – Sidewalks, Trails, Parks, and Public Grounds

   A. Public Roads/Streets: Bicycles, e-bikes, and e-scooters are permitted subject to all
      applicable traffic laws, state age/helmet requirements, equipment rules, and safe operation.

   B. Sidewalks: Operation of e-bikes and e-scooters is prohibited on all sidewalks within White
      City to protect pedestrian safety, except that devices may be walked (dismounted) on
      sidewalks. Traditional bicycles may be operated on sidewalks only at a safe walking speed
      yielding to pedestrians, unless otherwise posted. When a sidewalk is not present and a
      pedestrian is in the bike lane, the micromobility rider shall yield to the pedestrian.

   C. Public Trails, Bikeways, and Shared-Use Paths: Bicycles, Class 1 and Class 2 e-bikes,
      and e-scooters are permitted only on trails and paths designated for bicycle or
      micromobility use, unless specifically prohibited by City signage under direction of the
      Parks and Recreation Director or equivalent. Class 3 e-bikes may be restricted or prohibited
      on specific soft-surface, narrow, or high-pedestrian trails if posted. Riders must yield to
      pedestrians and non-motorized users, operate at a safe speed, and follow all posted rules.
      Micromobility devices shall follow shared-use pathway rules and speed maximums of
      bicycles unless otherwise posted.

   D. Parks and Public Grounds: Bicycles, e-bikes, and e-scooters are permitted only on
      designated paved or improved trails/paths within parks and public grounds. Operation is
      prohibited on grass, landscaped areas, playgrounds, or off-trail surfaces to protect park
      resources and public safety. Riders must stay on designated routes, yield to pedestrians,
      and operate responsibly. No operation is allowed in areas posted as prohibited or in
      dismount zones.

   E. Private Property: Operation on private property is prohibited without the permission of
      the owner of the property.

11.34.110 Parking and Abandonment

   A. No person shall park a bicycle or micromobility device upon any street outside of
      designated parking areas or in such a manner as to obstruct vehicular travel. No person
      shall park upon a sidewalk in such a manner as to cause obstruction to pedestrian or
      wheelchair traffic.

   B. Parking on the grass at any City park is prohibited. No person shall park on landscaping
      areas in a manner that causes damage to trees, shrubs, or plantings, or on private property
      without permission.

   C. Where bicycle racks, corrals, or designated docking stations are available, they shall be
      used for orderly parking.

   D. Any shared mobility device that is not in use shall be secured to a permitted dock, rack, or
      corral or otherwise placed upright on a hard surface in a location that does not impede
      pedestrian or vehicular traffic, access to buildings, bus stops, ADA ramps, or transit
      platforms. Prohibited parking locations include, but are not limited to: multi-use paths,
      vehicle travel lanes, bikeways, vehicle parking spaces, within fifteen (15) feet of building
      access/egress or traffic signal poles, within thirty (30) feet of ADA ramps, within landscape
      beds, or any other zone the City has determined and posted parking is prohibited.

   E. Abandoned or improperly parked shared mobility devices that impede traffic, egress, or
      access may be relocated or impounded by the City or its designee at the owner’s or
      operator’s expense. The City may assess reasonable relocation, storage, and administrative
      fees.

11.34.120 Shared Mobility Device Programs (Optional)

   A. No person shall operate a shared mobility device program or permit shared mobility
      devices owned or controlled by such person to be in service for hire upon the streets,
      sidewalks, trails, or public grounds of the City unless such person is authorized to do so
      under a permit, license, or agreement obtained from the City. The City Council may by
      resolution or agreement establish fees, conditions, insurance requirements, fleet size limits,
      geo-fencing for sensitive areas (e.g., schools, parks, downtown core), rebalancing/response
      times (typically within two to four hours for safety complaints or abandoned devices), data
      sharing, and other reasonable regulations to protect public safety, prevent clutter, and
      ensure equitable access.

   B. Any permitted shared mobility program shall: (1) maintain a local fleet manager or 24/7
      contact available to respond to City and public complaints; (2) provide a 24-hour customer
      service phone number and email; (3) regularly inspect, clean, and repair all devices; (4)
      make unsafe or reported devices unavailable and remove from rights-of-way promptly; (5)
      maintain required insurance naming the City as additional insured (minimum commercial
      general liability $1,000,000 per occurrence / $5,000,000 aggregate or as otherwise required
      by the permit); (6) indemnify the City as required by the permit agreement; and (7) comply
      with all applicable federal, state, and local data privacy laws.

   C. The City may deny, suspend, or revoke any permit for failure to comply with permit
      conditions, operating in a manner that endangers public health or safety, or other good
      cause. The City does not assume liability for issuing or denying permits or for the operation
      of any shared program.

11.34.130 Bicycle and E-Bike Registration (Optional See 11.32)

   A. It is recommended, but not mandatory, that all residents register their bicycle or e-bike with
      the Unified Police Department or designated agent. Registration is free of charge. The
      Police Department may issue a decal sticker bearing a license number to be firmly attached
      to the frame. Valid proof of ownership is required. The Police Department will maintain a
      database to assist in recovery of stolen bicycles and e-bikes.

   B. Bicycle dealers in the City are encouraged to assist purchasers with registration at the time
      of sale.

11.34.140 Enforcement and Penalties

   A. Violations of this chapter are criminal infractions or civil code violations enforceable by
      citation or notice of violation. Fine amounts shall be established by the City Council in its
      consolidated fee schedule.

   B. Non-compliant, unsafe, or abandoned bicycles, e-bikes, e-scooters, or micromobility
      devices may be impounded or relocated by the City or its agents at the owner’s or operator’s
      expense. The owner shall be assessed reasonable relocation, storage, and administrative
      fees as established by resolution.

   C. This chapter supplements (and does not replace) applicable state law. Violations of state
      law are also enforceable by appropriate authorities.

11.34.150 Gas-Powered Bicycles, Scooters, and Similar Devices
A. For purposes of this section, “gas-powered device” means any bicycle, scooter, skateboard,
   or similar device propelled in whole or in part by a gasoline, diesel, or other internal
   combustion engine, regardless of whether it also has pedals or electric assist. This
   definition does not include mopeds, motor-driven cycles, or motorcycles as defined in Utah
   Code § 41-6a-102 when such devices are properly registered and operated in compliance
   with state law.

B. Gas-powered devices are prohibited on all sidewalks, shared-use paths, trails, bike lanes,
   parks, and other public grounds within the City except where expressly authorized by
   posted signage or City permit. Operators must dismount and walk gas-powered devices
   through any dismount zone or prohibited area.

C. When operated on public roadways where permitted by state law, gas-powered devices
   shall comply with all applicable provisions of Utah Code Title 41 (Motor Vehicles) and
   City traffic ordinances, including any registration, licensing, equipment, and insurance
   requirements.

D. Any gas-powered device operated or parked in violation of this chapter may be impounded
   or removed by the City or its agents at the owner’s expense. The owner shall be responsible
   for all applicable relocation, storage, and administrative fees established by resolution.

E. This section is intended to supplement, not replace, state motor vehicle laws. Nothing in
   this chapter authorizes the operation of any device that is illegal under state law.
                                         WHITE CITY

  DATE: JUNE 4, 2026                                           RESOLUTION No. 2026-06-03

 RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR TO EXECUTE THE UDOT MASTER
              LANDSCAPE MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT.

WHEREAS, White City (“City”) recognizes the importance of decorative landscaping
improvements within its jurisdiction, including in Utah Department of Transportation rights-of-
way, to promote community beautification and enhance resident quality of life;

WHEREAS, the City Council (“Council”) finds that it is in the public interest for the City to enter
into the Utah Department of Transportation Master Landscape Maintenance Agreement;

WHEREAS, Utah Code Annotated §§ 72-3-109 and 72-7-102 and Utah Administrative Code
R918-6-4 authorize the City to maintain landscaping improvements in UDOT rights-of-way upon
proper agreement with UDOT;

WHEREAS, the Master Landscape Maintenance Agreement establishes uniform requirements for
maintenance, safety, and remedies that enable the City to proceed with approved landscaping
projects in a compliant and beneficial manner;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the White City, Utah City Council that:

SECTION I: The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to execute the Utah Department of
Transportation Master Landscape Maintenance Agreement on behalf of the City, substantially in
the form presented to the Council in Attachment A to this Resolution, and to take all necessary
actions to implement its terms.

SECTION II: The City Administrator is directed to transmit an executed copy of the Agreement
to the Utah Department of Transportation and to retain the original in the official City records.

SECTION III: Effective Date. This resolution shall take effect upon passage and publication.

PASSED AND ADOPTED at a duly called meeting on this 4th day of June 2026.

                              ***Signatures on Following Page***




                                                                                                         1
                                                                             UDOT MLMA FORM DATE 3 MAR 2026
WHITE CITY COUNCIL

By: _______________________________
       Allan Perry, Mayor


ATTEST:

_________________________________
Rori L. Andreason, City Administrator/Recorder


Voting:
Mayor Perry voting                 ___
Council Member Mahoney voting      ___
Council Member Huish voting        ___
Council Member Shelton voting      ___
Council Member Price voting        ___




                                                                             2
                                                 UDOT MLMA FORM DATE 3 MAR 2026
                                         ATTACHMENT A

                                                                                       State of Utah
                                                                       Department of Transportation


                          MASTER LANDSCAPE MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT

THIS MASTER LANDSCAPE MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT (“Agreement”) is made and entered to be
effective as of __________________ (the “Effective Date”), by and between the UTAH DEPARTMENT OF
TRANSPORTATION, an agency of the State of Utah (“UDOT”) and WHITE CITY, a part of the Greater Salt
Lake Municipal Service District, Utah municipal corporation (the “Local Government”).

                                                RECITALS

   A. When UDOT places landscaping vegetation for its own work, UDOT’s baseline involves placing
      seed with natural, self-sustaining grass and shrub species that do not require any irrigation. UDOT
      applies this baseline under UDOT manuals and specifications.

   B. Local jurisdictions are responsible for decorative landscaping in the UDOT right-of-way when
      required by Utah Administrative Code R918-6-4 (“Section R918-6-4”) or other applicable law, or
      when a local jurisdiction has assumed landscape responsibilities under a UDOT contract or permit,
      or when a local jurisdiction has granted a permission or issued a permit to a third party that allows
      an installation by the third party (which requires compliance with Utah Code §§ 72-3-109 and 72-
      7-102), (collectively a “Landscape Improvement”). These laws, contracts, and permits may
      impose requirements for more than just vegetation in the UDOT right-of-way.

   C. UDOT first must authorize the installation of a Landscape Improvement. UDOT does this through
      a UDOT agreement (such as a Betterment Agreement or Cooperative Agreement), or pursuant to
      a UDOT permit, or by giving an approval so a local jurisdiction can grant permission to, or issue a
      permit to, a third party.

   D. When UDOT authorizes the installation of a Landscape Improvement, UDOT also requires a local
      jurisdiction to enter this Agreement. This is a master agreement that applies to all Landscape
      Improvement sites that involve vegetation within the local jurisdiction (except as stated herein).
      The purpose of this Agreement is to implement uniform requirements that: (i) address long-term
      maintenance responsibilities and requirements for Landscape Improvements that involve
      vegetation; and (ii) provide for their ongoing care and upkeep.

                                              AGREEMENT

NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the forgoing recitals, which by this reference are incorporated into
this Agreement, and the following terms and conditions, the parties agree as follows:

   1. Agreement Applicability. This Agreement applies to each Landscape Improvement (as defined in
      Recital B) within the Local Government’s jurisdiction once each installation is complete, and it
      takes priority over any conflicting terms in other agreements or permits, except as follows:


                                                                                                               3
                                                                                   UDOT MLMA FORM DATE 3 MAR 2026
        a. UDOT-Owned Improvements. UDOT-owned landscaping is not subject to this Agreement.
        b. Conflicting Prior Authorizations. If a Landscape Improvement existed in the Local
           Government’s jurisdiction before the Effective Date of this Agreement, and its long-term
           care is subject to terms stated in a different UDOT agreement, permit or other
           authorization, then the different UDOT agreement, permit or other authorization governs
           that site.

2. Landscape Improvement Requirements. The Local Government shall comply with the following
   requirements and shall also require the Local Government’s permittees to comply with the
   following requirements. Compliance is a condition of UDOT’s consent to a Landscape
   Improvement.
        a. Effect of Consent. The owner of a Landscape Improvement, which may be either the Local
           Government or a Local Government permittee (an “Improvement Owner”), only owns
           the Landscape Improvement. UDOT’s consent only authorizes the Improvement Owner
           to make a non-exclusive use of the surface of a UDOT right-of-way in the manner stated
           in the document that authorized installation for the Landscape Improvement. UDOT’s
           property ownership interests are not affected in any manner by a Landscape
           Improvement.
        b. Standard of Care. The Local Government or other Improvement Owner must provide all
           reasonable and routine care that may be required to maintain the Landscape
           Improvement, for the duration of its installation, substantially in the condition that UDOT
           consented to. The reasonable and routine care that is necessary to meet this standard
           requires complying with all of the requirements stated in Section R918-6-4. That may
           include, but is not limited to, actions such as the following: maintaining irrigation systems,
           inspecting, removing trash and dead plant materials, replenishing approved installations,
           controlling weeds and pests, repairing damage, remedying hazardous conditions,
           complying with applicable local codes, and other measures.
        c. Safety. Landscape Improvements must be maintained in a manner that is consistent with
           the safe and efficient use of the UDOT roadway. Among other things, the Local
           Government or other Improvement Owner must prevent elements from blocking signs or
           intruding onto paved surfaces within the UDOT right-of-way. Any intrusions,
           impairments, or other safety and efficiency concerns must be promptly remedied.
        d. Protection of UDOT Property. The Local Government or other Improvement Owner shall
           use reasonable care to protect UDOT’s property from damage. Among other things,
           maintenance work shall not damage UDOT’s paved surfaces, signs, or other roadway
           appurtenances, and no substances that are regulated as hazardous (as such term is
           defined by applicable law) shall be placed on UDOT’s property. The Local Government or
           other Improvement Owner shall also use reasonable care to protect improvements
           owned by others that are present at the site of the Landscape Improvement.
        e. Roadway Access. If any maintenance work requires traffic control or lane closures, that
           access requires obtaining an encroachment permit from UDOT. All persons who work in
           a UDOT right-of-way must wear approved DOT Personal Protective Equipment and Safety
           Clothing (see UDOT Policy 06E-02, or its successor, on UDOT’s website). Volunteers
           working in a UDOT right-of-way must be at least 16 years old, and if they are between the
           ages of 16 and 18, they must have adult supervision at all times. Contact a UDOT permit
           official to ensure compliance with safety requirements.
        f. Substantial Changes. UDOT must issue a new, written authorization before a Local
           Government or other Improvement Owner can make substantial changes to what UDOT

                                                                                                             4
                                                                                 UDOT MLMA FORM DATE 3 MAR 2026
           approved for a Landscape Improvement. If so authorized, once the changes have been
           installed, this Agreement continues to apply.
        g. Responsibility and Enforcement. If the Local Government issues a permit that allows a
           permittee to install a Landscape Improvement, the Local Government (under Sections 72-
           3-109, 72-7-102, and R918-6-4) and the permittee (under the permit) are both
           responsible for that Landscape Improvement under applicable law and this Agreement.
           If the Local Government makes the permittee primarily responsible for the Landscape
           Improvement, the Local Government will take reasonable enforcement actions to require
           Local Government permittees to comply with the requirements of this Agreement.
           Reasonable actions include, but are not limited to, the following: the Local Government
           will make the requirements of this Agreement applicable to its permittees (as stated
           below); and reasonable enforcement actions may include, but are not required to include,
           taking legal action against a permittee.

3. Remedies. If a Landscape Improvement is not maintained as required by Section 2, UDOT and the
   Local Government shall have remedies as follows:
       a. UDOT Remedies. UDOT has all remedies available by law, and the following remedies are
           not exclusive:
                 i.  UDOT shall not bear any cost for, or have any obligation to maintain, a
                     Landscape Improvement that the Local Government is responsible for (whether
                     it responsible by law or pursuant to a UDOT agreement, permit or other
                     approval). The parties acknowledge that this Agreement does not change
                     applicable law, which includes, but is not limited to, Utah Code §§ 72-3-109 and
                     72-7-102, and Section R918-6-4.
                ii.  UDOT is the owner of the right-of-way, and UDOT can enter a Landscape
                     Improvement at any time for any reason.
               iii.  UDOT has the right, but not the obligation, to remedy any violation of this
                     Agreement at the expense of the Local Government or other Improvement
                     Owner after providing reasonable notice to them. If they fail to remedy the
                     violation as provided in the notice, UDOT may, but is not obligated to, take
                     remedial action at the expense of the Local Government and other
                     Improvement Owner. Any action or inaction by UDOT in connection with a
                     Landscape Improvement does not constitute an assumption of any
                     responsibility or liability by UDOT, and it does not constitute a waiver of any
                     requirement of this Agreement.
               iv.   If UDOT has sent two written notices to an Improvement Owner (whether the
                     Improvement Owner is the Local Government or its permittee) concerning a
                     violation of this Agreement, and if thereafter the violation is remedied and
                     UDOT agrees to allow the Landscape Improvement to remain on UDOT
                     property, UDOT also may require the Improvement Owner to file a bond with
                     UDOT in an amount not to exceed $10,000 to protect UDOT against the cost of
                     future violations. The Improvement Owner shall maintain the bond for a 24-
                     month period at a minimum. If the Improvement Owner is a permittee of the
                     Local Government, UDOT agrees that the Local Government can also take this
                     action in addition to UDOT.
                v.   An Improvement Owner may remedy a violation of this Agreement through
                     work provided by a third party, such as a contractor with warranty obligations.
                     But the Local Government and its permittees remain responsible for all costs

                                                                                                          5
                                                                              UDOT MLMA FORM DATE 3 MAR 2026
              and obligations that relate to a Landscape Improvement for which they have
              responsibilities under statutes, regulations, or permits.
      vi.     Landscape uses of UDOT’s right-of-way are subordinate to UDOT’s
              transportation purposes.         An Improvement Owner places plants and
              improvements in UDOT’s right-of-way at its own risk. If UDOT takes any action
              in connection with its right-of-way, UDOT may remove a Landscape
              Improvement without compensating an Improvement Owner. UDOT also may,
              but is not obligated to, provide replacement landscaping as UDOT may
              determine.
           v. UDOT hereby advises the Local Government that UDOT considers compliance
              with this Agreement and with Section R918-6-4 and other applicable law
              when determining whether UDOT will consent to the Local Government’s
              Landscape Improvements, or whether UDOT will consent to a Local
              Government permit pursuant to Utah Code §§ 72-3-109 and 72-7-102.
b. Cooperation. The Local Government and UDOT agree to the following:
        i.    The parties agree to cooperate and work together in good faith.
       ii.    If any object is installed in a UDOT right-of-way without authorization by UDOT
              or by the Local Government, the object is in UDOT’s right-of-way unlawfully.
              UDOT and the Local Government each may remove such installation under their
              legal authority. UDOT and the Local Government each may also require the
              object’s owner to obtain proper authorizations for such improvement at such
              owner’s expense.
      iii.    If the parties dispute what constitutes a violation of this Agreement, or whether
              a specific Landscape Improvement was properly authorized, or whether any
              maintenance is subject to Section R918-6-4 or other applicable requirements,
              or other matters, the parties agree to do the following before pursing any other
              remedy that they may have:
                 1. UDOT and the Local Government agree that they will first send a decision
                      maker from each party to a dispute resolution meeting to discuss the
                      disagreement in good faith, present information in support of each
                      party’s position, and attempt to reach a resolution.
                 2. If the dispute resolution meeting does not fully resolve the matter, the
                      Local Government agrees to submit full information concerning its
                      dispute to a UDOT Region Director to obtain a decision by UDOT.
      iv.     For Local Government permits issued after the Effective Date of this
              Agreement, the Local Government agrees to require its Landscape
              Improvement permittees to: (1) comply with the terms of, and assume the
              Local Government’s obligations under, this Agreement as if it had been entered
              between UDOT and the permittee in connection with the permittee’s
              Landscape Improvement; and (2) agree that both UDOT and the Local
              Government may enforce the terms of this Agreement directly against the
              permittee. Among other things, UDOT and the Local Government shall each
              have the right, but not the obligation, to enforce the indemnity and other
              obligations contained in Section 5 of this Agreement directly against a
              permittee.
       v.     If utility owners or others with a right to be present in the UDOT right-of-way
              pursue work within a Landscape Improvement, the Improvement Owner is


                                                                                                   6
                                                                       UDOT MLMA FORM DATE 3 MAR 2026
                      solely responsible to coordinate work to address any impacts to the Landscape
                      Improvement.
        c. Site Addendum. If ongoing maintenance needs for a specific Landscape Improvement
           site require terms in addition to those contained in this Agreement, the parties may
           address them in a Site Addendum to this Agreement that is substantially in the form
           attached at Exhibit A and incorporated herein.

4. Term. This Agreement shall remain in effect while any Landscape Improvement that is subject to
   this Agreement remains within the Local Government’s jurisdiction. From time to time, UDOT
   may update this Agreement consistent with then-applicable requirements.

5. Indemnity and Insurance. The following shall apply:
       a. Indemnity. The Local Government agrees to indemnify, defend, and save harmless UDOT
          and its commissioners and employees from and against all losses of every kind (including
          but not limited to any claims, suits, costs, environmental contamination damages and
          penalties, and loss from personal injuries and property damage) that arise from or relate to
          (i) the Local Government’s use of UDOT property in connection with this Agreement; or
          (ii) any wrongful or negligent act or omission of the Local Government or its employees,
          agents, contractors or consultants in connection with entering or performing this
          Agreement. The Local Government is a governmental entity subject to the Utah
          Governmental Immunity Act, and nothing in this paragraph is intended to waive any
          provision of the Utah Governmental Immunity Act provided said Act applies to the loss in
          question. This Agreement does not require the Local Government to indemnify UDOT
          against UDOT’s sole negligence.
       b. Damage to UDOT Property. In addition to the indemnification obligation set forth above,
          the Local Government, at its cost, shall repair or replace (to UDOT’s reasonable
          satisfaction) any property that belongs to UDOT that is damaged in connection with a
          Landscape Improvement to the extent that such damage arises from or relates to an act or
          omission (negligent or otherwise) of the Local Government or its employees, agents,
          contractors, consultants, or permittees. The Local Government shall promptly notify
          UDOT of any such damage.
       c. Notification. The parties agree to promptly notify each other of any potential claims or
          losses that may affect the other party that relate to a Landscape Improvement.
       d. Insurance. Each party agrees to require its contractors and consultants working in
          connection with this Agreement to maintain insurance in amounts reasonably sufficient to
          pay for loss arising from the contractor’s or consultant’s acts or omissions (negligent or
          otherwise). In addition, the Local Government hereby represents that it is a member of the
          Utah Local Governments Trust or is adequately self-insured, and it agrees that it will
          remain so for as long as it has any Landscape Improvements located on UDOT’s property.

6. Miscellaneous. The following terms apply to this Agreement:
        a. Any party may give a written notice under this Agreement by delivering it to the following
           physical address (an email may be used in addition as a courtesy), and notice is effective
           upon delivery when delivered by hand or by overnight delivery service with confirmation
           of delivery (or, if placed in the U.S. mail, notice is effective three days after such notice
           receives a postmark):

             To UDOT:                                   To White City:


                                                                                                            7
                                                                                UDOT MLMA FORM DATE 3 MAR 2026
     UDOT                                       White City Mayor c/o
     4501 South 2700 West                       Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services
     Box 143600                                 District
     Salt Lake City, UT 84114                   860 Levoy Dr Suite 300
     Attention: Director of Preconstruction     Taylorsville, UT 84123

     With a copy to:

     Assistant Attorney General (UDOT)
     4501 South 2700 West
     Box 143600
     Salt Lake City, UT 84114



b. The parties agree to undertake and perform all further acts that are reasonably necessary
   (except when expressly prohibited by law) to carry out the intent and purpose of the
   Agreement and to assist UDOT with maintaining compliance with the legal requirements
   applicable to UDOT after receiving a written notice that explains the need for such action.
c. UDOT’s action or inaction when providing a consent, review, acceptance, or approval or
   when taking other action hereunder, for any conditions, inspections, plans, specifications,
   or work, is for purposes of administering this Agreement only, and it does not constitute
   an assumption by UDOT of any responsibility or liability for the same.
d. No part of this Agreement may be waived, whether by a party’s failure to insist on strict
   performance of this Agreement or otherwise, except in a writing signed by an authorized
   representative of the party waiving. No party may assign this Agreement without the other
   parties’ prior written authorization, and any purported assignment to the contrary is void.
   This Agreement does not create any agency, joint venture, partnership, or other relationship
   among the parties, and it is intended only for the parties hereto and does not create any
   third-party beneficiaries. This Agreement is governed by Utah law without reference to
   choice or conflict of law provisions. Jurisdiction for any judicial action brought in
   connection with this Agreement shall be brought in a court in Salt Lake County, Utah, and
   ALL PARTIES KNOWINGLY AND VOLUNTARILY WAIVE THEIR RIGHTS TO A
   JURY TRIAL. Time is of the essence. This Agreement (or, if any part hereof is invalidated
   by law, this Agreement’s remaining provisions) shall be construed to enforce its terms to
   the fullest extent allowed under applicable law to give effect to the intent of the parties.
   This Agreement will not be construed to have a drafter or be construed against a drafter.
   This Agreement’s headings are for convenience only and do not alter the meaning of its
   text. All rights and remedies in this Agreement are cumulative and nonexclusive and do
   not limit any other rights and remedies of the parties. The indemnity provision, remedies,
   and other terms that by their nature are intended to survive a termination of this Agreement
   shall survive a termination. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to limit UDOT’s
   governmental powers and authority. This Agreement may only be amended in a written
   document that is signed by an authorized representative of each party. This is the entire
   agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and it shall supersede all
   prior negotiations, understandings, and agreements with respect to such subject matter.
   Each party warrants that all of its representatives who are necessary to make this
   Agreement fully binding against the party (and its successors and assigns, if any) have
   signed below with the party’s authorization, and that this Agreement’s terms do not violate


                                                                                                    8
                                                                        UDOT MLMA FORM DATE 3 MAR 2026
               other contracts and commitments of the party.    This Agreement may be signed in
               counterparts and signed electronically.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have each caused an authorized representative to execute
this Agreement as of the Effective Date first written above.

 Utah Department of Transportation, an agency
 of the State of Utah
 Region Director:                                 UDOT Comptroller’s Office:


 By:      _______________________                 By:      _______________________
 Title:   _______________________                 Title:   _______________________


 Recommended By:


 By:      _______________________
 Title:   _______________________



 White City


 By:      _______________________                 By:      _______________________
 Title:   _______________________                 Title:   _______________________


                                                  “SEAL”




                                                                                                           9
                                                                               UDOT MLMA FORM DATE 3 MAR 2026
                                            EXHIBIT A


                                  MLMA SITE ADDENDUM FORM

An MLMA Site Addendum is used when it is necessary to state terms in addition to those in the MLMA
  to address the ongoing maintenance and care needs of a particular Landscape Improvement Site.

                                         (See next page)




                                                                                                       10
                                                                            UDOT MLMA FORM DATE 3 MAR 2026
                                                                                        State of Utah
                                                                        Department of Transportation

        MLMA Site Addendum to           Project Name:                                       Finance Number:
        Current Master Landscape
         Maintenance Agreement
       Addendum to UDOT Finance                                                             Tracking Number:
              Number xxxxx
                                        Local Government Agency:
  Project #:                            Site of the Landscape Improvement that requires Date Executed:
  PIN:                                  additional ongoing maintenance terms: (Enter
  Or Permit #:                          Route, Street Name, Name of City, Name of
                                        County, Utah):


THIS MLMA SITE ADDENDUM (“Addendum”) is made and entered to be effective as of the “Date
Executed” which is stated above, by and between the UTAH DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION, an
agency of the State of Utah (“UDOT”), and TOWN/CITY, a Utah municipal corporation (the “Local
Government”).

                                              RECITALS

WHEREAS, the Parties hereto entered into a Master Landscape Maintenance Agreement, which may have
been amended or restated from time to time (the “Agreement”), and the current Agreement’s finance
number is ______ with an Effective Date of ________, as shown in Exhibit “A” attached hereto for
reference; and

WHEREAS, this Addendum is a part of and is governed by the Agreement (including, but not limited to,
the Agreement’s defined terms); and

WHEREAS, the Parties are entering this Addendum to address ongoing maintenance and care needs at
the site which is stated above (the “Site”) in addition to the terms stated in the Agreement.


                                             AGREEMENT

NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the forgoing recitals, which by this reference are incorporated into
this Supplemental Agreement, and the following terms and conditions, it is agreed by and between the
parties as follows:

   1. Nature of Addendum. This Addendum is a part of and is governed by the Agreement, and all of
      the Agreement’s terms and conditions (including, but not limited to, definitions for capitalized
      terms) fully apply to this Addendum, except to the extent that paragraph 4 of this Addendum
      expressly modifies the Agreement for this Site only.


                                                                                                           11
                                                                                UDOT MLMA FORM DATE 3 MAR 2026
   2. Landscape Improvement Site Conditions. [INSTRUCTIONS (DELETE THESE INSTRUCTIONS WHEN
      FINALIZING): IN THIS SECTION, DESCRIBE SPECIFIC SITE CONDITIONS THAT NEED ADDITIONAL
      TERMS TO ADDRESS ONGOING MAINTENANCE AND CARE RESPONSIBILITIES, AND STATE THE
      NEEDED TERMS. FOR EXAMPLE, IF UDOT HAS AGREED TO ALLOW DRAINAGE FROM THE SITE TO
      ENTER UDOT’S STORM DRAIN SYSTEM (WHICH NORMALLY IS NOT THE CASE), EXPLAIN THAT
      CONDITION HERE AND STATE THE TERMS FOR ALLOWING THE DRAINAGE. DO NOT ALTER THE
      MASTER AGREEMENT IN THIS SECTION. IF THIS SECTION IS NOT APPLICABLE, WRITE “N/A” AFTER
      THE TITLE OF THIS PARAGRAPH. IF YOU NEED TO ATTACH A MAP EXHIBIT FOR THIS PARAGRAPH,
      INCLUDE THIS LANGUAGE HERE: The Landscape Improvement for this Site is shown in Exhibit __
      to this Addendum, which is attached hereto and made a part hereof.]


   3. Access. [INSTRUCTIONS (DELETE THESE INSTRUCTIONS WHEN FINALIZING): IN THIS SECTION, IF
      NEEDED, INCLUDE ANY ADDITIONAL TERMS ABOUT ACCESS. FOR EXAMPLE, NORMALLY UDOT
      REQUIRES AN ENCROACHMENT PERMIT TO OBTAIN ACCESS, BUT IN UNUSUAL CIRCUMSTANCES,
      A LICENSE MIGHT BE APPROPRIATE. THAT WOULD BE INCLUDED HERE. DO NOT ALTER THE
      MASTER AGREEMENT IN THIS SECTION. IF THIS SECTION IS NOT APPLICABLE, WRITE “N/A” AFTER
      THE TITLE OF THIS PARAGRAPH. IF YOU NEED TO ATTACH AN EXHIBIT FOR THIS PARAGRAPH,
      INCLUDE THIS LANGUAGE HERE: Access for the Landscape Improvement for this Site is shown in
      Exhibit __ to this Addendum, which is attached hereto and made a part hereof.]

   4. Changes to Agreement for This Site Only. The Agreement is hereby modified as follows for this
      Site only: [INSTRUCTIONS (DELETE THESE INSTRUCTIONS WHEN FINALIZING): IN THIS SECTION, IF
      NEEDED, STATE IN DETAIL ANY MODIFICATIONS TO THE MASTER AGREEMENT THAT WILL APPLY
      TO THIS SITE ONLY. IDENTIFY THE AGREEMENT PARAGRAPH THAT IS BEING MODIFIED, AND THEN
      STATE THE MODIFICATION. AN ADDENDUM CAN ONLY BE USED TO MAKE A SITE-SPECIFIC
      CHANGE TO THE MASTER AGREEMENT, NOT A GENERAL AMENDMENT TO THE MASTER
      AGREEMENT. ALSO, AN ADDENDUM CAN ONLY CHANGE ONGOING MAINTENANCE AND CARE
      RESPONSIBILITIES. IF THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT IS PROPOSING A NEW INSTALLATION OR A
      MAJOR CHANGE TO AN EXISTING INSTALLATION, THAT MUST BE AUTHORIZED THROUGH AN
      AGREEMENT, SUCH AS A BETTERMENT AGREEMENT OR A COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT, OR A
      PERMIT, OR A LOCAL PERMIT APPROVAL PURSUANT TO UTAH CODE § 72-3-109. SEEK LEGAL
      ASSISTANCE WHEN NEEDED. IF THIS SECTION IS NOT APPLICABLE, WRITE “N/A” AFTER THE TITLE
      OF THIS PARAGRAPH. IF YOU NEED TO ATTACH AN EXHIBIT FOR THIS PARAGRAPH, INCLUDE THIS
      LANGUAGE HERE: Changes for the Landscape Improvement for this Site are shown in Exhibit __
      to this Addendum, which is attached hereto and made a part hereof.]

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have each caused an authorized representative to execute this
Addendum to be a part of the Agreement, effective as of the date executed that is first stated above.


  Add - Local Government Name                          Utah Department of Transportation


  By                                  Date             By                                        Date



                                                                                                          12
                                                                               UDOT MLMA FORM DATE 3 MAR 2026
Title/Signature of Official                          Landscape Architect


By                                       Date        By                                       Date
Title/Signature of additional official if required   Region Director


By                                       Date        By                                       Date
Title/Signature of additional official if required   Comptroller’s Office




                                                                                                       13
                                                                            UDOT MLMA FORM DATE 3 MAR 2026
                      EXHIBIT A TO MLMA SITE ADDENDUM

            CURRENT MASTER LANDSCAPE MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT

[ATTACH A COPY OF THE CURRENT MASTER AGREEMENT HERE AND DELETE THIS SENTENCE]




                                                                                          14
                                                               UDOT MLMA FORM DATE 3 MAR 2026
                            EXHIBIT ___ TO MLMA SITE ADDENDUM

                             ________________________________

[THIS IS A COVER SHEET IF YOU NEED TO INCLUDE ADDITIONAL EXHIBITS. FILL OUT THE EXHIBIT LETTER
 AND GIVE IT A NAME FOR EACH EXHIBIT. DELETE THIS PAGE IF THERE ARE NO OTHER EXHIBITS AFTER
       EXHIBIT A. REMOVE THE TEXT IN THESE BRACKETS BEFORE FINALIZING THE DOCUMENT.]




                                                                                                    15
                                                                         UDOT MLMA FORM DATE 3 MAR 2026
                                         WHITE CITY

  DATE: JUNE 4, 2026                                           RESOLUTION No. 2026-06-04

     RESOLUTION ADOPTING EMERGENCY INTERIM SUCCESSION ORDER.

WHEREAS, White City (“City”) recognizes it is at risk to a wide range of natural, technological,
and man-made hazards and such events require ongoing emergency interim successors by all
jurisdictions of government within the City, County, and State;

WHEREAS, the City Council (“Council”) finds that it is in the public interest to have emergency
interim successors;

WHEREAS, City officers, employees, or designees will execute emergency interim successors;

WHEREAS, Utah Code § 53-2a-807 requires the City to designate three emergency interim
successors and the specific order of succession for each officer, designate an emergency alert plan
and system, and provide a list of the designated successors and individuals to the Division of
Emergency Management;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED By the White City, Utah City Council that:
SECTION I: The Emergency Operations Manager and order of succession for White City is
as follows:

           1. Emergency Operations Manager - Mayor;

           2. Mayor Pro Tempore;

           3. Members of the City Council in descending order of seniority on the Council; and

           4. The chief law enforcement officer of the City.

SECTION II: The City Administrator is directed to send this Resolution to the Utah Division of
Emergency Management by June 1st of each year.

SECTION III: Effective Date. This resolution shall take effect upon publication.

PASSED AND ADOPTED at a duly called meeting on this 4th day of June 2026.

                              ***Signatures on Following Page***
WHITE CITY COUNCIL

By: _______________________________
       Allan Perry, Mayor


ATTEST:

_________________________________
Rori L. Andreason, City Administrator/Recorder


Voting:
Mayor Perry voting                 ___
Council Member Mahoney voting      ___
Council Member Huish voting        ___
Council Member Shelton voting      ___
Council Member Price voting        ___
