                        WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
                                      MEETING AGENDA

                                 Thursday, November 10, 2022
                                           6:00 PM

                                White City Water Improvement District
                                999 E Galena Drive, White City 84094

PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the White City Metro Township Council will hold a
regular meeting on the 10th day of November 2022 at the White City Water Improvement District, 999
E Galena Drive, White City, Utah as follows:

This meeting will be held at the anchor location and electronically for members of the staff and/or
public that cannot attend. Those interested in attending electronically should follow the
information noted at the end of this agenda. **Portions of the meetings may be closed for reasons
allowed by statute. Motions relating to any of the items listed below, including final action, may be
taken.

6:00 PM – WORKSHOP
1. Discussion / Clarification of Agenda Items

2. Discuss Community and Economic Development Advisory Committee (CEDAC) Vacancy [Mayor
   Paulina Flint]

3. Update on Engineering projects and the Draft Walk White City Plan [Shane Ellis, Engineer]

4. Dimple Dell Advisory Board Report [Marc Perry]

5. Close Workshop Meeting

BUSINESS MEETING

1. Welcome and Determine Quorum

2. White City Financial Report [Dave Sanderson, Financial Manager]

3. Unified Fire Authority [CPT Ken Aldridge]

4. Unified Police Department [Detective Josh Smith, Chief Randy Thomas]

5. Public Comments -- (Limited to 3 minutes per person) Any person wishing to comment on any
   item not otherwise scheduled for a public hearing on the agenda may address the Council at this
   point by coming to the table and giving their name for the record. Comments should be limited to
   not more than three (3) minutes unless additional time is authorized by the Governing Body.)

6. ACTION ITEMS
   6.1 Approval of Minutes:
White City Metro Township Council Meeting Agenda
November 10, 2022

       1. October 6, 2022
       2. October 22, 2022

   6.2 Discussion and Possible Motion to Consider Resolution No. 22-11-01 A Resolution of the White
       City Metro Township Council Tentatively Approving the 2023 White City Budget, and Setting
       the Public Hearing for Public Comment and Possible Final Adoption on December 1, 2022 at
       6:00 p.m. [Dave Sanderson, Financial Manager]

   6.3 Discussion and Possible Motion regarding the 2022 Budget Amendments to the White City Metro
       Township Budget, and Setting a Public Hearing to receive Public Comment and Possible Final
       Adoption on December 1, 2022 at 6:00 p.m. [Dave Sanderson, Financial Manager]

   6.4 Discussion and Possible Motion regarding the 2023 Consolidated Fee Schedule, and setting a
       Public Hearing for Public Comment and Possible Final Adoption on December 1, 2022 at
       6:00 p.m. [Rori L. Andreason, Administrator]

   6.5 Discussion regarding the Proposed White City Metro Township Council Meeting Schedule for
       the 2023 Calendar Year [Rori L. Andreason, Administrator]

   6.6 Discussion and Possible Motion to Consider Resolution No. 22-11-02 A Resolution Authorizing
       the Mayor to Execute an Interlocal Agreement with Salt Lake County to Accept the Transfer and
       Conveyance of Big Bear Park [Paul Ashton, Attorney]

   6.7 Discussion and Possible Motion regarding the review and recommendation of any needed
       changes to Section 2.56 of the White City Municipal Code regarding the Community Council
       [Paul Ashton, Attorney, Council Member Linda Price]

7. COUNCIL REPORTS
   7.1 Mayor Paulina Flint
   7.2 Council Member Allen Perry
   7.3 Council Member Linda Price
   7.4 Council Member Phillip Cardenaz
   7.5 Council Member Scott Little
8. ADJOURN

** GoToMeeting Option

                       White City Metro Township Council Meeting
                              Thu, Nov 10, 2022 6:00 PM - 9:00 PM (MST)

                   Please join my meeting from your computer, tablet or smartphone.

                                    https://meet.goto.com/388959405

                                  You can also dial in using your phone.

2|Page                            www.whitecity-ut.org
White City Metro Township Council Meeting Agenda
November 10, 2022

                 (For supported devices, tap a one-touch number below to join instantly.)

                                     United States: +1 (571) 317-3122
                                - One-touch: tel:+15713173122,,388959405#

                                          Access Code: 388-959-405


      Get the app now and be ready when your first meeting starts: https://meet.goto.com/install


Upon request with three working days’ notice, the MSD for the Metro Township will provide free
auxiliary aids and services to qualified individuals (including sign language interpreters, alternative
formats, etc.). For assistance, please call (385) 468-7130 – TTY 711.

    For Further Information, the website for White City Metro Township is: www.whitecity-ut.org


Posted On:      November 6, 2022




3|Page                              www.whitecity-ut.org
          TYPOLOGY B1: POPPY LANE NORTH




         EXISTING
Pedestrian Infrastructure Plan


         PROPOSED




                      TYPOLOGY C: LARKSPUR DRIVE




                                                                                    BULB OUTS
                                                                                                 NEW PARK STRIP WITH
                                                                   WIDEN EXISTING               WATER-WISE PLANTING
                                                                   SIDEWALK


                                                                                                       NEW PATHWAY

                                            EXISTING CURB/GUTTER



                                                                                                RELOCATED CURB/GUTTER




                      STREET
                      STREET CHANGES:
                             CHANGES: STREET
                                      STREET VIEW
                                             VIEW




        DRAFT October 2022
                    This page is intentionally left blank.




2   600/700 North
Table of Contents
Acknowledgments

Executive Summary ....................1

1. Introduction ............................3

2. The Project’s Process ...............6

3. Project Goals .........................10

4. Existing Conditions ................12

5. Alternative Scenarios ..............29

6. Pedestrian Network Concept... 44

7. Implementation ......................71




                                                Walk White City 3
Acknowledgments
White City Metro Township Council      White City Walkable Community
Paulina Flint, Mayor                   Committee
Phillip Cardenaz, Councilmember        Allan Perry
D. Scott Little, Councilmember         Becky Liuzzi
Allan Perry, Councilmember             Brent Potter
Linda Price, Councilmember             Cindee Clawson
                                       Daniel Herbert-Voss
                                       Floyd Stensrud
Salt Lake County
                                       Joseph Liuzzi
Shane Ellis, P.E.
                                       Madeline Francisco-Galang
Steven Kuhlmeier, P.E.
                                       Tara Jensen
Toby Lowry
                                       Tyler Huish
Kathryn Romig

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services
District
Erin O’Kelley
Maridene Alexander

Wasatch Front Regional Council
Megan Townsend
Mikala Jordan




Township + Range Community
Planning
Tim Sullivan, AICP
Sophie Bellina

Alta Planning + Design
Dave Foster, PLA
Paulo Aguilera
Cameron Blakely




4    Walk White City
Executive Summary
Walk White City is a planning effort that addresses
the community’s desire for increasing its walkability.
Walk White City advances this goal through a
comprehensive study and plan that contains a clear
network vision and implementation measures. The
project is a partnership among the White City Metro
Township, the Greater Salt Lake Metropolitan Services
District (MSD), Salt Lake County, and Wasatch Front
Regional Council (WFRC).
The Walk White City project team, in collaboration
with the Walkable Community Committee and the
community at large, used transportation planning
and engineering best practices to plan a pedestrian
network that will safely, conveniently, and comfortably
connect the White City community for people walking
within and through it. This work incorporated access
to key community destinations, leveraged existing
infrastructure, and identified opportunities for cost-
effective new infrastructure. The plan also includes
strategies and concepts that will make streets more
aesthetically pleasing, environmentally friendly,
culturally interesting, and health-conscious – creating
a pedestrian network vision that adds up to a sum
greater than its parts.

Walk White City Goals
The Walk White City Goals communicate what the
project seeks to accomplish. The goals were used
to focus existing conditions analysis, to generate
ideas, and to evaluate potential priority projects. As
a vital piece of the plan, they will also be of use to
the project partners implementing the plan going
forward. The goals were developed directly from the
input of the Walkable Community Committee.
The Primary Goals of the plan were:
•   Connect the community to destinations, especially
    schools and parks.
•   Serve all users of the pedestrian environment.
•   Improve the safety of people walking.
•   Enhance White City’s sense of place.

Project Process
The project occurred in three phases:
•   Information gathering and analysis;
•   Idea/concept development that resulted in three
    alternative scenarios; and
•   A Draft and Final Plan.
The process was guided by a framework for project
management, a stakeholder committee, and
community input. Each phase included both in-person
and online opportunities for input.
                                                          Walk White City 1
Pedestrian Network Concept                                                                                                                    1 - Bring every street to a basic level of
                                                                                                                                              infrastructure: a sidewalk on at least one side, ADA
The Pedestrian Network Concept is the overarching                                                                                             curb ramps, and smaller curb radii. This element also
framework for the Walk White City plan’s                                                                                                      focuses on implementing the Safe Routes to School.
recommendations. The Pedestrian Network is the
preferred alternative scenario developed from the                                                                                             2 - Prioritize a small set of key corridors for higher-
three scenarios presented in the previous phase of                                                                                            quality pedestrian infrastructure, streetscape, and
the project. The project team believes this network                                                                                           placemaking.
concept combines the best aspects of each of the
scenarios and best represents the community’s                                                                                                 3 - Enhance and expand the trail network by
opinion on making the key tradeoffs. The project team                                                                                         enhancing existing assets like the White City Trail while
forged this preferred scenario in collaboration with                                                                                          adding new trails in the form of a new loop.
the Walkable Community Committee in response                                                                                                  4 - Improve key nodes throughout White City for safer
to community feedback and the Committee’s                                                                                                     crossings, traffic calming, improved streetscape, and
interpretation of it; team evaluation of the scenarios;                                                                                       sense of place.
the ways projects can best fit together and
complement one another; and best practices.                                                                                                   5 - Improve external pedestrian crossing across
                                                                                                                                              major streets surrounding White City through enhanced
The Pedestrian Network Concept is comprised of                                                                                                and new crossings.
six elements. Each element describes a facet of the
network. The elements are:                                                                                                                    6 - Complement infrastructure with supporting
                                                                                                                                              maintenance and enforcement practices.


                                                                                                                   QUARRY BEND
                                                                                                                                                                               PEDESTRIAN
                                                                                                             / SHOPPING                   / AMPHITHEATER
                                 9400 South                                                                                                                                    NETWORK VISION
                                    /                                                                                                                                                    Street without sidewalk: Add
                                                                                                                                                                                         sidewalk on one side
                                   SANDY
                                   VILLAGE                                                                                                                                               Priority corridor: Sidewalks
                                   SHOPPING                                                                                                                                              on both sides
                                   CENTER

                                                                                                     /         BIG BEAR PARK                                                             Off-street trail

                                                                                                                                                                                         On-street trail
                                                                                                                                                                                         Designated Safe Route to School
                                 BELLVIEW
                                 ELEMENTARY             /
                                                                Galena Dr.
                                                                                                                  /          GLACIER HILLS
                                                                                                                             ELEMENTARY

                                                                                                                                                                                         Raised crossing
      NEIGHBORHOOD
      COMMERCIAL      /                                                           n.                                                                                                     New major street crossing
                                                                               L
                                                                       p    py                        n.
                                                                    Po                       ny
                                                                                                L
                                                                                     ti   mo                                                                                             New grade-separated crossing
                                                                                   An

                                                                                                                        r.                                                               “Hot spot” to address
                                                                                   S eg
                                                                                          oL                       tD
                                                                                                                 in                                                                      with traffic calming
                                                                                               ily
                                                                                                     Dr.      Fl
          LONE PEAK
                      /
          PARK
                                                                                   /        DIMPLE DELL
                                                                                                                                                                    ALTA
                                                                                                                                                                                         Improve existing pedestrian
                                                                                                                                                                                         pass-through
                                                                                                                               EASTMONT
                                                                                                                                              /                   / SHOPPING
                                           AIL




                                                                                            PARK
                                                                           Ca




                                                                                                                               MIDDLE                               CENTER               New pedestrian pass-through
                                         CITY TR




                                                                              r
                                                                             na
                                                                               tio
                                                                                   n
                                                                                       Dr
                                        WHITE




                                                                                         .




                                                                                                                                        St.
                                                   llis St.


                                                              Crocus St.




                                                                                                                                                                                         Micro-park opportunity
                                                                                                                                   rble




                                                                               /            ALTA VIEW
                                                                                                                                   Ma
                                             Amary




                                                                                            ELEMENTARY

                                                                            Larkspur Dr.
                                                                                                                                                                                   /     Key community destination

                                                                                                                                                                                   /     Other walkable destination
                                                                                                                                                      1300 East
                      700 East




                                                                                                           Buddlea Dr.

                                                                                                                                                  /
                                                                       10600 South                                                                NEIGHBORHOOD
                                                                                                                                                  COMMERCIAL
                                                                                       /
                                                                             DIMPLE DELL
                                                                             REC CENTER




The Walk White City Pedestrian Network Concept.
                                                                                                                                                                               0       0.13   0.25               0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Miles   ¥
2   Walk White City
1 Introduction
Walk White City is a planning effort that addresses the    at large, used transportation planning and engineering
community’s desire for increasing its walkability. Walk    best practices to plan a pedestrian network that will safely,
White City advances this goal through a comprehensive      conveniently, and comfortably connect the White City
study and plan that contains a clear network vision and    community for people walking within and through it. This
implementation measures. The project is a partnership      work incorporated access to key community destinations,
among the White City Metro Township, the Greater Salt      leveraged existing infrastructure, and identified
Lake Municipal Services District (MSD), Salt Lake County   opportunities for cost-effective new infrastructure. The
Engineering, and Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC).    plan also includes strategies and concepts that will make
                                                           streets more aesthetically pleasing, environmentally friendly,
The Walk White City project team, in collaboration with    culturally interesting, and health-conscious – creating a
the Walkable Community Committee and the community         pedestrian network vision that adds up to a sum greater
                                                           than its parts.




                                                                                               Walk White City 3
Project background                                                a study of options to add pedestrian infrastructure to Sego
                                                                  Lily Drive.
Walk White City is the result of several factors leading to the
need for the creation of a pedestrian infrastructure plan for     In addition to these efforts, White City has many pedestrian
the community.                                                    assets on which to build. It has several destinations within
                                                                  walking distance – schools, parks, and commercial amenities
The new White City General Plan prioritized improvement           at its edges. And there are some existing pedestrian
of the community’s walking environment. Many General Plan         interventions, such as high-visibility pedestrian-activated
goals – aging in community, safe streetscape for all modes,       crossings on main corridors such as Sego Lily Drive.
placemaking, and fostering local commercial areas – will
benefit from an improved pedestrian environment. White            But the community also faces challenges for walking,
City’s demographics are strong on youth and seniors, two          including a lack of sidewalks on some streets, configurations
groups that rely more heavily on walking for transportation       of streets that lead to speeding and lack of visibility,
and recreation.                                                   connectivity challenges, and barriers across the major
                                                                  roadways surrounding the community.
At the same time, the White City Trail had just been built.
The White City Trail is an off-street multi-use path running      Walk White City sought to leverage these assets and
along a canal right-of-way that is part of a larger canal trail   overcome these challenges to create a vision for a
effort in the southeast part of the Salt Lake Valley. Sandy       connected pedestrian network and set of strategies to
City had built a segment of the canal trail to the immediate      achieve it.
south of White City. The trail now provides a “spine” for all
kinds of walking and other active transportation through
the center of the community - including a new bridge across
the Dimple Dell ravine. The trail has increased community
interest in walking and raises the issue of how to enhance
and extend the trail.
And, the community had also become interested in
improving what is perhaps its most major street, Sego Lily
Drive, for walking. The Metro Township and MSD undertook




                                                                  Factors setting the stage for Walk White City include the White
                                                                  City General Plan; study of Sego Lily Drive; and the building of
                                                                  the White City Trail.



4    Walk White City
Walkable communities
Why is Walking Important?
Walking is the most fundamental aspect of transportation
in a community. Everyone is a pedestrian at some point in
every trip. The ability to walk around a neighborhood or
city creates many benefits for a community’s residents and
visitors, including:
•   Better mobility options
•   Access to community destinations
•   Improved health
•   A cleaner environment
•   Improved economic vitality
•   Increased community connections with neighbors
What is a Walkable Community?
A place that is safe, convenient, and comfortable to
walk around is called a walkable community. A walkable
community has great infrastructure oriented to walking,
such as sidewalks, paths, crosswalks, and traffic calming. But
there’s more to it.
A walkable community must have what is called a “human
scale.” A human scale means that the environment is made
of things that are sized to provide comfort to people, such
as sidewalks, paths, trees, landscaping, benches, pedestrian-
scaled lighting, and building entries. On our streets, human
scale typically means a balance of space designed for
people and space designed for automobiles. Often, this
balance is tipped too far toward motor vehicle space.
A walkable community is an equitable community, with safe
routes, places, and crossings for all people using the streets
and pathways, whether young, old, using a wheelchair or
mobility device, or walking a stroller.




                                                                 Aspects of walkable communities include buffered sidewalks,
                                                                 street trees, traffic-calmed streets, a variety of people walking,
                                                                 and places to walk to and meet up with friends and community.


                                                                                                       Walk White City 5
2 The project’s process
The MSD, Township, and County applied for a grant
within the Transportation and Land Use Connection
(TLC) program, administered by WFRC. These entities
hired a consultant team led by Township + Range
Community Planning and also including Alta Planning
+ Design.
The project occurred in three phases:
•   The first phase was information gathering and
    analysis.
•   Next was a second phase of idea and concept
    development that resulted in a series of
    alternative pedestrian network scenarios.
•   The project concluded with a Draft and Final Plan.
The process was guided by a framework for project
management, a Walkable Community Committee,
and community input. Each of these elements
was addressed by a specific facet of the project,
summarized below.

Project Management Team
The Project Management Team was a small group
comprised of staff members of the project partners
and the consultant team that met every two weeks to
administer the project.




           Figure 2.1: Each of the three project phases included an opportunity for public input.




6   Walk White City
Walkable Community Committee
The Walkable Community Committee represented the
stakeholders’ perspective throughout the planning
process. The committee worked closely with the
project management team to direct and shape
the plan. Committee members included White City
residents, elected officials, County Parks & Recreation
staff, and Canyons School District representatives.
The group met five times throughout the planning
process, touring the community on foot; setting
goals; planning public outreach events and resources;
brainstorming, synthesizing, and evaluating ideas; and
ultimately refining and endorsing the Walk White City
plan.
The Walkable Community Committee was:
•   Allan Perry
•   Becky Liuzzi
•   Brent Potter
•   Cindee Clawson
•   Daniel Herbert-Voss
•   Floyd Stensrud
•   Joseph Liuzzi
•   Madeline Francisco-Galang
•   Tara Jensen
•   Tyler Huish




                                                          Walk White City 7
Community engagement
The Walk White City planning process included a
comprehensive community engagement strategy.
Each of the three project phases (listed above)
included a community engagement component, with
both in-person and online opportunities to provide
input. The community engagement opportunities
were as follows:
Phase 1: Information Gathering (January 2022)
•   In person: Open House on January 27, advertised
    by a mailer and social media posts; 21 attendees.
•   Online: Interactive map; comment cards.
Phase 2: Ideas and Concepts (May 2022)
•   In person: Open House on May 12, advertised by
    a mailer and social media posts; 22 attendees.
•   Online: Survey about alternatives and concepts;
    177 responses (including those submitted at the
    open house).
Phase 3: Draft and Final Plan (October 2022)




Open houses provided an opportunity for people to learn about and discuss the project with the project team and provide input in the
form of colored dots representing likes and dislikes, notes, and map markups.


8    Walk White City
The project team promoted the Open Houses and survey through mailers (top) while the Walk White City website provided a
clearinghouse for project information and work products (bottom).


                                                                                                         Walk White City 9
3 Project Goals
The Walk White City Goals communicate what the
project seeks to accomplish. The goals were used for
                                                                  Primary Goals
multiple purposes throughout the project process
- to focus existing conditions analysis, to generate
ideas, and to evaluate potential priority projects. As a
                                                                  1      Connect the community to
                                                                         destinations, especially schools and
vital piece of the plan, they will also be of use to the                 parks.
project partners implementing the plan going forward,
providing a compass of priority and community                            White City’s small size makes it perfect
values.                                                                  for walking, especially to access the
The goals were developed directly from the input of                      community’s schools such as Alta View
the Walkable Community Committee at its kickoff                          Elementary and Eastmont Middle School
meeting in December, 2021, as well as from elements                      and parks such as Big Bear Park and Dimple
of the project scope. Each member identified their                       Dell Regional Park. These destinations are
project priorities, and the group had a broader
discussion. The project team identified 22 themes                        all within walking distance. These are the
from this discussion and refined these into a list of                    most important walking connections in the
draft goals. The goals are comprised of four primary                     city and better connecting people to them
goals and eight supporting goals:                                        is a vital part of the plan.


                                                                  2      Serve all users of the pedestrian
                                                                         environment.
                                                                         Walk White City will consider the pedestrian
                                                                         needs of all people throughout the
                                                                         community. A diversity of people walk the
                                                                         streets and paths of White City, in a range
                                                                         of ways. The community is especially strong
                                                                         in the demographics of young and old,
                                                                         two groups that tend to walk more. White
                                                                         City streets should also serve people using
                                                                         wheelchairs and other mobility devices, as
                                                                         well as strollers.




Goal setting at the Walkable Community Committee kickoff meeting, December 2021.




10   Walk White City
                                                    Secondary / Supporting Goals

3 Improve the safety of people walking.             5 Balance vehicle and pedestrian space in
                                                      White City streets.
    Basic safety of people on foot is a vital
    component of a walkable community. A safe
                                                    6 Improve the Sego Lily Drive corridor for
    pedestrian environment rests on mutual
                                                      people walking.
    visibility, slow vehicle speeds, and, perhaps
    most importantly, a scale that favors the
                                                    7 Continue to improve the network of off-
    pedestrian. Unsafe locations will receive
                                                      street trails.
    the first attention and safety will be a
    consideration in every aspect of the plan.
                                                    8 Improve street and pathway
                                                      intersections.
4   Enhance White City’s sense of place.
    White City’s streets are also its community     9 Safely and conveniently cross major
    space, and this plan presents a chance to         streets and municipal boundaries at the
    communicate White City’s community identity       edge of White City.
    through its streetscapes. “Sense of place”
    refers to the aspects of a city that make it    10 Increase access to transit.
    unique. These can include parks and other
    open spaces, landmarks, and the way one         11 Carefully shape land use to improve
    enters a community. To enhance White City’s        walkability.
    sense of place, Walk White City will identify
    opportunities and projects that can create      12 Enable maintenance of pedestrian
    a network of great community spaces and            infrastructure.
    highlight special views and landmarks.




                                                                                     Walk White City 11
4 Existing conditions &
community input
Understanding and painting a picture of the current conditions is a vital step for any plan. For Walk White City,
it was important to understand the physical conditions shaping the challenges and opportunities as well as the
community values driving the desire for walking improvements.
The existing conditions analysis for walking in White City has three parts. The first part is a summary of the basic
pedestrian infrastructure and an overview of the pedestrian network. The second part is a summary of public
feedback received in the first phase of community outreach. The third part is an analysis of how well each of
the Walk White City Goals is currently being met – summarizing the assets, challenges, and opportunities for
improvement. It is these opportunities that point us forward toward the next phase of the Walk White City plan.
The report gathers and synthesizes information from:
•    Existing documents and planning efforts such as the General Plan and the recent Sego Lily study;
•    Data such as crash history and Safe Routes to School routes;
•    Team field work and observations; and
•    Public feedback through the January 2022 Open House, online map, and comment form.
The overview of the analysis in this section provides an abridged summary - for the full analysis please see the
Appendix.




Map comments for assets, destinations, challenges, and ideas at the January 2022 community Open House.

Network overview
White City contains a series of key streets that are and will continue to be important for walking – Sego Lily,
Carnation, Larkspur, Galena, and Poppy, as well as Buddlea, Flint, the segment of Marble south of Sego Lily,
Emerald, Onyx, Antimony, and Amaryllis. These streets traverse the community and, in many cases, provide
connections far beyond White City to the surrounding region. Figures 4.1 and 4.2 show these key corridors, both
in the context of White City and of the surrounding region. In addition to these streets, other key elements in the
network are walkable destinations and barriers.


12   Walk White City
Figures 4.1 and 4.2: The pedestrian network in the White City context (top) and the larger regional context
(bottom), showing key corridors, destinations, and barriers.


                                                                                                              Walk White City 13
Infrastructure overview                                     The neighborhood areas including Serpentine Way
                                                            and Barium Lane directly north and south of Sego Lily
A sidewalk inventory identified routes that are most        Drive are roadways with missing sidewalks as well. The
suitable for walking or that require improvements.          neighborhood areas south of the Dimple Dell Park
This desktop inventory was based on a sidewalk              offer a relatively complete network.
gap layer provided by Salt Lake County and edited
based on 2021 aerial imagery to reflect sidewalks and       The southern part of White City generally is equipped
crosswalks.                                                 with sidewalks (apart from the far western segment),
                                                            and in many cases its streets have a nice pedestrian
The inventory did not consider conditions of existing       scale.
facilities, such as surface quality or width, and instead
identified areas where sidewalks of any condition           Much of the northern part of White City is missing
were available. The results of the sidewalk inventory       sidewalks on its streets, including all or segments of
represent a gap analysis, identifying locations where       key pedestrian corridors such as Sego Lily and Poppy.
sidewalks are missing on either one or both sides of
the street.                                                 Some curb ramps within White City predate or do
                                                            not comply with ADA standards. This may include
Sixty-three percent of White City streets have              scenarios where curbs ramps are too steep, lack
sidewalks on both sides, 4 percent have sidewalks           adequate turning space, or are missing tactile warning
on one side only, and 33 percent have no sidewalks.         strips.
The major portion of roads missing sidewalks in the
study area exists on the west side of the White City        For many White City streets, the official public right-of-
Canal. This area is mostly missing sidewalks on both        way extends well into defacto yard space.
sides of the street with a few exceptions on Galena
Drive where sidewalks exist on one side of the street.




Figure 4.3: Pedestrian infrastructure.


14   Walk White City
Community engagement takeaways                                      Figure 4.4 shows how the initial round of community
                                                                    input broke down by type of comment and
The first phase of the community engagement                         geographically; Meanwhile, on the following pages,
process provided a complement to the project team’s                 Figure 4.5 shows how the themes of the initial round
analysis - painting a picture of the community’s values             of community input aligned with the Walk White City
and observations to go with the technical data.                     Goals.
•   White City residents are interested in establishing
    the community’s sense of place and identity in the
    pedestrian environment and see opportunities to
    do so in small public spaces, a wayfinding system,
    and other opportunities.
•   The White City community is interested in
    seeing key demographics within the community
    accommodated in the pedestrian realm, such as
    people with disabilities, seniors, and families.
•   The need for traffic calming is a strong theme
    in public input, throughout the community, but
    especially on many of the key pedestrian corridors
    identified above.




Figure 4.4: Interactive and Open House map comments in first outreach phase.



                                                                                                   Walk White City 15
                    WalkWhiteCity
         Below is a summary of feedback from the first public outreach phase. The community submitted 218 comments
         using several means: An interactive online map; an online comment    Community
                                                                                     form; andFeedback
                                                                                                  at an open house
         attendees could leave comments on a printed map as well as on comment cards. Comments were distilled into
                                                                                                                  Summaryevent where
             During the ﬁrst public outreach phase residents submitted 218 comments using several sources, including an interactive online map, an online co
         themes   and, in the chart below, the themes are categorized according to the most relevant Walk White City Goals.
             comment cards. Comments are divided according to the most relevant Walk White City project goals.

                                                                            Primary Goals
                        Goal 1                              Goal 2                        Goal 3                            Goal 4                   Goal 5                      Goal 6
                       Connect the                      Serve all users of              Improve the                       Enhance White           Balance vehicle              Improve the
                      community to                       the pedestrian               safety of people                    City’s sense of         and pedestrian              Sego Lily Drive
                       destinations,                      environment                      walking                              place             space on White                corridor for
                        especially                                                                                                                  City streets              people walking
                     schools & parks

                                                                                                                                                  Lack of / add
                                                                                                                                                  sidewalks on
                                                                ADA                                   general                                     major internal              Calming
                                                             Compliance                                                                              streets                  7 comments                   E
                                                                                                      8 comments
                                                               6 comments                                                                            9 comments
                      Dimple Dell
                        access

                        11 comments

                                                                                                                            Placemaking -
                                                                                                                          and underutilized                Lack of / add
                                                          Senior challenges                                               spaces are missed                                                                Im
                                                                                                                                                           sidewalks on         Sego Lily crossings
ISSUES/CHALLENGES




                                                                                                                            opportunities                                                                Can
                                                               2 comments
                                                                                    Visibility - day & night                                              neighborhood                4 comments
                                                                                             5 comments                        11 comments                    streets
                                                                                                                                                                 3 comments

                                         8 comments

                                                                                     - Carnation Dr.                                                                                        Sego Lily
                                                                                                                                                                                           sidewalks
                                                                                         3 comments
                               New internal                                                                                                     Streets do not                              3 comments

                                community                                                                                                       need sidewalks
                                pedestrian                                                       On-street
                                                                                                                                                   3 comments

                               connections                                                        parking
                                      3 comments                                               creates poor
                                                                                                pedestrian
                                                                                                conditions                                      Pathways are not
                               Sidewalk                                                               3 comments                                    needed                           1 comment
                                 gaps                                                                                                                1 comment
                                      2 comments



                            Formalize
                             informal                                                    creates safety                                                Restrict/prohibit
                           connections                                                       issues                                                    on-street parking
                                                                                             1 comment                                                           1 comment
                               1 comment




                                                                                      Use bulb-                                                   Improve sidewalk
                      An improved trailhead at Carnation                              outs for                                                    connectivity
                                                                                                                                                                                                          E
                      Drive with a designated and accessible                          shorter
                                                                                                                   Demonstrate “comfortable                                                               e
                      path to Dimple Dell.                                            crossing
                                                                                                                   walking community” at                                                                  T
                                                                                      distances
                                                                                                                   community gateways.                                                                    a
                                                                                                                                                                              Use bulb-outs to            P
                                                                                                                                                  Ensure sidewalks            improve crossing            9
                                                                                                                                                  are according to            safety on Sego Lily
                                                                                                 More speed                                       ADA standards.              Drive.
                                                                                                 bumps or
                                                   Ensure ADA accessibility of
IDEAS




                                                                                                 speed tables
                                                   pathway connections.
                                                                                                                          Add micro parks
                                                                                                                          in bulb-outs at
                                                                                                                          Canal Trail and
                                                                                                                          Sego Lily crossing.     Wide sidewalks
                                                                                                                                                  that comfortably            Continuous
                    Additional access points                                                                                                                                  sidewalks along
                    to Dimple Dell at existing                                   More pedestrian                                                  next to each other.         Sego Lily Drive
                    dead-ends.                                                   activated
                                                                                 crossing lights

                                                                                                                         Community garden
          Figure 4.5: Community feedback by goal theme.


          16          Walk White City
p, an online comment form, and during an open house event where residents could leave comments on a printed map as well as using


                                                 Supporting Goals
    6          Goal 7                 Goal 8                        Goal 9                 Goal 10                    Goal 11                  Goal 12
he            Continue to          Improve street                   Safely and            Increase access              Carefully                 Enable
rive          improve the           and pathway                conveniently cross             to transit              shape land             maintenance
or                                  intersections              major streets and                                    use to improve           of pedestrian
king          street trails         and crossings             municipal boundaries                                    walkability         infrastructure and
                                                              at the edge of White                                                          enforcement of
                                                                        City                                                                      laws
                                     Crossings of
                                     major streets
                                     surrounding                                                                                                       Lack of
             Expand existing          White City
               Canal Trail                                                                                                                        Enforcement of
                                                                      Lack of safe                                                                 existing laws/
                  4 comments            11 comments              crossings on major                                                                 regulations
                                                                 streets surrounding
                                                                       White City                                                                      10 comments

                                                                       11 comments
                                                                                                                      Land use ideas
                                                                                                                         2 comments

             Improve existing      Sego Lily
ssings     Canal Trail crossings   crossings
s
                                                                                                                                                 Lack of
                 4 comments
                                   4 comments                                                                                              maintenance of
                                                                                                                                           existing facilities

                                                                                                                                               10 comments
 Lily                                                                                        TRAX access
walks                                                                                          1 comment
ments                                       Canal Trail
                                            crossings                Feel unsafe/
                                                4 comments
                                                               uncomfortable on major
                                                                 streets surrounding
                                                                       White City                                                                 Snow removal
                                                                       5 comments                                                                   concerns
                                                                                                                                                        1 comment




                                   General crossing
                                      concerns
                                                                                                                                            On-street parking
                                         1 comment                                                                                        creates maintenance
                                                               Destinations on 10600th                                                          challenge
                                                                         South                                                                       1 comment
                                                                        1 comment




                                                                                         Provide a clear
                                                                                         and direct access
             Expand the
                                                                                         route to the TRAX
             existing Canal
                                                                                         station.                                        Improve maintenance
             Trail north
                                   Improve                                                                                               of existing facilities like
             around Big Bear
s to                               crossings to reach                                                                                    Canal Trail, pathways,
             Park and towards
sing                               destinations just                                                                                     trailheads.
             9400 South
o Lily                             outside White City.
                                                                                                           Small shops/cafes
                                                                                                           along 10600th South




                                                      Additional crossings across
                                                      major streets surrounding                              Use White Towers
ong                                                   White City.                                            building year-round
ve
                                                                                                                                        Enforcement of parking

                                                                                                                                        violations




                                                                                                                                       Walk White City 17
Goal summaries
The remainder of this section focuses on analysis of the Walk White City Goals - the assets for achieving each goal,
the challenges to achieving each goal, and the opportunities to achieve it.

Goal 1 – Connect the community to destinations, especially schools and parks.
Figures 4.1 and 4.2 above identify community destinations within White City and within walking distance outside
of White City’s boundaries. The network overview provides strengths and weaknesses of the network relative to
pedestrian access to and from the destinations. Public feedback indicates that walking for White City residents
is focused on those destinations within the community – largely parks and schools, as well as recreational walk-
ing, especially on the trail. But people do also walk or want to walk to other types of destinations – especially the
shopping areas at the edges of the community, as well as the parks and recreation opportunities just outside the
community.
The analysis in Figure 4.6 considers the area within a half-mile (around a 10-minute) walk of two key destinations
– Big Bear Park and Alta View School – both in an ideal network and in reality. The gap between that ideal network




Figure 4.6: Walk-sheds of key destinations.


18   Walk White City
The team also considered school access from various points throughout the community. The Walkable Community
Committee has expressed a desire to integrate both school and broader community access, in that improvements
need to support the school as well as the community. The Canyons School District states that its main goal is to
create continuous sidewalks. Currently, without continuous sidewalks on both sides of streets, kids need to cross
streets to get to sidewalks.
The team analyzed access for each of the key schools – Alta View, Bell View, and the new Glacier Hills elementary
school.




Figure 4.7: Pedestrian infrastructure with school access.




                                                                                            Walk White City 19
Assets                                                     Opportunities
•    Many parks and schools and other destinations in      •   Projects that benefit both schools and the
     and around White City                                     broader community – many of the key corridors
                                                               identified above in the network section also
•    An overall walkable scale of the community                are vital for school access: such as Carnation,
                                                               Larkspur, Buddlea, Galena, and Poppy. Some
•    A relatively connected street network in the north
                                                               of these corridors lack dedicated pedestrian
     and south portions of White City
                                                               space, and for the others, the issue is likely traffic
•    School access generally does not involve crossing         calming.
     major streets like 1300 East and 10600 South
                                                           •   An improved trailhead at Carnation Drive with a
•    Pass-throughs on Onyx and Emerald that facilitate         designated and accessible path to Dimple Dell –
     access to the Big Bear Park and the shopping area         idea from the public
     to the northeast
                                                           •   Additional access points to Dimple Dell at existing
•    Pass through between Carnation and Alta View              dead-ends – idea from the public
     school increases school and overall community
                                                           •   Traffic calming on Larkspur to improve Alta View
     access
                                                               school access
Challenges
                                                           •   Creation of a wayfinding system to create
•    The Dimple Dell ravine as a barrier with only a few       awareness of destinations, access, and key links/
     crossings                                                 pass-throughs

•    Need for improvements to access to Dimple Dell –      •   Create a connection from Big Bear Park to the
     11 public comments                                        east

•    Access to Big Bear Park from the east                 •   Improve Carnation-Marble link through Dimple
                                                               Dell park
•    Traffic safety on Larkspur related to Alta View
     school                                                •   Integrate dedicated pedestrian space on key
                                                               streets in northern part of White City – potentially
•    Traffic safety on Galena and Sego Lily related to         Poppy Lane, Galena Drive, and Sego Lily Drive, as
     Bell View and Glacier Hills schools                       well as Emerald, Onyx, Antimony, and the loop
                                                               created by Poppy Lane south of Sego Lily, around
•    The segment of Sego Lily alongside Eastmont               the 9990 S loop and back up to Sego Lily on 730
     Middle School may be problematic – cluster of             E.
     crashes toward the intersection, the hill, and
     intersections at 1820 East and Marble Street          •   Streets in the southern part of White City,
                                                               although with sidewalks, like Crocus and Amaryllis,
•    Lack of sidewalks on streets accessing formerly           have sidewalks but are important connections so
     Bell View and now Glacier Hills school                    could improve the pedestrian environment and
•    Lack of pedestrian routes on key streets accessing        crossings of other busy streets.
     the schools in the northern part of White City        •   Create crossings (or better wayfinding) of the
•    Improve wayfinding throughout the community               White City Trail at 9400 South (future) and 10600
                                                               South; in the interim could create a Poppy Lane
•    Crossings of 9400 South and 10600 South –                 crossing at 9400 South.
     especially at White City Trail
                                                           •   Seek opportunities for crossings of Sego Lily
•    Open Spaces in many cases lie just on the other           at 700 East and 1300 East – curb extensions,
     side of busy streets at the edge of White City            phasing, ped time, and visibility.




20   Walk White City
Goal 2 – Serve all users of the pedestrian environment.
We assess this goal by looking at three demographics either prevalent in White City or critical to address in the
pedestrian environment, seniors, people with disabilities, and families. If we can address the issues within the
pedestrian environment for these three groups, this will address issues for almost all other users in the process.
Seniors: Considerations for seniors are to enhance recreational walking opportunities, ensure visibility of people
walking, and increase access to transit.
People with disabilities: Considerations are to ensure sidewalks meet Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
requirements, ensure curb ramps are present, and ensure roadway crossings are designed well for people with
sight impairments. Figure 3 above identifies the locations of curb ramps, and discusses how some curb ramps
throughout White City do not meet ADA.
Families: Considerations are to ensure visibility between motorists and people walking, running, and crossing the
streets, and to ensure sidewalks and crossings are navigable for strollers.

Assets                                                       Opportunities
•   ADA curb ramps on many corners                           •   Adding dedicated space/sidewalks to streets
•   Pass-throughs for Alta View on either side of            •   Increased enforcement of parking
    Carnation
                                                             •   Help seniors/exempt from snow removal on new
Challenges                                                       sidewalks
•   Streets that lack pedestrian space or accommo-           •   Build ADA-compliant curb ramps on every
    dations                                                      intersection
•   Senior-specific challenges – snow removal                •   Build more school access pass-throughs
•   ADA compliance – especially of the slope of curb         •   Build wide sidewalks that have space for families
    ramps and non-existent curb ramps – 6 public                 and strollers
    comments
                                                             •   Extend White City Trail to the north (into or
•   ADA compliance can be difficult to integrate into            around Big Bear Park)
    White City’s streets largely due to constrained
    space to accommodate enough space for the                •   Improve White City Trail – maintenance
    required widths and maximum slopes. There is,
                                                             •   Improve White City Trail - amenities
    in many cases, additional right-of-way, but it is a
    defacto part of homes’ yards.                            •   Increase Dimple Dell access and recreation
                                                                 opportunities
•   Enforcement of parking regulations where cars
    block sidewalk                                           •   Generally improve safety (see Goal 3
                                                                 opportunities)




                                                                                              Walk White City 21
Goal 3 – Improve the safety of people walking.
The character of much of White City’s street network – largely built during an automobile focused era with a com-
bination of wide major roadways, narrow side streets, minimal sidewalks and marked street crossings – presents
safety challenges. Not every street or area presents these challenges, but there are problem areas.
Figure 4.8 shows how a series of these issues can come together at an intersection – in this case, Sego Lily Drive
and Poppy Lane.
Committee and public feedback reinforces these observations. The committee and the public expressed concern
about vehicle speeds in White City. They described cars going too fast, on major streets such as Sego Lily and
Larkspur, and cited design issues like too much width in the roadway. Participants noted design-related speed
concerns with minor streets too. There were also several concerns about cut-through traffic from non-residents.
Other comments identified the safety challenges associated with missing sidewalks or a lack of other dedicated
space, especially on busy streets. Specifically, visibility concerns such as line of sight, blind corners, and not enough
lighting, were noted.
We can also look at the most severe outcomes of poor safety – crashes involving motor vehicles and pedestrians.
In Figure 4.9, an analysis of pedestrian-involved crashes in and just around White City from 2011 to 2021 shows
the location and severity of crashes in this period. In general, crashes tend to be distributed relatively evenly
across the community –but they all occur on one of the key corridors for the community that we have mentioned
above – Sego Lily, Galena, Larkspur, Carnation, or on one of the major streets surrounding the community. Yet
crashes seem to be just as, if not more, prevalent within the community than along its boundaries (although most
of the more serious injuries seem to have happened on the more major streets). Sego Lily in particular seems to
be a nexus for crashes. And, there are some clusters – particularly at either end of Sego Lily at 700 and 1300 East.
Figure 4.9 also shows how the crashes align with issues raised by the public in the project’s first community
feedback phase. These align somewhat, but while the key axis of public interest is the White City trail, the key axis
of crashes is along Sego Lily Drive. In fact, some of the places where there were crashes along Sego Lily did not
generate much public interest.




Figure 4.8: Illustration of safety issues found throughout the White City community.




22   Walk White City
Assets                                                             •   Crash hot spots at Sego Lily crossings of community
                                                                       edge streets – 700 East and 1300 East
•   Generally, a connected network of neighborhood
    streets                                                        •   Long stretches of major streets within the
                                                                       community without marked crossings
•   Detached sidewalks and narrow roadways in
    much of the southern and north-eastern part of                 •   Long stretches of major, busy streets at community
    the community                                                      edges without marked/signalized crossings
•   Some pedestrian-activated flashing beacons                     •   Lack of visibility between motorists and pedestrians,
                                                                       especially at intersections
•   Some marked crosswalks
                                                                   •   Lack of lighting
•   Sego Lily data collected in 2020 identified
    average speeds of about 22 to 28 miles per hour                •   On-street parking practices create safety issues
    throughout the corridor in White City, with 85th                   with blocking and visibility
    percentile speeds not exceeding 32 miles per
    hour.                                                          Opportunities

Challenges                                                         •   Add sidewalks to streets without them by building
                                                                       into the part of the right-of-way currently a defacto
•   Lack of dedicated pedestrian space                                 part of people’s yards
•   Wide roadways leading traffic to move fast                     •   Add sidewalks to the part of the street currently
                                                                       used for on-street parking – on one or both sides
•   Documented traffic speed issues – 8 public
    comments. Examples are at Larkspur, Galena,                    •   Add sidewalks to streets without sidewalks, starting
    Carnation, Sego Lily                                               with the key corridors identified in the community
                                                                       like Poppy
•   Sego Lily corridor proves dangerous for
    pedestrians – both in observations, public                     •   Add dedicated pedestrian “lane” in streets without
    feedback, and in documented crashes                                sidewalks in place of a parking lane – prohibit
                                                                       parking on one side
                                                                   •   Add sidewalks to Sego Lily
                                                                   •   Consider a shared use path on Sego Lily
                                                                   •   Reconfigure streets at allow people to walk in
                                                                       roadway safely – i.e. parking restrictions, traffic
                                                                       calming, signage
                                                                   •   Use bulb-outs for shorter crossing distances and
                                                                       better visibility around parked vehicles on wide
                                                                       roads such as Sego Lily
                                                                   •   Use bulbouts at corners to reduce turning radius at
                                                                       key intersections
                                                                   •   More speed bumps or speed tables
                                                                   •   Pedestrian activated crossings on Sego Lily – such
                                                                       as at Marble to access Eastmont and Dimple Dell
                                                                   •   Pedestrian activated crossings – Carnation/
                                                                       Larkspur?
                                                                   •   Narrow roadways where practicable
                                                                   •   Traffic calming techniques – pinch points, chicanes,
                                                                       visual roadway narrowing – at key streets such as
                                                                       Sego Lily, Carnation, Larkspur, Galena, Poppy
                                                                   •   Add street lighting to key community corridors
                                                                   •   Safety improvements at Sego Lily/1300 East and
                                                                       Sego Lily/700 East
                                                                   •   Add crossing at White City Trail at10600 South and
Figure 4.9: Map of pedestrian-involved crashes in White City and       9400 South
“heat map” of community comments.
                                                                                                     Walk White City 23
Goal 4 – Enhance White City’s sense of place.
Sense of place and placemaking refer to the process of identifying and improving a community’s public realm to
express its uniqueness and values and overall positive aspects. To define a community’s sense of place, we could
ask ourselves a number of questions, such as where is existing public space? What is the existing placemaking?
What is the White City identity and how is it communicated? Is there any wayfinding? What are the existing commu-
nity gateways? These are all opportunities for Walk While City.
Figure 4.10 below identifies the broad placemaking opportunities in White City. The two axes of White City Trail/Big
Bear Park and Dimple Dell Park pop out as a framework for placemaking. There are several primary and secondary
gateways to the community, and landmarks such as White Towers swimming pool and the new Dimple Dell bridge
at the trail. For White City, the schools also are central public elements that present placemaking opportunities.




Figure 4.10: Important community places and spaces in White City.




24   Walk White City
Assets                                                     Opportunities
•   Big Bear Park                                          •   Create sense of place and traffic calming at Carna-
                                                               tion/Larkspur (where White Towers is)
•   White City Trail as a public space, including bridge
                                                           •   Demonstrate comfortable walking community at
•   Axes of north-south White City/Canal Trail and             community gateways
    Big Bear Park and east-west Dimple Dell create a
    great placemaking framework                            •   Micro-parks at bulbouts – such as at Sego Lily
                                                               crossing of White City Trail
•   Dimple Dell Park
                                                           •   Amenities on White City Trail such as benches,
•   Schools                                                    wayfinding, pull-up bars, and community gardens
•   Community gateways, especially at Sego Lily, but       •   Micro-parks at dead ends at Dimple Dell
    also at either end of Carnation and at north end
    of Poppy                                               •   Micro-parks where paths cross Dimple Dell
•   White City signs as one enters the community on        •   Community garden
    Sego Lily
                                                           •   Pedestrian-scale wayfinding system
•   Local landmarks like White Towers
                                                           •   Paint intersections
•   Underutilized spaces/missed opportunities – 11
    public comments                                        •   Play areas

Challenges                                                 •   Themed improvements flowers, bears

•   Little clearly conveys White City sense of place
•   In general, major streets are geared toward vehi-
    cles with little focus on the needs of pedestrians
•   No “Main Street” or walkable commercial district
    that is usually the way a community commu-
    nicates and celebrates its sense of place – but
    White City can work with its parks, open spaces,
    and schools




                                                                                           Walk White City 25
Goal 5 – Balance vehicle and pedestrian space               Goal 6 – Improve the Sego Lilly Drive corridor
in White City streets.                                      for people walking.
Many White City streets lack quality space for those        Sego Lily is perhaps the central corridor of the White
walking or rolling. Meanwhile, wide roadways can lead       City community – or at least the northern portion. It
to speeding. Walk White City will recommend ways to         provides links to downtown Sandy to the west and
create or expand pedestrian space, narrow vehicle           into nearby neighborhoods and commercial and
travel lane widths or provide other traffic calming         recreation nodes to the east. Sego Lily reflects and
measures traffic, design on-street parking to maxi-         embodies many of the pedestrian issues in White City:
mize safety, while still keeping an appropriate amount      it currently lacks sidewalks for over half of its length
of space for motor vehicles and other modes. This           through White City, its wide road facilitates resident
balance will likely be different for each street depend-    perceptions of fast driving , and despite a pedestri-
ing on its needs for different modes and place in the       an activated crossing beacon at the White City Trail,
network.                                                    some find its pedestrian crossings not safe or visible
                                                            enough. The perception of a lack of safety could be
The existing cross sections in Figure 4 provide an          due to the relative size of pedestrian space to vehicu-
overview of the way the range of streets in White City      lar space. As roads get wider and automobiles travel
are configured. On many streets in the southern por-        faster, the pedestrian infrastructure also needs to
tion of White City, such as Crocus Street, pedestrian       expand to maintain feelings of safety.
and vehicle space are relatively in balance. On others,
like Poppy Lane, there is no dedicated pedestrian           The White City Township undertook a recent study to
space.                                                      consider ways to improve conditions for people walk-
                                                            ing, biking, and using other active modes. The study
Public feedback has indicated that on many key              includes a lot of information about traffic speeds,
streets like Sego Lily, Galena, or Poppy, the balance is    parking utilization and other information. The study
tilted more strongly toward vehicles. Reviews of newer      proposed a series of alternatives: bike lanes preserv-
sidewalks, such as those on Galena or Carnation, have       ing the parking; buffered bike lanes eliminating the
been mixed – some comments observed that these              parking; shared use pathways eliminating the parking;
improvements did not slow down the traffic, so the          shared use path on one side – both with elimination
overall effect for pedestrians is diminished. Parking is    of parking on one side and keeping the parking but
another issue that is closely related to the pedestrian     narrowing the lanes.
environment of White City streets – it reduces visibility
of pedestrians in the roadway and takes up space that       More recently the White City Council expressed the
could be dedicated to pedestrians.                          desire for an alternative not included in the study:
                                                            adding sidewalks on both sides of the street.
                                                            Traffic calming was the most raised theme by the pub-
Additional Opportunities                                    lic with regard to Sego Lily (7 comments), with desire
                                                            for improved crossings and sidewalks also garnering
•    Streetscape elements such as trees, lighting, or
                                                            interest.
     wayfinding
                                                            Additional Opportunities
•    Pave park strips to maximize pedestrian space
                                                            •   Speed tables
•    Waterwise use of park strip space
                                                            •   Pedestrian refuge at Sego Lily/Canal Trail and
•    One-way streets
                                                                other high-use crossing locations
•    Find more off-street parking such as at churches
     or parks
•    Restrict parking to only one side of minor roads




26   Walk White City
Goal 7 – Continue to improve the network of               Goal 9 – Safely and conveniently cross major
off-street trails.                                        streets and municipal boundaries at the edge of
Off-street trails provide a special walking opportunity
                                                          White City
– the ability to walk, jog, or roll away from motor       Although the small size of the White City community
vehicle traffic, and often in nature or recreational      makes walking within it a great way to access schools
spaces. Two of White City’s greatest assets for           and parks, there are many walking destinations
pedestrians are the central spines of the White City      outside White City – the shopping areas along 700
Trail and Dimple Dell Park that provide differing but     East, 1300 East, 9400 South and 10600 South; parks
both vital off-street trail opportunities. This goal      and recreational centers like Dimple Dell Recreation
assesses how these opportunities can be expanded          Center. Therefore, it is critical to provide walkable
and improved.                                             connections to these destinations via comfortable
                                                          crossings at major roadways.
Additional Opportunities
                                                          On 10600 South, the pedestrian environment has
•   Expand the Canal Trail north to the north end and     been described by the public as narrow, close to
    maybe around Big Bear Park                            traffic, and overgrown. 10600 South lacks a Canal
•   Work with Sandy to extend trail north across 9400     Trail crossing, and people often don’t go to the light to
    South into Sandy                                      cross.

•   Create a crossing of 10600 South at the Canal         9400 South also has a long stretch without a crossing
    Trail to link to Canal Trail southward through        between 700 East and 9000 South. There has been
    Sandy                                                 discussion of a pedestrian-activated HAWK crossing
                                                          on 9400 South.
•   Improve crossings of major internal streets
    through shortening crossings, making crossing         1300 East presents several assets and opportunities
    pedestrians more visible, and slowing traffic         – the existing signalized intersection at Sego Lily and
                                                          700 East, the crossing under 1300 East at Dimple
•   Create a pathway wayfinding system                    Dell park, the pedestrian bridge just to the north, and
                                                          the signalized crossing at Ridgemark Drive (in Sandy),
•   Maintenance – pick up trash, provide trash cans       which doesn’t have a good connection to White City
                                                          but could with a short link.
•   Amenities – benches and pull-up bars
                                                          700 East also provides a signalized intersection
•   Seek more opportunities to take pedestrian
                                                          at Sego Lily and Dimple Dell crossing, as well as a
    activity off roads
                                                          connection at Carnation to Lone Peak Recreation
Goal 8 – Improve street and pathway                       Center.
intersections.                                            Additional Opportunities
Intersections are the most complex parts of the           •   Improve crossing at Carnation and 10600 South
street and transportation network, where all modes
come together, vehicles turn, and visibility is often     •   Improve crossing at Sego Lily/700 East
compromised. In White City, intersections and
other street crossings pose a range of challenges         •   Improve crossing at Sego Lily/1300 East
– intersections that see high levels of traffic such      •   Add a signalized/pedestrian activated crossing of
as for schools becoming chaotic at specific times             9400 South at Poppy Lane
of day; uncontrolled or under-controlled crossings
allowing pedestrians to cross a street; and the major     •   Add a signalized/pedestrian activated crossing of
intersections at the edges of the community that              9400 South at future Canal Trail
present an overwhelming vehicular scale and long
crossings. Several intersections have been identified     •   Create a pedestrian-activated crossing at the
by the Committee and the public as challenging for            Canal Trail and 10600 South
pedestrians: Larkspur/Carnation; 9400/Poppy; Sego
Lily / Poppy (fence restricts vision); Onyx/Poppy;        •   Create more formalized links from Dimple Dell
Galena/Poppy; Larkspur/Violet (no stop signs). Sego           underpasses to the far sides of 700 East and 1300
Lily/700 east and Sego Lily/1300 East each have seen          East
several pedestrian-involved crashes.
Additional Opportunities
•   Calm key intersections with curb extensions,
    traffic circles, consideration of more stop control                                    Walk White City 27
Goal 10 – Increase access to transit.                       Goal 12 – Enable maintenance of pedestrian
Transit stops and stations are an important walk-
                                                            infrastructure and enforcement of regulations
ing destination – ensuring the “first and last mile”        Maintenance and enforcement are two essential
of transit trips is as safe, convenient, intuitive, and     aspects of creating and ensuring a quality walking
comfortable as possible. In White City, like with Goal 9,   environment. Each of these aspects was strongly
transit stops and stations lie at or beyond the edges       recognized by the public, with each garnering 10
of the community, aligning the opportunities for this       comments in the first round of outreach. In White City,
goal with those of Goal 9. TRAX stations lie at Sego Lily   maintenance issues and challenges include neglected
(0.85 mile from the edge of White City) and at 9400         walkthroughs, overgrown sidewalks in key locations
South (1.15 miles from the edge of White City). The         like 10600 South, goatheads on the Canal Trail, and
nearest transit lies along the 9400 South corridor,         the challenges of retrofitting sidewalks into streets
where the F94 provides access east and west. The            with the current drainage infrastructure. Enforcement
220 Route heading north, at the 9400 South/Highland         challenges include parking enforcement and speeding
Drive, is about 1.8 miles away from the edge of White       enforcement.
City.
                                                            Additional Opportunities
As the Committee has noted a shuttle bus to TRAX
used to serve White City, traversing these long walking     •   Think about supporting aspects to sidewalks (i.e.
distances to high frequency transit.                            retaining walls)
Additional Opportunities                                    •   Volunteer community groups maintaining White
                                                                City Trail
•    Seek opportunities for a shuttle to TRAX – Sego
     Lily is a very direct connection                       •   Traffic regulation enforcement campaign
•    Improve crossing at 700 East and 9400 South            •   More parking regulation signage
•    Micro-mobility options such as shared scooters

Goal 11 – Carefully shape land use to improve
walkability.
Walk White City is not a land use planning effort, but
there may be very small opportunities to consider
opportunities for new land uses that complement
walkability and recreation.
Additional Opportunities
•    Utilize community pool property year-round for
     small shops/convenience store/food truck/ etc.
•    Small shops/cafes along 10600 South
•    Small concessions at key locations like along
     White City Trail or Big Bear Park
•    Food trucks at public spaces




28   Walk White City
      ALTERNATIVE SCENARIOS & CONCEPTS
5 Alternative Network Scenarios
      The Walk White City project team and Walkable Communities Committee have taken your feedback and ideas and developed concepts for
      improving the pedestrian network in White City. These concepts are organized into scenarios - connected sets of improvements that share a
      common theme. These scenarios are introduced below and presented in depth in the following displays.



                                                                                      Tell us what you think!
The Walk White City project team and Walkable                                   The following three scenarios are intended to convey
Community Committee took the analysis conclusions                               priorities,
                                                                               We  want to  establish networks
                                                                                              hear your        through
                                                                                                         feedback       complementary
                                                                                                                    on the
and community feedback and ideas summarized in                                  projects,  and present  tradeoffs (see below).
                                                                               scenarios and concepts for improving walking
part 4 and developed concepts for improving the
pedestrian network in White City. At a committee                               inScenario
                                                                                  White City.
                                                                                          1: Basic infrastructure - A primarily
workshop in March 2022, committee members                                       utilitarian approach that fills out the White City
sifted through over a hundred  opportunities printed                            pedestrian
                                                                               We’ve         network
                                                                                        developed       by providing
                                                                                                      a short questionnaire    on all
                                                                                                                     sidewalkswe
        SCENARIO 1: BASIC INFRASTRUCTURE
on strips of paper. Members identified those                                    streets on at least one side, prioritizing improvements
                                                                               hope    you will fill out as you review the ideas.
                                                                                on safe routes to school, bringing ramps to ADA
opportunities they thought would best address the                              You   can  scan the QR     code basic
                                                                                                               belowsafety-oriented
                                                                                                                       or grab a
goals.                                                                          on all intersections,   making
                                                                               hard   copy atimprovements,
                                                                                intersection   the adjacent table.    Thank you
                                                                                                                and improving    for
                                                                                                                               existing
These ideas are organized into scenarios - connected                            crossings.
                                                                               your participation!
sets of improvements that share a common theme.
                                                                                 Scenario 2: Community and school priority
                                                                                 corridors - Focus improvements on a targeted set of
                                                                                 key corridors that connect people to schools, parks,
       SCENARIO 2: PRIORITY STREET CORRIDORS
                                                                                 and to destinations outside White City.
                                                                                 Scenario 3: Expand trails - Extend, amenitize,
                                                                                 and increase access to the growing trail network
                                                                                 in White City, and extend it through targeted on-
                                                                                 street pathways. Focus streetscape, crossing, and
                                                                                 placemaking efforts on this network.
                                                                                 The following pages summarize each of the alternative
Discussing opportunities at a March 2022 committee workshop.                     scenarios with a concept map, a 3-d rendering, and a
        SCENARIO 3: EXPAND TRAILS                                                rundown of included elements.


      Tradeoffs to consider
      An important part of planning the pedestrian network is considering tradeoffs - the decisions we must make about what to prioritize. These are
      called tradeoffs because choosing to focus on one thing often means you must trade it for something less important. We see tradeoffs in terms of
      street space, money, and time and effort. The following are tradeoffs that have emerged for Walk White City and worth considering in the scenarios.



      Higher investment                                                                                                           Basic investment on
      on fewer streets                                                                                                            all streets




       Utilitarian                                                                                                                 Creating a quality
       infrastructure                                                                                                              community sense of
                                                                                                                                   place




      Adding sidewalks                                                                                                             Making it safer for
      or other dedicated                                                                                                           people to walk in the
      pedestrian space                                                                                                             roadway




      Using right-of-way                                                                                                           Working within the
      that is currently                                                                                                            narrower existing
      treated as part                                                                                                              street area
      of people’s yards
      for pedestrian
      infrastructure

                                                                                                                                  Investing in
      Investing in trails                                                                                                         sidewalks




                                                                                                                             Walk White City 29
      WalkWhiteCity
                walkwhitecity.org
Scenario 1: Basic Infrastructure

Scenario 1 proposes to focus on establishing a basic level of pedestrian infrastructure for the whole White City
community. This includes sidewalks on every street on at least one side and Americans with Disabilities-compliant
curb ramps on every corner, while addressing safety hot spots with quick-build projects and improving existing
pedestrian pass-throughs. This scenario is less focused on place-making elements like trees and art.

Aspects of Scenario 1 are:

•    Add sidewalks to the 1/3 of White City streets that don’t have them, on one side
•    Attached sidewalks, no park strip
•    Go into the yard right-of-way space; do not restrict parking
•    Add ADA ramps to all corners
•    Prioritize Safe Routes to Schools for improvements
•    Improve pass-throughs to ADA, lighting
•    Less placemaking /more utilitarian




30   Walk White City
                           Scenario 1 proposes to focus on establishing a basic level of pedestrian infrastructure for the whole White City community. This includes sidewalks
                           on every street on at least one side and Americans with Disabilities-compliant curb ramps on every corner, while addressing safety hot spots with
                           quick-build projects and improving existing pedestrian pass-throughs. This scenario is less focused on place-making elements like trees and art.


                                                                                                                                                                  QUARRY BEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SCEN
                                                                                                                                                            / SHOPPING                   / AMPHITHEATER
                                                                                  9400 South



                                                                                      /
                                                                                    SANDY
                                                                                    VILLAGE
                                                                                    SHOPPING
                                                                                    CENTER

                                                                                                                                                    /         BIG BEAR PARK



                                                                                  BELLVIEW
                                                                                  ELEMENTARY           /
                                                                                                               Galena Dr.
                                                                                                                                                                 /          GLACIER HILLS
                                                                                                                                                                            ELEMENTARY


                                                 NEIGHBORHOOD
                                                 COMMERCIAL          /                                                           n.
                                                                                                                              L
                                                                                                                   Po
                                                                                                                      p    py

                                                                                                                                    ti   mo
                                                                                                                                            ny
                                                                                                                                               L     n.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /
                                                                                                                                  An

                                                                                                                                  S eg                            tD
                                                                                                                                                                       r.                                                               /
                                                                                                                                         oL                     in
                                                                                                                                              ily
                                                                                                                                                    Dr.      Fl
                                                         LONE PEAK
                                                                     /
                                                         PARK
                                                                                                                                  /        DIMPLE DELL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ALTA
                                                                                                                                                                              EASTMONT
                                                                                                                                                                                             /                   / SHOPPING
                                                                                             AIL




                                                                                                                                           PARK
                                                                                                                          Ca




                                                                                                                                                                              MIDDLE                               CENTER
                                                                                           CITY TR




                                                                                                                             r
                                                                                                                            na
                                                                                                                              tio
                                                                                                                                  n
                                                                                                                                      Dr
                                                                                          WHITE




                                                                                                                                        .




                                                                                                                                                                                       St.
                                                                                                         .
                                                                                                  llis St


                                                                                                             Crocus St.




                                                                                                                                                                                  rble


                                                                                                                              /            ALTA VIEW
                                                                                                                                                                                  Ma
                                                                                                   y
                                                                                              Amar




                                                                                                                                           ELEMENTARY


                                                                        QUARRY BEND
                                                                                                                           Larkspur Dr.                                             SCENARIO 1
                                                                   /    SHOPPING                     / AMPHITHEATER
400 South
                                                                                                                                                                                                     1300 East
                                                                       700 East




                                                                                                                                                          Buddlea Dr.                            Street without sidewalk: Add
                                                                                                                                                                                                 sidewalk on one side
                                                                                                                                                                                                 /
      /
 SANDY BEND
QUARRY
                                                                                                         SCENARIO 1   10600 South
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Area generally lacking sidewalks
                                                                                                                                                                                                 NEIGHBORHOOD
                                                                                                                                                                                                 COMMERCIAL
 HOPPING
 VILLAGE
                            / AMPHITHEATER                                                                                            /
                                                                                                                            DIMPLE DELL                                                          Safe Route to School
  SHOPPING
  CENTER                                                                                                                    REC CENTER
                                                                                                                                       Street without sidewalk: Add                              Improve existing pedestrian
                               /                                     BIG BEAR PARK                                                     sidewalk on one side                                      pass-through

                        SCENARIO 1                                                                                                     Area generally lacking sidewalks                          New pedestrian pass-through
ELLVIEW
LEMENTARY              /
                             Galena Dr.
                                           /
                            Street without sidewalk: Add
                                                                                   GLACIER HILLS
                                                                                   ELEMENTARY                                          Safe Route to School
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Potential “hot spot” to address
                                                                                                                                       Improve existing pedestrian
G BEAR PARK                                         sidewalk on one side                                                               pass-through                                              with quick-build project
                                           n .
                                        yL
                                Po
                                      pp

                                               ti
                                                    Arean. generally lacking sidewalks
                                                   mo
                                                      ny
                                                         L
                                                                                                                                       New pedestrian pass-through
                                                                                                                                                                                             /   Key community destination

/     GLACIER HILLS
      ELEMENTARY
                                             An Safe Route to School

                                             Seg Improve existing
                                                                     r.
                                                                                                                                       Potential “hot spot” to address                       /   Other walkable destination
                                                oL                t D pedestrian
                                                   ily        l in
                                                 pass-through
                                                       Dr.   F                                                                         with quick-build project
                           Figure 5.1: Scenario 1 map.
                                                    New pedestrian pass-through
                                             /                 /                                                                       KeyALTA
                                                                                                                                           community destination

                           WalkWhiteCity
                                                     DIMPLE DELL
                                                              //                     EASTMONT                                          / SHOPPING
             AIL




                                                     PARK
                                      Ca




                                                                                     MIDDLE                                                    CENTER
           CITY TR




                                         r




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Walk White City 31
                                        na




 r.                           Potential “hot spot” to address                                                                          Other walkable destination
                                          tio




                                                 walkwhitecity.org
                                               n
                                                 Dr




                                                    with quick-build project
          WHITE




                                                   .




                                                                                                 t.
                                                                                             le S
                     St.

                            cus St.
                  ryllis




                                                                                          arb




                                                    Key
                                                    ALTAcommunity
                                                         VIEW     destination
     SCENARIO 1 BASIC INFRASTRUCTURE
     Attached sidewalks




     Attached sidewalks are connected to the roadway and gutter and do not
     have a landscaped buffer.


     Safe & accessible pass-throughs
                                           White City has several pedestrian
                                           “pass-throughs” that allow
                                           people walking and rolling to
                                           get through a big block to better
                                           access a destination such as a
                                           school. These can be improved
                                           with lighting and Americans with
                                           Disabilities Act (ADA)-compliant
                                           access.



     Smaller curb radii & ADA curb ramps




     Many of White City’s street corners lack pedestrian space and accessible
     ways to enter and exit the intersection. Extending pedestrian space at
     corners with a smaller curb radius allows for directional curb ramps,
     shorter crossings, and slower vehicle turns.


     Inexpensive intersection improvements at hot spots




     At crossing and intersection locations that have been found to be unsafe and have pedestrian-involved
     crashes, simple inexpensive “quick build” projects can help slow traffic and make pedestrians more visible.


     Speed bumps
                                           Speed bumps are one way the
                                           White City community currently
                                           slows traffic.




32   Walk White City


     WalkWhiteCity
SCENARIO 1 BASIC INFRASTRUCTURE

Example street



            Sidewalks largely built                Smaller curb radius creates
            behind existing gutters, in            more pedestrian space,
            right-of-way currently being           slows trafﬁc turning, and
            used for yards                         allows for directional curb
                                                   ramps




            Sidewalks on every street              Directional curb ramps                     Attached style sidewalks


 Figure 5.2: Example rendering of how Scenario 1 elements could play out on a sample White City block.




                                                                                                         Walk White City 33
Scenario 2: Community and School Priority Corridors

Scenario 2 focuses on a small set of street corridors that the community has clearly identified as priorities for
walking improvements: Sego Lily Drive, Poppy Lane, Galena Drive, Carnation Drive, and Larkspur Drive. In addition,
there is a second tier of priority streets. These priority corridors would all be brought to the level of having
sidewalks and park strips on both sides. Crossings for these priority corridors would also be improved.

Aspects of Scenario 2 are:

•    Improve a small set of community-identified corridors to a high level of pedestrian comfort and safety, through
     addition of dedicated space, streetscape, traffic calming, and placemaking: Sego Lily; Carnation; Larkspur;
     Poppy; Galena.
•    Set of secondary priority corridors – Emerald, Onyx, Amaryllis, Antimony, Crocus, Flint, Marble
•    Create additional pedestrian space through parking restrictions, i.e. on one side
•    Detached sidewalks on both sides on the high priority corridors
•    Street trees in the park strips
•    Waterwise park strips
•    School area traffic calming focus on Larkspur and Galena – longer bulbouts into street narrowing roadway and
     increasing pedestrian space
•    For remaining streets, focus on parking restrictions and making streets slower
•    Improve crossings on major corridors – Carnation-Larkspur, Sego Lily-1300 and Sego Lily-700, Poppy-9400
•    Medium placemaking - focus at gateways, schools, and park – Larkspur/Carnation; Galena/Poppy




34   Walk White City
                           Scenario 2 focuses on a small set of street corridors that the community has clearly identified as priorities for walking improvements: Sego Lily
                           Drive, Poppy Lane, Galena Drive, Carnation Drive, and Larkspur Drive. In addition, there is a second tier of priority streets. These priority corridors
                           would all be brought to the level of having sidewalks and park strips on both sides, as well as additional infrastructure such as street lighting.
                           Crossings for these priority corridors would also be improved.


                                                                                                                                                                    QUARRY BEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SCEN
                                                                                                                                                              / SHOPPING                   / AMPHITHEATER
                                                                                   9400 South



                                                                                       /
                                                                                     SANDY
                                                                                     VILLAGE
                                                                                     SHOPPING
                                                                                     CENTER

                                                                                                                                                      /         BIG BEAR PARK



                                                                                   BELLVIEW
                                                                                   ELEMENTARY            /
                                                                                                                 Galena Dr.
                                                                                                                                                                   /          GLACIER HILLS
                                                                                                                                                                              ELEMENTARY


                                                  NEIGHBORHOOD
                                                  COMMERCIAL           /                                                           n.
                                                                                                                          yL
                                                                                                                     Po
                                                                                                                        pp

                                                                                                                                     tim
                                                                                                                                         o      ny
                                                                                                                                                   L   n.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /
                                                                                                                                   An

                                                                                                                                    S eg                            tD
                                                                                                                                                                         r.                                                              /
                                                                                                                                           oL                     in
                                                                                                                                                ily
                                                                                                                                                      Dr.      Fl
                                                          LONE PEAK
                                                                       /
                                                          PARK
                                                                                                                                   /        DIMPLE DELL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ALTA
                                                                                                                                                                                EASTMONT
                                                                                                                                                                                               /                  / SHOPPING
                                                                                              AIL




                                                                                                                                            PARK
                                                                                                                            Ca




                                                                                                                                                                                MIDDLE                              CENTER
                                                                                            CITY TR




                                                                                                                               r
                                                                                                                              na
                                                                                                                                tio
                                                                                                                                    n
                                                                                                                                        Dr
                                                                                           WHITE




                                                                                                                                          .




                                                                                                                                                                                         St.
                                                                                                           .
                                                                                                    llis St


                                                                                                               Crocus St.




                                                                                                                                                                                    rble


                                                                                                                               /            ALTA VIEW
                                                                                                                                                                                    Ma
                                                                                                    y
                                                                                               Amar




                                                                                                                                            ELEMENTARY



                                                                       QUARRY BEND
                                                                                                                             Larkspur Dr.
                                                                                                                                                                                    SCENARIO 2
                                                                 /     SHOPPING                    / AMPHITHEATER                                                                                     1300 East
                                                                        700 East




00 South
                                                                                                                                                            Buddlea Dr.

                                                                                                                                                                                                   /Primary priority street
    /                                                                                                                   10600 South                                                                 NEIGHBORHOOD
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Secondary priority street
                                                                                                                                                                                                    COMMERCIAL

                                                                                                      SCENARIO 2                        /
SANDY
VILLAGE                                                                                                                       DIMPLE DELL                                                          Improved major street
UARRY BEND
SHOPPING                                                                                                                      REC CENTER                                                           crossing
 OPPING
CENTER                     /       AMPHITHEATER

                           /                                          BIG BEAR PARK                                                                                                                Improved minor street

                       SCENARIO 2                                                                                                       Primary priority street
                                                                                                                                                                                                   crossing

                                                                                                                                                                                                   Future major street crossing
LLVIEW
EMENTARY             /        /
                            Galena Dr.
                                                                                   GLACIER HILLS
                                                                                   ELEMENTARY
                                                                                                                                        Secondary priority street
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Community intersection: traffic
                                                       Primary priority street                                                          Improved major street
                                                                                                                                        crossing                                                   calming and public art
                                       L  n.           Secondary priority street
BEAR PARK
                              Po
                                 p  py

                                             tim
                                                   on
                                                     yL
                                                        n.
                                                       Improved major street
                                                                                                                                        Improved minor street
                                                                                                                                        crossing                                         /         Key community destination
                                           An
                                                       crossing
                                                                        r.                                                              Future major street crossing                       /       Other walkable destination
/   GLACIER HILLS
    ELEMENTARY
                                           S eg
                                          Improved minor
                                        ily
                                            Dr.
                           Figure 5.3: Scenario 2
                                          crossing
                                                  oL
                                                   Fl
                                                  map.
                                                      in
                                                        tD street
                                                                                                                                        Community intersection: traffic

                                           / Future major street crossing                                                               calming and public art

                           WalkWhiteCity//
                                                                                                                                            ALTA
                                                   DIMPLE DELL                       EASTMONT                                           / SHOPPING
           AIL




                                                   PARK                                                                                 Key community destination
                                   Ca




                                                                                     MIDDLE                                                 CENTER                                                                 Walk White City 35
         CITY TR




                                      r
                                     na




                                                 Community intersection: traffic
                                               walkwhitecity.org
                                       tio
                                           n




                                                       calming and public art
                                               Dr
        WHITE




                                                 .




                                                                                              St.




                                                                                                               /                        Other walkable destination
                       .
                llis St


                           s St.




                                                                                         rble
SCENARIO 2 PRIORITY STREET CORRIDORS
Detached sidewalks




Detached sidewalks are separated from the roadway and gutter by a landscaped buffer.


Bulb-outs and pedestrian refuges




Bulb-outs are extensions of pedestrian space into the roadway at pedestrian crossings. Pedestrian refuges are
islands in the middle of the roadway at pedestrian crossings. Both shorten crossing distances and slow traffic,
and can provide aesthetic benefits as well.


Street trees




Street trees are usually placed between the sidewalk and roadway and provide multiple community benefits,
including a buffer from traffic, shade, and aesthetics.


Parking restrictions
                                      Restricting street parking on one
                                      side allows space for pedestrians
                                      to walk more safely in the
                                      roadway.




Community art at intersections




Street intersections are great places for community art such as street murals and sculptures. Placing art at
strategic intersections throughout the community, especially in concert with other improvements like bulb-outs
and landscaping, can help slow traffic and create human-scale places.
36    Walk White City

WalkWhiteCity
SCENARIO 2 PRIORITY STREET CORRIDORS

Example street




            Sidewalks built into one
            side of on-street parking,
            but also right-of-way            Bulb-outs shorten crossings
            currently being used for         and slow trafﬁc at
            yards where needed.              intersections             Street trees in park strips




            Sidewalks focused on                   Non-priority streets make                 Detached style sidewalks
            priority streets. On these             space for pedestrians by
            streets, they are built on             restricting parking on one
            both sides                             side


  Figure 5.4: Example rendering of how Scenario 2 elements could play out on a sample White City block.




                                                                                                          Walk White City 37

WalkWhiteCity
Scenario 3: Expand Trails

Scenario 3 focuses on expanding the most popular part of the pedestrian network: White City’s pathways. The
scenario proposes expanding and improving the White City Trail corridor, better linking it to the north and south;
better incorporating the Dimple Dell trail corridor into the community’s pedestrian network; and building on-street
trails on a selected set of streets that provide important connections.

Aspects of Scenario 3 include:

•    Focus improvements on and extend White City/Canal Trail
•    Integrate paved trails into Dimple Dell corridor to make them a bigger part of the active transportation
     network
•    Build trail-like paths on wider streets –Larkspur, Galena, Flint, Marble with streetscape/trees/landscape
•    Improve White City trail crossings with raised crossings
•    Grade-separated crossing at trail and 10600 South
•    Long-term bridge over Dimple Dell at Marble/Larkspur
•    Most placemaking
•    Create a network of micro-parks aligned along White City Trail and Dimple Dell
•    Wayfinding system focused on trails
•    Paved switchback paths into Dimple Dell from Carnation, WC Trail, Marble, Larkspur
•    Improve Dimple Dell crossings under 700 and 1300 East
•    Add access points to WC trail
•    For streets identified as the priority streets in Scenario 2, option to convert these to open street design, with
     extremely low speeds, traffic calming, parking restrictions – people are priority, cars are guests
•    Leave other streets largely alone, with small safety improvements




38   Walk White City
                              Scenario 3 focuses on expanding the most popular part of the pedestrian network: White City’s pathways. The scenario proposes expanding
                              and improving the White City Trail corridor, better linking it to the north and south; better incorporating the Dimple Dell trail corridor into the
                              community’s pedestrian network; and building on-street trails on a selected set of streets that provide important connections.



                                                                                                                                                                           QUARRY BEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SCEN
                                                                                                                                                                      / SHOPPING                  / AMPHITHEATER
                                                                                           9400 South



                                                                                              /
                                                                                             SANDY
                                                                                             VILLAGE
                                                                                             SHOPPING
                                                                                             CENTER

                                                                                                                                                            /          BIG BEAR PARK



                                                                                           BELLVIEW
                                                                                           ELEMENTARY          /
                                                                                                                       Galena Dr.
                                                                                                                                                                          /          GLACIER HILLS
                                                                                                                                                                                     ELEMENTARY


                                                       NEIGHBORHOOD                                                                                                                             Outside White City
                                                       COMMERCIAL         /                                                              n.
                                                                                                                                      L
                                                                                                                              p    py                        n.
                                                                                                                           Po                         ny
                                                                                                                                                         L
                                                                                                                                                o
                                                                  Outside                                                                   tim
                                                                                                                                          An
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /
                                                                  White City

                                                                                                                                                                                r.
                                                                                                                                          S eg
                                                                                                                                                 oL                        tD
                                                                                                                                                                         in
                                                                                                                                                      ily
                                                                                                                                                            Dr.       Fl
                                                              LONE PEAK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /
                                                                          /
                                                              PARK
                                                                                                                                          /       DIMPLE DELL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ALTA
                                                                                                                                                                                       EASTMONT
                                                                                                                                                                                                      /                          / SHOPPING
                                                                                                     AIL




                                                                                                                                                  PARK
                                                                                                                                  Ca




                                                                                                                                                                                       MIDDLE                                       CENTER
                                                                                                   CITY TR




                                                                                                                                     r
                                                                                                                                    na
                                                                                                                                      tio
                                                                                                                                          n
                                                                                                                                              Dr
                                                                                                  WHITE




                                                                                                                                                .




                                                                                                                                                                                                St.
                                                                                                                 .
                                                                                                          llis St


                                                                                                                     Crocus St.




                                                                                                                                                                                           rble


                                                                                                                                      /           ALTA VIEW
                                                                                                                                                                                           Ma
                                                                                                           y




                                                                                                                                                                                                 SCENARIO 3
                                                                                                      Amar




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Outside
                                                                                                                                                  ELEMENTARY                                                                     White City

                                                                                  QUARRY BEND
                                                                          / SHOPPING                            / AMPHITHEATER
                                                                                                                     Larkspur Dr.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Off-street paved trail
9400 South
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Dimple Dell trail with accessibility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1300 East
                                                                           700 East




                                                                                                                                                                  Buddlea Dr.                                        improvements
    /
UARRY BEND
  SANDY
                                                                                                               SCENARIO 3                                                                                    / On-street paved trail
HOPPING
  VILLAGE                     /       AMPHITHEATER                                                                            10600 South                                                                      NEIGHBORHOOD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ideal trail link outside
                                                                                                                                                                                                               COMMERCIAL
  SHOPPING                                                                                                                                    /
                                                                                                                                              Off-street paved trail                                                 White City
  CENTER                                                                                                                            DIMPLE DELL

                                  /                                            BIG BEAR PARK                                        REC Dimple
                                                                                                                                        CENTER Dell trail with accessibility
                                                                                                                                              improvements
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Existing grade-separated
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     crossing: bridge or tunnel

                       SCENARIO 3                                                                                                             On-street paved trail                                                  Future grade-separated
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     crossing: Bridge or tunnel
 BELLVIEW
 ELEMENTARY            /                      /
                           Off-street paved trail
                                     Galena Dr.
                                                                                             GLACIER HILLS
                                                                                             ELEMENTARY
                                                                                                                                              Ideal trail link outside
                                                                                                                                              White City                                                             Improved at-grade trail crossing
                                                                                         Outside White City Existing grade-separated
BEAR PARK                                              Dimple Dell trail with accessibility                                                                                                                          Future at-grade trail crossing
                                                 n.improvements                                             crossing: bridge or tunnel
                                              yL
                                            pp               Ln
                                                                .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Raised crossing of street
                                         Po
                                                          ny
                                                   On-street      paved trail                                                                 Future grade-separated
                                                        o
                                                    tim                                                                                       crossing: Bridge or tunnel
/   GLACIER HILLS
    ELEMENTARY
                                        SWhite
                                          ego
                                                  An

                                                   City
                                                       Ideal trail link outside
                                                                                tD
                                                                                      r.                                                      Improved at-grade trail crossing                        /              Key community destination
                                              Lily                            in
                        Outside White City         Dr.                     Fl
                                                       Existing grade-separated                                                               Future at-grade trail crossing                          /              Other walkable destination
                             Figure 5.5: crossing:
                                         Scenario 3bridge
                                                    map. or tunnel
                                                       /
                                                       Future grade-separated
                                                           DIMPLE DELL
                                                                                                                                              RaisedALTA
                                                                                                                                                     crossing of street
                                                                /                EASTMONT                                                         / SHOPPING
                             WalkWhiteCity
                             AIL




                                                           PARK Bridge or tunnel MIDDLE
                                                       crossing:
                                                Ca




                                                                /                                                                                            CENTER
                     CITY TR




                                                   r




                                                                                                                                              Key community destination
                                                  na
                                                    tio




                               Improved at-grade trail crossing                                                                                                                                                                   Walk White City 39
                                                       n
                                                        Dr




                                                   walkwhitecity.org
              WHITE




                                                          .




                                                                                                           St.




                                                                                                                      /                       Other walkable destination
                   .
            llis St


                                   Crocus St.




                                                       Future at-grade trail crossing
                                                                                                      rble




                                                   /       ALTA VIEW
                                                                                                    Ma
        mary




                                                                                                                                                      Outside
                                                               ALTA
                                                           ELEMENTARY
SCENARIO 3 EXPAND TRAILS
On-street trails




On-street trails are pathways for people walking and biking and other non-motorized users - these paths are
located on streets, often in place of a sidewalk. Examples shown above are from Utah communities.

Off-street trail amenities and improvements




Off-street trails such as the White City Trail can be enhanced with a range of amenities such as a bike
repair station, dog waste bag dispenser, benches, and lighting.


Raised crossings




Raised crossings allow people to cross streets at the level of sidewalks and also create a traffic-calming effect.

Micro-parks




Micro-parks are small recreational spots tucked along streets or paths. With both the White City Trail and
Dimple Dell Regional Park corridors, White City has ample opportunities for micro-parks.


Wayfinding




“Wayfinding” means helping people navigate their way around their community. Wayfinding elements can be
simple directional and distance signs but can also be placed on street surfaces or celebrate community identity.


40    Walk White City

WalkWhiteCity
SCENARIO 3 EXPAND TRAILS

Example street




           Path built into one side of        Trail amenity areas at some          Low-water landscape
           on-street parking                  corners                              demonstration and street
                                                                                   trees




            On-street trails on just a              Raised crossings          Non-priority streets largely
            few key streets to link to the                                    left alone but community
            off-street trail network                                          option to initiate trafﬁc
                                                                              calming and quick-build
                                                                              open streets


  Figure 5.6: Example rendering of how Scenario 3 elements could play out on a sample White City block.




                                                                                                          Walk White City 41

WalkWhiteCity
     Community feedback on alternative scenarios
     An online survey in May and June 2022 asked for residents’ feedback on the three different pedestrian
     network scenarios for the Walk White City plan. Residents were informed through email, mailed postcards,
     social media posts, and during an open house event where residents had the opportunity to discuss each
     scenario in more detail with the project team. The survey received a total of 177 responses. The following
     summary provides an overview of the feedback received by White City residents.
     The following are the key takeaways from the community feedback:

     Overall, on average, the scenarios were                        Sidewalks are strongly desired on all
     all relatively popular. The scenarios                          streets. However, some aspects of the
     garnered roughly equal ratings, and there                      scenarios seem to rise to the top. Sidewalks
     was nothing wildly different about answer                      simply seem to be the most desired element.
     distribution for each – for each the highest                   There seems to be the most desire to have
     category was “strongly like” and the next was                  sidewalk investments distributed on all streets
     “somewhat like.” These overall numbers seem                    in White City. Answers to questions about the
     to indicate generally people like the proposed                 key tradeoffs in the scenarios reinforce this
     improvements – the average scores for all are                  conclusion.
     just below “somewhat like.”




                                                                    Figure 5.8: Focus of investment - on priority streets or
      Figure 5.7: Distribution of ratings of the three scenarios.   throughout the community.




                Figure 5.9: Most popular pedestrian elements.
42   Walk White City
There is also a desire to prioritize pedestrian
routes. There is support for prioritizing routes that
include Safe Routes to School, destination access, trail
access, and ADA improvements.
Aesthetics and placemaking are also important.
There is a second tier of preferences that includes
aesthetics and placemaking - landscaping, trees, light-
ing, and trail amenities are also important.
Yard vs. parking: People seem to prefer sidewalks
going into the part of the right-of-way that has been
traditionally treated as their defacto yard space rather
than sacrificing parking.




Figure 5.10: Where in the street to make space for pedestrians.



Detached and attached: People do seem to want a
mix of attached and detached sidewalks.




Figure 5.11: Preference for detached vs. attached sidewalks.



A two-tiered approach: There does seem to be
support for a two-tiered approach: basic attached
sidewalks on one side on all streets that don’t have
them, and then a special treatment on some priority
corridors, with detached sidewalks or trails, trees,
pedestrian-scale lighting, waterwise landscaping,
raised crossings, some parking restrictions to make
more room, and perhaps even microparks and other
amenities.




                                                                  Walk White City 43
6 Pedestrian Network Concept
The Pedestrian Network Concept is the overarching       The Pedestrian Network Concept is comprised of
framework for the Walk White City plan’s                six elements. Each element describes a facet of the
recommendations. The Pedestrian Network is the          network. The elements are:
preferred alternative scenario developed from the
three scenarios presented in the previous phase of      1 - Bring every street to a basic level of
the project. The project team believes this network     infrastructure: a sidewalk on at least one side, ADA
concept combines the best aspects of each of the        curb ramps, and smaller curb radii. This element also
scenarios and best represents the community’s           focuses on implementing the Safe Routes to School /
opinion on making the key tradeoffs. The network is     SNAP Plan prioritized routes.
shown on the following page in Figure 6.1.
                                                        2 - Prioritize a small set of key corridors for
The project team forged this preferred scenario         higher-quality pedestrian infrastructure, streetscape,
in collaboration with the Walkable Community            and placemaking.
Committee in response to community feedback and
                                                        3 - Enhance and expand the trail network by
the Committee’s interpretation of it; team evaluation
                                                        enhancing existing assets like the White City Trail and
of the scenarios; the ways projects can best fit
                                                        Dimple Dell Park while adding new trails in the form of
together and complement one another; and best
                                                        a loop created by adding a series of on-street trails.
practices.
                                                        4 - Improve key nodes throughout White City for
The Pedestrian Network Concept seeks to:
                                                        safer crossings, traffic calming, improved streetscape,
•    Achieve the Walk White City goals in a balanced    and sense of place.
     way;
                                                        5 - Improve external pedestrian crossing across
•    Convey the community’s priorities;                 major streets surrounding White City through
                                                        enhanced and new crossings.
•    Establish networks through complementary
     projects;                                          6 - Complement infrastructure with supporting
                                                        maintenance and enforcement practices.
•    Make tradeoffs; and
                                                        Each element has a series of objectives and map
•    Shape projects.                                    elements fleshing out its recommendations. The first
                                                        three elements also have project concepts for an
                                                        example corridor.




44   Walk White City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           QUARRY BEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      / SHOPPING                  / AMPHITHEATER
                                                                                                                              9400 South                                                                                                                                                      NE
                                                                                                                                  /
                                                                                                                                SANDY
                                                                                                                                VILLAGE
                                                                                                                                SHOPPING
                                                                                                                                CENTER

                                                                                                                                                                                                            /          BIG BEAR PARK



                                                                                                                              BELLVIEW
                                                                                                                              ELEMENTARY                     /
                                                                                                                                                                      Galena Dr.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /          GLACIER HILLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ELEMENTARY


                                                                                             NEIGHBORHOOD
                                                                                             COMMERCIAL          /                                                                      n.
                                                                                                                                                                                     L
                                                                                                                                                                                  py

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PEDESTRIAN
                                                                                                                                                                             p                               n.
                                                                                                                                                                          Po                             ny
                                                                                                                                                                                                            L
                                                                                                                                                                                            ti        mo

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PEDESTRIAN
                                                                                                                  QUARRY BEND                                                             An
                                                                                                             /                                        /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PEDESTRIAN
                                                                                                                                                                   AMPHITHEATER

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NETWORK VISION
                                                                                                                  SHOPPING
                                                                                                                  QUARRY BEND                                                                                                   r.
                                                                                                                                                                 S eg                                                      tD
                                                                                                             /                                        / AMPHITHEATER  oL                                                 in

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NETWORK VISION        VISION
 South                                                                                                            SHOPPING
                                                                                                                  QUARRY BEND                                            il                                           Fl
                                                                                                             /                                        / AMPHITHEATER y Dr.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NETWORK
                                                                                                                  SHOPPING
 South                                                                                               LONE PEAK
                                                                                                               /
 South
 /
                                                                                                     PARK
                                                                                                                                                                                         /              DIMPLE DELL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Street without sidewalk: Add
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ALTA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              / Street
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EASTMONT       / on onesidewalk: SHOPPING
                                                                                                                                                AIL




                                                                                                                                                                                                        PARK                                    sidewalk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Street without     side   Add
                                                                                                                                                                                 Ca




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MIDDLE
 /
 NDY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CENTER
                                                                                                                                           CITY TR




                                                                                                                                                                                    r
                                                                                                                                                                                   na




 LAGE
/NDY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   without
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Priority
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                sidewalk corridor:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          on one   side Add
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                sidewalk:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Sidewalks
                                                                                                                                                                                     tio
                                                                                                                                                                                            n




 OPPING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  sidewalk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         on        on one side
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             bothcorridor:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   sides
                                                                                                                                                                                                Dr




 LAGE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Priority           Sidewalks
                                                                                                                                        WHITE




                                                                                                                                                                                                  .




NDY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                St.
NTER
                                                                                                                                                               .




                                                                                                     /
                                                                                                                                                        llis St


                                                                                                                                                                    Crocus St.




OPPING
LAGE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Priority corridor: Sidewalks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           rble
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         on both sides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Off-street  trail
                                                                                                                                                      PEDESTRIAN
                                                                                                                 BIG BEAR PARK

                                                                                                                                                         /
NTER
OPPING                                                                                                                                                                                                  ALTA VIEW                                        on both sides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ma




                                                                                                     /
                                                                                                                                                        y
                                                                                                                                                   Amar




NTER                                                                                                            BIG BEAR PARK                                                                           ELEMENTARY                                       Off-street  trail
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         On-street trail
                                                                                                     /
  BEND
                                         / AMPHITHEATER                                                         BIG BEAR PARK                                                                                                                            Off-street trail
                                                                                                                                                      NETWORK VISION
NG
VIEW
 ENTARY                                  /                                                                        /           GLACIER HILLS
                                                                                                                              ELEMENTARY
                                                                                                                                                                                  Larkspur Dr.                                                           On-street trail
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Designated    Safe Route to School
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         On-street trail
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Designated Safe Route to School
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /
VIEW
 ENTARY
 IEW                                     / Galena Dr.
                                         / Galena Dr.                                                             /
                                                                                                                  /
                                                                                                                              GLACIER HILLS
                                                                                                                              ELEMENTARY
                                                                                                                              GLACIER HILLS                                                                                                              Designated    Safe Route to School
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Raised crossing                          /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1300 East
                                                                                                                   700 East




ENTARY                                                                                                                        ELEMENTARY
                                                                                                    Buddlea Dr.
                                                                                                                                                                                      Street without sidewalk: Add                                        Raised  crossing
             Galena LDr.n.                                                         sidewalk  on  one  side                                                                                                                                                New major      street crossing
                    py                    .                                                                                                                                                                                                              Raised crossing
               Po
                  p
                        n .         ny Ln
                                                                                   Priority corridor: Sidewalks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /New major street crossing
                     yL          mo                                                                                                                                                                                                                       New grade-separated crossing
                  pp n. nti              n.                                   10600                                                                                                                                                                      New   major street crossing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NEIGHBORHOOD
               Po py L A               L
                                    ny .                                           onSouth
                                                                                       both sides
                                                        PEDESTRIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          COMMERCIAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          New grade-separated crossing
              Po
                 p
                             t i mo y Ln                      .                                                                                                                                   /
                         Sengimon
                         A                                   r
                                                                                   Off-street                                                                                                                                                             “Hotgrade-separated
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         New    spot” to address crossing
PARK                        t o                         in
                                                          tD                     DIMPLE  DELL trail
                        An Lily D                   Fl        .                                                                                                                                                                                           with  traffic  calming
                                         r.                  r                   REC  CENTER                                                                                                                                                              “Hot spot” to    address
                                                        NETWORK               VISION
                         S eg                             tD                       On-street trail
                                o
                        S eg Lily D                     in r.                                                                                                                                                                                            “Hot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          with spot”
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                traffictocalming
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           address
                                                    Fl t D

LACIER HILLS Figure 6.1: Walk
                              oL
                                  ily
                                      Dr.
                                         r.
                                                   Fl
                                                      i n
                                                          /
                                            White City Pedestrian Network Concept. Designated
                                                                                          ALTA Safe Route to School
                                                                                                 DIMPLE DELL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Improve
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         with        existing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               traffic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          pass-through
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        calmingpedestrian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                          /Street without sidewalk: Add /                                       EASTMONT                                                 / SHOPPING                                                       Improve existing pedestrian
                                            AYILTRAIL




 EMENTARY                                                                                        PARK
                                                          /
                                                                                                                                                                                            ALTA                                                         Improve    existing pedestrian
                                                                              Ca




                                                                                                                                MIDDLE                                                      CENTER                                                        pass-through
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          New    pedestrian    pass-through
                                                                                                 DIMPLE DELL
                                                                                 r




                                                                                         /
                                                                             na rna na




                                                                                                                                EASTMONT                                                 / ALTA
                                                                                                                                                                                      Raised crossing
                                                                                                                                                                                            SHOPPING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         pass-through
                                                                               tio




                                                                                                 PARK DELL
                                                                                                DIMPLE
                                                                                         /
                                          RIT




                                                                                 Ca Ca




                                                                                                                                MIDDLE
                                                                                                                                EASTMONT                                                / SHOPPING
                                                                                                                                                                                            CENTER                                                        New pedestrian pass-through
                                                                                   n




                                                            sidewalk on one side
                                TITRYEATCIL




                                                                                     Dr




                                                                                                PARK                            MIDDLE
                                                                                       .




                                                                                                                                                                                          CENTERstreet crossing                                          New pedestrian pass-through
                                                                                                                                                         .
                                                                                         tio tio




                                                                                                                                                                                      New major
                                                                                                                                           Slte. St le St
                                                                                          r
                             YHIT
                 t. Sryt.llis St.




                                                            Priority corridor: Sidewalks
                                                                   St. St.


                                                                                            n nD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Micro-park opportunity
                           EWC




                                                                                             Dr r.




                                                                                                                                     rblaerb Marb
                        CIT




                                                                                                .
                                                                Crocus




                                                                                                                                                   .




                                                          /onOff-street
                                                                both sides
                     E IT




                                                                                          ALTA VIEW                                                                                   New grade-separated crossing                                       Micro-park opportunity
                 ITH
                   a




                                                                                          ELEMENTARY
          WHW

              Sis
               m


                                                           Crocus
                                                               St.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Micro-park opportunity
                                                          /
        llrisyll




                                                                        trail             ALTA VIEW
             A




                                                                                                                                   Ma M
                                                        Crocus




                                                          / On-street trail                                                                                                                                                                      /
      ya




                                                                                          ELEMENTARY
                                                                                         ALTA VIEW                                                                                    “Hot spot” to address
    arm




                                                                                 Larkspur Dr.                                                                                                                                                            Key community destination
  AmA




                                                                                         ELEMENTARY                                                                                   with traffic calming
                                                                                 Larkspur Dr.
                                                                                LarkspurDesignated
                                                                                         Dr.       Safe Route to School
                                                                                                                                                                                      Improve existing pedestrian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Key community destination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Other
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Key   walkable destination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             community  destination
                                                                                                                                                                                           EastEast




                                                                                                     ALTA
                                                                                                        Buddlea Dr.                                                                   pass-through                                               /       Other walkable destination
 EASTMONT
                                                        /                                      / SHOPPING                                                                                                                                         /      Other walkable destination
                                                                                                                                                                                          1300




 MIDDLE                                                                                       Raised crossing                                                                                                                                               Walk White City 45
                                                                                                     CENTERBuddlea Dr.                                                      / New pedestrian pass-through
                                                                                                                                                                                         East
                                                                                                                                                                                      1300




                                                                                New major street crossing   Buddlea Dr.
                                                                         10600 South                                                                                        /NEIGHBORHOOD
                                                                                                                                                                                    1300




                                                                                                                                                                            /COMMERCIAL
                               t.




                                                                                           /
                           le S




                                                                                                                                                                             NEIGHBORHOOD
                                                                                                                                                                               Micro-park opportunity
Element 1: Basic infrastructure                                                                                                                                                     QUARRY BEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DRAFT P
                                                                                                                                                                              / SHOPPING                     / AMPHITHEATER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SCENARI
The first element of the Walk White City pedestrian
                                                                                           9400 South


network is basic infrastructure. The community was                                            /                                                                                                                                                             Street with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            sidewalk o
clear in its desire for every White City street to have                                      SANDY
                                                                                             VILLAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Priority co
a sidewalk, on at least one side. Other aspects are
                                                                                             SHOPPING
                                                                                             CENTER                                                                                                                                                         sides

equally as vital - adding and updating pedestrian                                                                                                                     /         BIG BEAR PARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Off-street

ramps and existing sidewalks, and creating safer                                                                                                                                                                                                            On-street

corner environments in general.
                                                                                           BELLVIEW
                                                                                           ELEMENTARY                  /
                                                                                                                                 Galena Dr.
                                                                                                                                                                                   /          GLACIER HILLS
                                                                                                                                                                                              ELEMENTARY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Raised cro
                                                                NEIGHBORHOOD
                                                                COMMERCIAL      /
Objectives:
                                                                                                                                                   n.                                                                                                       New majo
                                                                                                                                          yL
                                                                                                                                        pp                             n.
                                                                                                                                     Po                       yL
                                                                                                                                                            on                                                                                              New grade
                                                                                                                                                     tim
                                                                                                                                                   An


1.1 Build sidewalks as opportunities arise through                                                                                                  S eg
                                                                                                                                                           oL
                                                                                                                                                                ily
                                                                                                                                                                      Dr.      Fl
                                                                                                                                                                                  in
                                                                                                                                                                                    tD
                                                                                                                                                                                         r.                                                                 “Hot spot”
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            with traffic
street or utility projects, demand from individual                  LONE PEAK
                                                                                /
blocks or street corridors, or segments free from
                                                                    PARK
                                                                                                                                                   /        DIMPLE DELL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ALTA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Improve e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            pass-throu
                                                                                                                                                                                                EASTMONT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /                   / SHOPPING




                                                                                                                         AIL
                                                                                                                                                            PARK




                                                                                                                                            Ca
                                                                                                                                                                                                MIDDLE                                 CENTER               New pede
obstacles.




                                                                                                                 CITY TR




                                                                                                                                               r
                                                                                                                                              na
                                                                                                                                                tio
                                                                                                                                                    n
                                                                                                                                                        Dr
                                                                                                          WHITE




                                                                                                                                                          .




                                                                                                                                                                                                           St.
                                                                                                               .
                                                                                                       yllis St


                                                                                                                               Crocus St.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Micro-par




                                                                                                                                                                                                      rble
1.2 Sidewalks on these streets will generally be basic                                                                                         /            ALTA VIEW




                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ma
                                                                                                  Amar
                                                                                                                                                            ELEMENTARY

six-foot attached sidewalks.                                                                                                                 Larkspur Dr.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /     Key comm

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /     Other wal
1.3 Build sidewalks in the “yard” space of the right-of-




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1300 East
                                                                                700 East
                                                                                                                                                                            Buddlea Dr.

way behind the curb - moving or replacing utilities,                                                                                                                                                                 /
fences/walls, and improvements to the extent                                                                                            10600 South                                                                  NEIGHBORHOOD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COMMERCIAL
                                                                                                                                                        /
feasible.                                                                                                                                     DIMPLE DELL
                                                                                                                                              REC CENTER



1.4 In sidewalk projects, replace rolled gutter with                                                                                                                                                                                              0       0.13   0.25

highback curb and gutter.
                                                           Figure 6.2: Element 1 highlights.
1.5 Link sidewalks with curb ramps adhering to the
requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act
(ADA).
1.6 Update sidewalks and ramps to adhere to the
ADA.
1.7 In sidewalk projects, rebuild corners of two local
streets with smaller curb radii as feasible.
1.8 Prioritize sidewalk construction on routes
established by the Canyons School District schools’
SNAP Plans.
1.9 Implement minimally intrusive vertical traffic
calming devices such as speed lumps in limited
applications, in response to observed “hot spots” and
citizen requests.




                                                           While there is a modest part of White City with streets still
                                                           without sidewalks (top), Carnation Drive provides an example of
                                                           how sidewalks can be built on them (bottom).




46   Walk White City
Example concept: Peony Way
Many of the objectives of Element 1 are explored and
demonstrated in the following concept for Peony Way.
Peony Way is one of the local streets in the southern part
of White City (south of Dimple Dell ravine) that currently
does not have sidewalk on either side of the street.
The concept shows the location (right) and existing cross
section (below, top) and how a sidewalk could be added
to the right-of-way on one side in a way that is minimally
invasive to yard space (below, bottom). Following pages
show this concept in plan and renderings.




                                                                             PEONY WAY
   TYPOLOGY A: PEONY WAY
   TYPOLOGY A: PEONY WAY                                                 Figure 6.3: Location of the example
                                                                         concept for Peony Way.
   EXISTING
  EXISTING
   PROPOSED
  PROPOSED




Figure 6.4: Existing (top) and proposed cross sections for Peony Way -
as an example of a street currently without a sidewalk.                                            Walk White City 47
     TYPOLOGY A: PEONY WAY




                             ATTACHED 6’ SIDEWALK TYP.




                             OPTIONAL WIDENING AROUND
                             FIRE HYDRANT
                             (RELOCATION TO BACK OF
                             WALK POSSIBLE)

                             FIRE HYDRANT




      TYPICAL                 Figure 6.5: A typical layout for building a
                              sidewalk on a street such as Peony Way.

48   Walk White City
                                        ATTACHED 6’ SIDEWALK TYP.




                                        25’ CURB RADIUS REDUCED
                                        TO 10’ RADIUS

                DELPHINEUM / GERANIUM
                                        RESTRICT PARKING FOR 30’
                                        AT INTERSECTIONS




                                        RESTRICT PARKING FOR 30’
                                        AT INTERSECTIONS

                                        20’ CURB RADIUS REDUCED
                                        TO 10’ RADIUS




                             LARKSPUR




                                          Figure 6.6: Typical intersection
                                          configurations for building a sidewalk, curb
                                          ramps, and smaller curb radii on a street
INTERSECTIONS                             such as Peony Way.


                                                                Walk White City 49
     TYPOLOGY A: PEONY WAY




      STREET CHANGES: STREET VIEW
     Figure 6.7: Street-level rendering of the Peony Way concept.


50     Walk White City
REDUCED RADIUS
                                FENCES AND OTHER
                                ROW ENCROACHMENTS
                                TO BE RELOCATED



                    HIGH BACK
                  CURB/GUTTER
                 NEW SIDEWALK




                                     Walk White City 51
Element 2: Priority pedestrian corridors
A series of clear priority routes for pedestrian travel                                                                                                                        QUARRY BEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DRAFT PR
                                                                                                                                                                        / SHOPPING                   / AMPHITHEATER
within and in/out of White City emerged from the                                              9400 South                                                                                                                                  SCENARIO
community and stakeholder process. These corridors
are Poppy Lane, Galena Drive, and Sego Lily Drive                                                /                                                                                                                                                  Street with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    sidewalk on

in the north part of the city and Larkspur Drive and
                                                                                                SANDY
                                                                                                VILLAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Priority cor
                                                                                                SHOPPING

Carnation Drive in the south part of the city. The vision                                       CENTER                                                                                                                                              sides
                                                                                                                                                                /          BIG BEAR PARK

for these routes is to have high levels of pedestrian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Off-street t

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    On-street tr
infrastructure, with consistent buffered sidewalks,                                           BELLVIEW
                                                                                              ELEMENTARY          /                                                           /       GLACIER HILLS
                                                                                                                                                                                      ELEMENTARY

streetscape, quality internal street crossings, and                NEIGHBORHOOD
                                                                                                                           Galena Dr.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Raised cros

quality links outside of White City.                               COMMERCIAL      /
                                                                                                                                      pp
                                                                                                                                        yL
                                                                                                                                             n.
                                                                                                                                                                 n.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    New major
                                                                                                                               Po                       yL
                                                                                                                                                      on                                                                                            New grade
                                                                                                                                               tim
                                                                                                                                             An

Objectives:                                                                                                                                   S eg
                                                                                                                                                     oL                     in
                                                                                                                                                                              tD
                                                                                                                                                                                 r.                                                                 “Hot spot” t
                                                                                                                                                          ily
                                                                                                                                                                Dr.      Fl                                                                         with traffic

2.1 Build priority corridors to the standard of having
                                                                       LONE PEAK
                                                                                   /
                                                                       PARK
                                                                                                                                             /                                                                                 ALTA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Improve ex
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    pass-throug
sidewalks on both sides of the street.
                                                                                                                                                      DIMPLE DELL                       EASTMONT
                                                                                                                                                                                                         /                   / SHOPPING




                                                                                                        AIL
                                                                                                                                                      PARK




                                                                                                                                      Ca
                                                                                                                                                                                        MIDDLE                                 CENTER               New pedes




                                                                                                      CITY TR




                                                                                                                                         r
                                                                                                                                        na
                                                                                                                                          tio
                                                                                                                                              n
                                                                                                                                                  Dr
2.2 The sidewalks on these corridors should have




                                                                                                     WHITE




                                                                                                                                                    .




                                                                                                                                                                                                   St.
                                                                                                                     .
                                                                                                             yllis St


                                                                                                                         Crocus St.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Micro-park




                                                                                                                                                                                              rble
                                                                                                                                         /            ALTA VIEW




                                                                                                                                                                                            Ma
“park strips” - landscaped furnishing zones.




                                                                                                          Amar
                                                                                                                                                      ELEMENTARY

                                                                                                                                       Larkspur Dr.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /     Key commu

2.3 New and existing park strips should not contribute                                                                                                                                                                                        /     Other walk




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1300 East
to extreme pressure on water resources and should



                                                                                   700 East
                                                                                                                                                                      Buddlea Dr.



focus on water-wise plantings, trees, crushed rock,                                                                               10600 South
                                                                                                                                                                                                             /
                                                                                                                                                                                                             NEIGHBORHOOD

or other treatments, while still achieving a landscape
                                                                                                                                                                                                             COMMERCIAL
                                                                                                                                                  /
                                                                                                                                        DIMPLE DELL

aesthetic appropriate to a residential neighborhood.                                                                                    REC CENTER



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0       0.13   0.25
2.4 Plant and infill street trees in the park strips in the
priority corridors, replacing where necessary.
                                                              Figure 6.8: Highlights of Element 2.
2.5 If needed, use the entire public right-of-way to
achieve this pedestrian infrastructure, including the
portion of the right-of-way currently used as yards.
2.6 These corridors will be linked by high-quality
crossings, including bulb-outs and marked crosswalks.
2.7 Link these corridors across major streets to
neighborhoods and destinations outside White City
(see Objective 5).
2.8 Focus horizontal deflection traffic calming
interventions on these corridors in the identified “hot
spots.”




                                                              Priority pedestrian corridors in White City range from those
                                                              that already have sidewalks and park strips on both sides, like
                                                              Larkspur Drive (top) to those that have neither, like segments of
                                                              Poppy Lane (bottom).
52   Walk White City
Corridor guidance
•   Poppy Lane: Transform Poppy Lane into a high-quality pedestrian corridor that links the community between
    Sego Lily Drive and Big Bear Park, up to 9400 South and points north. See following example concept.
•   Galena Drive: Build on new sidewalk by adding another sidewalk on the other side of the street in accordance
    with the Objectives of this Element. In the long term, consider buffering existing sidewalk with landscaping.
•   Sego Lily Drive: Implement sidewalks in the near term while considering an on-street trail, especially for the
    segment identified as an on-street trail in Element 3. Improve crossings and calm traffic, especially at points
    identified below.
•   Larkspur Drive: Generally, maintain the character of the existing Larkspur Drive corridor, with park strip and
    street tree improvements, but between 10415 South and White City Trail, implement an on-street trail. Calm
    traffic at Alta View school and at Larkspur / Carnation with elements that also enhance placemaking. See
    example concept in Element 3. Extend this corridor across 10600 South with a safe crossing improvement.
•   Carnation Drive: Generally, maintain the character of the existing Carnation Drive corridor, with park strip
    and street tree improvements, considering how to make crossings of 700 East and 10600 safer, and traffic
    calming/placemaking at intersection with Larkspur Drive.
Safety hot spot guidance
•   Galena-Poppy: Shape this intersection to support student access to Glacier Hills Elementary School and to
    convey a sense of place for the White City community, from Poppy Lane to the White City Trail and White City
    Water. Consider a narrowing of the roadway for this segment to expand the pedestrian realm.
•   Sego Lily-Poppy: Address the visibility issues at this intersection by extending pedestrian space and reducing
    curb radii (see following Poppy Lane example concept). Improvements to this intersection could be paired with
    the recommended White City Trail crossing improvements in Elements 3 and 4.
•   Sego Lily western community gateway: Work with UDOT Region Two to explore ways to shorten the
    pedestrian crossing and slow turning vehicles at Sego Lily/700 East, and slow traffic entering White City at
    Galena Drive, building on the existing crosswalk.
•   Sego Lily eastern community gateway: Work with Sandy City to explore ways to shorten the pedestrian
    crossing and slow turning vehicles at Sego Lily/1300 East, and slow traffic entering White City at 1280 East,
    building on the existing crosswalk and RRFB signal.
•   Larkspur-Carnation: Similar to Galena-Poppy, shape this intersection to support student access to Alta View
    Elementary School and to convey a sense of place for the White City community.
•   Carnation at Alta View connection: The pedestrian pass-through and street crossing north of Alta View
    school to and across Carnation Drive is a key connection and asset for the Carnation Drive corridor. Consider
    narrowing of roadway here where feasible, as well as potential pedestrian activated signal.




                                                                                              Walk White City 53
Example concept: Poppy Lane
Many of the objectives of Element 2 are explored
and demonstrated in the following concept for Poppy
Lane. Poppy Lane is the only priority pedestrian
corridor (apart from Sego Lily) without sidewalks for
much of its length.
This high need creates the opportunity for
                                                                                 E
                                                                              AN
                                                                           YL
                                                                         PP UTH
                                                                       PO SO

transformation. This catalytic project seeks to create a
high-quality pedestrian environment for the corridor
from 9400 South to Sego Lily Drive, creating a key
connection for the community and a demonstration
of the benefits of what a priority pedestrian corridor
could and should look like.
The concept explores how to create a high-quality
pedestrian corridor within the constraints of the
existing street right-of-way, including a narrow
segment south of Galena Drive.


                                                           Figure 6.9: Location of the two segments
                                                           of the example concept for Poppy Lane.




Poppy Lane at Emerald Drive.


54   Walk White City
 TYPOLOGY B1: POPPY LANE SOUTH




                                       Figure 6.10: Existing and proposed cross
EXISTING




                                       sections for Poppy Lane’s two different
                                       conditions: wider right-of-way north of
                                       Galena Drive (bottom) and narrower
                                       right-of-way south of Galena Drive (top).
PROPOSED




       TYPOLOGY B1: POPPY LANE NORTH
      EXISTING
      PROPOSED




                                                       Walk White City 55
      TYPOLOGY B: POPPY LANE




                                                                                    7’ PARK STRIP, EAST SIDE ONLY


                                                                                    6’ SIDEWALK TYP.



                                                                                    ATTACHED 6’ SIDEWALK TYP.




       SOUTH SEGMENT
      Figure 6.11: A typical layout for building pedestrian improvements on Poppy
      Lane’s south segment (narrower right-of-way).




56   Walk White City
                                                                              25’ CURB RADIUS REDUCED
                                                                              TO 10’ RADIUS
                                                      SILICA / ONYX /
                                                      EMERALD / WEBSTER




                                                                              DIRECTIONAL CURB RAMP
                                                                              WHERE POSSIBLE, TYP.




                                                                              7’ PARK STRIP
                                                                              6’ SIDEWALK TYP.




                                                                              FIRE HYDRANTS/UTILITIES IN PARK STRIP


                                                                              7’ PARK STRIP, EAST SIDE ONLY
                                                                              6’ SIDEWALK TYP.



 NORTH SEGMENT
Figure 6.12: A typical layout for building pedestrian improvements on Poppy
Lane’s north segment (wider right-of-way).




                                                                                                  Walk White City 57
     TYPOLOGY B: POPPY LANE




                                          REMOVED PLANTING
                                             AND OTHER ROW
                                            ENCROACHMENTS
                                                                                                  NEW PARK STRIP WITH
                                                                                                  WATER-WISE PLANTING
                                                                                                  NEW SIDEWALK




                                                                                      RELOCATED CURB/GUTTER




      STREET CHANGES: STREET VIEW
     Figure 6.13: Street-level rendering of the Poppy Lane (north segment) concept.

58    Walk White City
                                    FENCES AND OTHER
                                    ROW ENCROACHMENTS
                                    TO BE RELOCATED

NEW PARK STRIP WITH
WATER-WISE PLANTING
      NEW SIDEWALK




                      EXISTING CURB/GUTTER




                                              Walk White City 59
Element 3: Expand trail network                                                                                                                                                       QUARRY BEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DRAFT PR
                                                                                                                                                                                / SHOPPING                   / AMPHITHEATER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SCENARIO
The new White City trail is popular among residents,
                                                                                            9400 South


providing a central piece of community infrastructure                                          /                                                                                                                                                            Street witho

for both recreation and transportation. The trail is a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            sidewalk on
                                                                                              SANDY
                                                                                              VILLAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Priority corr
hub for walking, jogging, biking, scooting, and other
                                                                                              SHOPPING
                                                                                              CENTER                                                                                                                                                        sides

modes of activity for all types of people - individuals,                                                                                                               /          BIG BEAR PARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Off-street tr

elderly, kinds, and families. One conclusion of the                                                                                                                                                                                                         On-street tr


Walk White City process is that this experience should
                                                                                            BELLVIEW
                                                                                            ELEMENTARY                  /
                                                                                                                                  Galena Dr.
                                                                                                                                                                                     /          GLACIER HILLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                ELEMENTARY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Raised cros
be enhanced and extended.                                        NEIGHBORHOOD
                                                                 COMMERCIAL      /
                                                                                                                                           yL
                                                                                                                                                    n.                                                                                                      New major
                                                                                                                                         pp                            Ln
                                                                                                                                                                          .
                                                                                                                                      Po                       y
                                                                                                                                                             on                                                                                             New grade-
And so a major objective of this plan is to improve
                                                                                                                                                      tim
                                                                                                                                                    An

                                                                                                                                                                                           r.                                                               “Hot spot” t
White City’s trails into a connected network, with                                                                                                                                    tD
                                                                                                                                                     S eg
                                                                                                                                                            oL                      in
                                                                                                                                                                 ily
                                                                                                                                                                       Dr.       Fl                                                                         with traffic

recreational and community amenities. This Element
                                                                     LONE PEAK
                                                                                 /
                                                                     PARK
                                                                                                                                                    /                                                                                  ALTA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Improve ex
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            pass-throug
seeks to both enhance and extend existing links in
                                                                                                                                                             DIMPLE DELL                          EASTMONT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /                   / SHOPPING




                                                                                                                          AIL
                                                                                                                                                             PARK




                                                                                                                                             Ca
                                                                                                                                                                                                  MIDDLE                               CENTER               New pedes




                                                                                                                  CITY TR




                                                                                                                                                r
                                                                                                                                               na
the network - such as the White City Trail and trails in




                                                                                                                                                 tio
                                                                                                                                                     n
                                                                                                                                                         Dr
                                                                                                           WHITE




                                                                                                                                                           .




                                                                                                                                                                                                           St.
the Dimple Dell ravine - and provide new links such as




                                                                                                                .
                                                                                                        yllis St


                                                                                                                                Crocus St.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Micro-park




                                                                                                                                                                                                      rble
                                                                                                                                                /            ALTA VIEW




                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ma
                                                                                                   Amar
on-street trails.
                                                                                                                                                             ELEMENTARY

                                                                                                                                              Larkspur Dr.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /     Key commu

The ultimate vision for trails in White City is threefold                                                                                                                                                                                             /     Other walka




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1300 East
                                                                                 700 East
- 1) extend and enhance the White City Trail into                                                                                                                             Buddlea Dr.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /
a complete north-south corridor that safely and                                                                                          10600 South                                                                 NEIGHBORHOOD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COMMERCIAL

conveniently connects to the north and south; 2)                                                                                                         /
                                                                                                                                               DIMPLE DELL
                                                                                                                                               REC CENTER
create an internal trail loop that links the community
to key destinations; and 3) add a string of “microparks”                                                                                                                                                                                          0       0.13   0.25

that complement the trail experience with small
community spaces for relaxing, playing, or community        Figure 6.14: Element 3 highlights.
gathering. The following Objectives detail these three
aspects.




                                                            White City’s trail network assets include the new White City Trail
                                                            and the segment of the Dimple Dell trail network that provides a
                                                            connection across the ravine.
60   Walk White City
Objectives:
3.1 Extend the White City Trail from Big Bear Park                       3.10 Implement microparks. Microparks are small
north across 9400 South to Sandy.                                        public plaza or recreational spaces along trails and
                                                                         streets. They often make use of extra street or public
3.2 Create a safe, convenient crossing of 10600 South                    lands space. They emerged in the planning process as
for the White City Trail, ideally grade separated from                   a way to enhance the life of the community, provide
the 10600 South roadway.                                                 more recreational amenities, and enhance trail
3.3 Improve the safety, comfort, and visibility of the                   corridors.
four existing internal White City street crossings of the                Microparks are a part of Element 3 because the
White City Trail (at Larkspur Drive; Carnation Drive;                    vision is for them to be generally integrated with
Sego Lily Drive; and Galena Drive) as well as the future                 trail corridors. Along these lines, the Walk White City
Poppy Lane crossing. The vision for these crossings is                   planning process has identified a series of potential
to have raised crossings - see Element 4.                                locations for microparks. Each could take a variety
3.4 Add amenities to the White City Trail such as                        of forms, depending on community desires for the
pedestrian scale lighting, seating/rest areas, shade,                    space. They are as follows:
and wayfinding.                                                          •    10415 South stub: A segment of dead-end street
3.5 Create a central trail loop for White City whose                          along the planned internal trail loop that connects
segments include the White City Trail, an on-street                           to Dimple Dell park and its trails and is the
trail along Larkspur Drive, the 10415 South stub, an                          beginning of the planned Larkspur Drive on-street
improved trail through Dimple Dell ravine, an on-                             trail.
street trail along Marble Street, and an on-street                       •    Carnation Drive/White City Trail: A space along
trail along Sego Lily Drive. This loop should provide                         Carnation Drive adjacent to the White City Trail.
a relatively consistent trail experience, including with
the street crossings, and be enhanced with wayfinding                    •    Marble Street/Dimple Dell: Similar to the
signage, lighting, and quality access to destination                          Carnation opportunity, there is an extension of
such as Alta View Elementary school.                                          Dimple Dell park that runs along Serpentine Way
                                                                              at Marble Street that could be a good micropark.
3.6 Build an on-street trail on Larkspur Drive between
Dimple Dell connection in east and the White City                        •    Galena Drive/White City Water: If the
Trail. See the example concept in the following pages.                        pedestrian realm along Galena Drive is extended
                                                                              to accommodate a short segment of on-street
3.7 Improve the existing trail across Dimple Dell                             trail and narrow the roadway, that creates the
ravine from 10415 South to Marble Street with                                 potential for a small public space adjacent to
improvements such as resurfacing, lighting, and                               White City Water.
wayfinding.
                                                                         •    Larkspur Drive/Alta View Elementary:
3.8 Build short but critical segments of on-street trail                      Similar to the White City Water opportunity, the
on Marble Street and on Galena Drive.                                         recommendation for the Larkspur corridor on-
3.9 Continue to evaluate the opportunity for an on-                           street trail could create the potential for a small
street trail on Sego Lily Drive between Marble Street                         public space next to Alta View Elementary.
and the White City Trail.




Potential locations for microparks lie along the existing and planned trail network and include the White City Trail at Carnation Drive
(left); the Dimple Dell trail at Marble Street and Serpentine Drive (center); and at the stub of 10415 South, which connects to Dimple Dell.

                                                                                                                Walk White City 61
Example concept: Larkspur Drive
Many of the objectives of Element 3 are explored and
demonstrated in the following concept for Larkspur
Drive. Larkspur Drive is both a priority pedestrian
corridor and, between the White City trail and 10415
South, one of the links of the envisioned trail loop
within White City.
This concept explores the idea of an on-street trail on
this segment of Larkspur Drive. Larkspur connects to
several destinations - Alta View Elementary School,
White City Trail, and White Towers pool, and Dimple
Dell park. The on-street trail concept can increase
safety for all types of users.
                                                                                      1     2         1
The on-street trail a new idea for the community - an                                LARKSPUR DRIVE
                                                                                                          2


on-street trail that is a version of the White City Trail
but using street space instead of a separate right-of-
way.
The concept also includes major streetscape and
landscape improvements and traffic calming, including
bulb-outs and shortened crossings at the “hot spot” of                         Figure 6.15: Location of the example
Larkspur and Carnation Drives.                                                 concept for Larkspur Drive, including the
                                                                               two different conditions informing the
This concept can take the pedestrian network in the                            concept.
southern part of White City to a new level and with
one link, vastly improve the network.




Larkspur Drive at Carnation Drive - a key node for the White City community.




62   Walk White City
 TYPOLOGY C: LARKSPUR DRIVE
EXISTING
 CONDITION 1
  PROPOSED
 CONDITION 2
  PROPOSED




Figure 6.16: Existing typical cross section for Larkspur Drive (top) and proposed cross sections
for the two different conditions: segments where parking can be eliminated on one side (1) and
where parking cannot be eliminated (2).                                                            Walk White City 63
     TYPOLOGY C: LARKSPUR DRIVE




                                                        A                     B




       A
                                                                                        30’ CURB RADIUS REDUCED
                                                                                        TO 10’ RADIUS
                                                                                        10’ PATHWAY
                                                                                        5’ PARKSTRIP
                                                                                        RELOCATED GUTTER




                                                                                        8’ WIDENED PARKSTRIP
                                                                                        5’ SIDEWALK
                                                                                        DIRECTIONAL CURB RAMP
                                        AMARYLLIS




                                                                                        WHERE POSSIBLE, TYP.




       CONDITON 1

       B

                                                                                        8’ PATHWAY

                                                                                        2’ PAVED AREA FOR MAILBOXES, ETC.
                                                                                        RELOCATED GUTTER




                                                                                        8’ WIDENED PARKSTRIP
                                                                                        5’ SIDEWALK
                                                                                        25’ CURB RADIUS REDUCED
                              STATICE




                                                                                        TO 10’ RADIUS


       CONDITION 2
     Figure 6.17: Plan-view concept for Larkspur Drive showing the two conditions, they key intersection with Carnation Drive, and a
     micropark concept at 10415 South.

64     Walk White City
                                      C


                                                           D



C                                         25’ CURB RADIUS REDUCED
                                          TO 15’ RADIUS
                                          8’ PATHWAY

                                          2’ PAVED AREA FOR MAILBOXES, ETC.
                                          RELOCATED GUTTER
                          CARNATION




                                          DIRECTIONAL CURB RAMP
                                          WHERE POSSIBLE, TYP.
                                          8’ WIDENED PARKSTRIP
                                          5’ SIDEWALK




CARNATION INTERSECTION

D
                                          WAYFINDING / SIGNAGE
                                          TRAILHEAD



                                          MICRO PARK/PLAZA

                                          FITNESS EQUIPMENT / SEATING

                                          8’ PATHWAY
                      S
                 15
             104
                                          BOLLARDS AT INTERSECTION
                                          20’ CURB RADIUS REDUCED
                                          TO 10’ RADIUS
MICRO PARK / PLAZA


                                                                 Walk White City 65
     TYPOLOGY C: LARKSPUR DRIVE




                                                                                               BULB OUTS

                                                                              WIDEN EXISTING
                                                                              SIDEWALK




                                                       EXISTING CURB/GUTTER




      STREET CHANGES: STREET VIEW
     Figure 6.18: Street-level rendering of the Larkspur Concept.


66    Walk White City
 NEW PARK STRIP WITH
WATER-WISE PLANTING



       NEW PATHWAY




RELOCATED CURB/GUTTER




                        Walk White City 67
Element 4: Key nodes for safer crossings, traffic calming, improved streetscape, and sense of place

In addition to street and pathway corridors identified                                                                                                                             QUARRY BEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DRAFT PR
                                                                                                                                                                             / SHOPPING                   / AMPHITHEATER
in Elements 1 through 3, the Pedestrian Network                                                  9400 South                                                                                                                                    SCENARIO
Concept also includes key nodes throughout the
community that are important for improving walking.                                                   /                                                                                                                                                  Street witho
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         sidewalk on
                                                                                                   SANDY
                                                                                                   VILLAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Priority corr
A series of intersections and other nodes presents                                                 SHOPPING
                                                                                                   CENTER                                                                                                                                                sides

opportunities for safer crossings, slowing traffic,                                                                                                                  /         BIG BEAR PARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Off-street tr

placemaking, and creating public space - many                                                                                                                                                                                                            On-street tr

projects can accomplish several or all these things
                                                                                                 BELLVIEW
                                                                                                 ELEMENTARY            /
                                                                                                                                Galena Dr.
                                                                                                                                                                                  /          GLACIER HILLS
                                                                                                                                                                                             ELEMENTARY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Raised cros
at once. These nodes largely lie along the Priority                  NEIGHBORHOOD
                                                                     COMMERCIAL       /                                                           n.                                                                                                     New major
Corridors and trail network identified in Elements 2
                                                                                                                                             yL
                                                                                                                                           pp                         n.
                                                                                                                                    Po                       yL
                                                                                                                                                           on                                                                                            New grade-
                                                                                                                                                    tim

and 3.
                                                                                                                                                  An

                                                                                                                                                                                        r.                                                               “Hot spot” t
                                                                                                                                                   S eg
                                                                                                                                                          oL                       tD
                                                                                                                                                                                 in                                                                      with traffic
                                                                                                                                                               ily
                                                                                                                                                                     Dr.      Fl


Objectives:
                                                                          LONE PEAK
                                                                                      /
                                                                          PARK
                                                                                                                                                  /        DIMPLE DELL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ALTA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Improve ex
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         pass-throug
                                                                                                                                                                                               EASTMONT
                                                                                                                                                                                                              /                   / SHOPPING




                                                                                                             AIL
                                                                                                                                                           PARK




                                                                                                                                           Ca
                                                                                                                                                                                               MIDDLE

4.1 Generally increase visibility of crossing pedestrians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CENTER               New pedes




                                                                                                           CITY TR




                                                                                                                                              r
                                                                                                                                             na
                                                                                                                                               tio
                                                                                                                                                   n
                                                                                                                                                       Dr
and other users.




                                                                                                          WHITE




                                                                                                                                                         .




                                                                                                                                                                                                        St.
                                                                                                                          .
                                                                                                                  yllis St


                                                                                                                              Crocus St.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Micro-park




                                                                                                                                                                                                   rble
                                                                                                                                              /            ALTA VIEW




                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ma
                                                                                                               Amar
                                                                                                                                                           ELEMENTARY

4.2 Slow traffic by narrowing the roadway at key                                                                                            Larkspur Dr.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /     Key commu

locations.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /     Other walka




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1300 East
                                                                                      700 East
                                                                                                                                                                           Buddlea Dr.

4.3 Slow traffic and serve pedestrians by installing                                                                                                                                                              /
raised crossings on White City Trail crossings.                                                                                        10600 South                                                                NEIGHBORHOOD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  COMMERCIAL
                                                                                                                                                       /
                                                                                                                                             DIMPLE DELL
                                                                                                                                             REC CENTER

4.4 Integrate appropriate streetscape with node
projects - such as water-wise planting                                                                                                                                                                                                         0       0.13   0.25


4.5 Capitalize on opportunities to reflect the                Figure 6.19: Element 4 highlights.
community with gateway and other placemaking
treatments.
4.6 Monitor Priority Corridors on an ongoing basis for                         Bulb-outs with
                                                                               signature
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Street trees that
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  preserve safe level
safe crossing and traffic calming needs.                                       landscaping                                                        Pedestrian refuge                                               of visibility




                                                                 M
                                                                  AJ
                                                                     OR
                                                                          ST
                                                                             R EE
                                                                                  T




                            Key nodes in White City include
                            crossings of Sego Lily Drive                                                    AI
                                                                                                                          L
                                                                                                          TR
                            (upper left); White City Trail                                         TY
                                                                                                 CI
                            crossings (upper right); and                            HI
                                                                                       TE
                            places where major corridors                         W

                            cross near community
                            destinations such as Larkspur
                                                              Existing gutter can
                            and Carnation Drives (bottom      run between
                                                                                                                                                       Median island with                                                  Raised crossing -
                                                                                                                                                       mountable curb for                                                  speed table
                            left).                            bulb-outs and                                                                            emergency vehicles
                                                              existing curb


                                                              Figure 6.20: Example concept of a raised crossing for the White
                                                              City Trail.

68   Walk White City
Element 5: Improve external crossings
It is vital to the pedestrian network that the White City
community can safely, comfortably, and conveniently                                                                                                                                   QUARRY BEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DRAFT PR
                                                                                                                                                                                / SHOPPING                   / AMPHITHEATER
access the surrounding communities. Many                                                              9400 South                                                                                                                                  SCENARIO
destinations lie within walking distance of White City,                                                  /                                                                                                                                                  Street witho
such as the Alta Shopping Center, the Lone Peak Park,                                                   SANDY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            sidewalk on

Dimple Dell Recreation Center, and Sandy Civic Center
                                                                                                        VILLAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Priority corr
                                                                                                        SHOPPING
                                                                                                        CENTER                                                                                                                                              sides

TRAX station. But the streets that lie in the way - 700                                                                                                                 /         BIG BEAR PARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Off-street tr

East, 1300 East, 9400 South and 10600 South - pose                                                                                                                                                                                                          On-street tr

barriers to walking to these destinations. There are                                                                                                                                 /
                                                                                                      BELLVIEW                                                                                  GLACIER HILLS
                                                                                                      ELEMENTARY          /                                                                     ELEMENTARY
                                                                                                                                   Galena Dr.

other connections to                                                       NEIGHBORHOOD
                                                                           COMMERCIAL      /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Raised cross

                                                                                                                                                     n.                                                                                                     New major
                                                                                                                                                yL
                                                                                                                                              pp                         n.
                                                                                                                                       Po                       yL
Element 5 presents targeted crossing improvements                                                                                                    An
                                                                                                                                                       tim
                                                                                                                                                              on                                                                                            New grade-


intended to better allow people to walk to these                                                                                                      S eg
                                                                                                                                                             oL
                                                                                                                                                                  ily
                                                                                                                                                                        Dr.      Fl
                                                                                                                                                                                    in
                                                                                                                                                                                      tD
                                                                                                                                                                                           r.                                                               “Hot spot” t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            with traffic c
external destinations. These improvements will, for                            LONE PEAK
                                                                                           /
the most part, need to be implemented in partnership
                                                                               PARK
                                                                                                                                                     /        DIMPLE DELL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ALTA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Improve exi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            pass-throug
                                                                                                                                                                                                  EASTMONT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /                   / SHOPPING




                                                                                                                AIL
                                                                                                                                                              PARK




                                                                                                                                              Ca
                                                                                                                                                                                                  MIDDLE                               CENTER               New pedes
with Sandy City and/or UDOT.




                                                                                                              CITY TR




                                                                                                                                                 r
                                                                                                                                                na
                                                                                                                                                  tio
                                                                                                                                                      n
                                                                                                                                                          Dr
                                                                                                             WHITE




                                                                                                                                                            .




                                                                                                                                                                                                           St.
                                                                                                                             .
                                                                                                                     yllis St


                                                                                                                                 Crocus St.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Micro-park




                                                                                                                                                                                                      rble
Objectives:                                                                                                                                      /            ALTA VIEW




                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ma
                                                                                                                  Amar
                                                                                                                                                              ELEMENTARY



5.1 New (potentially grade-separated) crossings for
                                                                                                                                               Larkspur Dr.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /     Key commu

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /     Other walka
the White City Trail at 10600 South and 9400 South.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1300 East
                                                                                           700 East
                                                                                                                                                                              Buddlea Dr.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /
5.2 Improved crossings at Sego Lily Drive and 700                                                                                         10600 South
                                                                                                                                                          /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NEIGHBORHOOD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COMMERCIAL

East/1300 East.                                                                                                                                 DIMPLE DELL
                                                                                                                                                REC CENTER



5.3 New at-grade pedestrian crossings across major                                                                                                                                                                                                0       0.13   0.25
streets: Poppy/9400 South (may have to be either-or
with future trail crossing) and Larkspur/10600 South.                 Figure 6.21: Element 5 highlights.
5.4 Improve pedestrian pass-through connections
to destinations and surrounding neighborhoods,
through lighting, wider pathways, new surfacing,
wayfinding, and safer, ADA links to and from the pass-
throughs.




Element 5 proposes both improvements to existing major street crossings such as at 1300 East (left); and new
crossings to link the community at key connections like over 10600 South at Larkspur Drive (right).




                                                                                                                                                                                                Walk White City 69
Element 6: Maintenance and enforcement
Some of the shortcomings of the current pedestrian
environment in White City lie in maintenance and
enforcement challenges - such as parked cars on the
sidewalk, the difficulty for homeowners to maintain
water-intensive park strips, and the task for seniors to
shovel sidewalks.
At the same time, the resilience of many of the
investments recommended by this plan depends on
stakeholders’ ability to maintain it and enforce proper
use of it.
This plan element seeks to highlight areas of focus
for enforcement and strategies for maintenance
that reduce challenges for community members and
County and MSD staff.
                                                           Example of parking restriction sign on Poppy Lane.
Objectives:
6.1 Enforce against parking on sidewalks - particularly
those with rolled curbs and/or no park strips.
6.2 Restrict parking 30 feet from each corner to
increase visibility at intersections.
6.3 Enforce speed limits on key pedestrian corridors
and at key traffic calming priority areas identified in
Element 2.
6.4 Promote drought-resistant plantings on new and
existing park strips.
6.5 Monitor sidewalk condition throughout White City.
Aim to replace poor sidewalks. Prioritize replacement
of poor sidewalk conditions on the Priority Corridors
as well as the SNAP school routes.




70   Walk White City
7 Implementation
The Walk White City pedestrian network will be implemented through a mix of strategies - small intervention
projects that can deliver “quick wins”, deliberate, larger MSD/County-led capital projects, opportunistic efforts to
build sidewalks, and policy and enforcement measures. The vision for implementation is that initial projects can
demonstrate benefits and build a track record of success (and offer lessons for refinement), especially for project
types new to the community.
This section defines projects and lists them in a series broad project categories based on priority and
implementation strategy type. The projects are broken down into capital projects and ongoing Implementation.


Capital projects                                             Galena-Poppy intersection improvements $-$$

Capital projects are distinct projects building              This intersection is the nexus of a lot of activity in
infrastructure of varying sizes and with different           White City - school access, park access, getting in
partners involved.                                           and out of the community - and is the crossing of
                                                             two of the priority pedestrian corridors as identified
They can be categorized by cost according to the             in Element 2. Yet there is no traffic control here or
following order-of-magnitude breakdown:                      marked crossing. This project would add elements to
                                                             slow traffic, establish pedestrian crossings on all four
$$$$ - over $1 million                                       legs, and add placemaking elements to convey White
                                                             City’s sense of community. While this project could be
$$$ - $200,000 - $1 million                                  done as part of the Poppy Lane corridor mentioned
$$ - $50,000 - $200,000                                      above, this is a great opportunity to undertake a
                                                             relatively inexpensive, or even interim, project to
$ - Less than $50,000                                        convey the direction of Walk White City.

Initial priorities - catalytic projects                      White City Trail crossing improvements $-$$ each

This group of catalytic projects kick off the                Raised crossings and a narrowing of the roadway /
implementation of the plan with a mix of efforts that        extension of pedestrian space at each of the four
are of highest importance to the community, provide          White City Trail street crossings will slow traffic, make
a “multiplier effect” of influence over the pedestrian       trail users more visible, make the crossing more
network, and/or can both demonstrate the benefits            comfortable, green the trail corridor, and enhance the
and provide lessons for future projects.                     sense of place for White City.

Sego Lily sidewalk / reconfiguration $$$$                    Each crossing consists of three elements: a raised
                                                             crossing (speed table with a crosswalk on top); a set
Sego Lily Drive is the most important street for             of bulb-outs extending into the roadway ‘s shoulder/
pedestrians in White City, as a connector in and             parking space; and drought-tolerant landscaping in
through the community and as a barrier to cross.             the bulb-outs.
This project builds the sidewalks planned by the
community through the Sego Lily planning effort,             This project could be either a pilot of one crossing or
separate from this plan. In the long term, Sego Lily         the entire series of four crossings at Galena, Sego Lily,
could incorporate the on-street trail recommended by         Carnation, and Larkspur Drives.
this plan.                                                   Sego Lily community gateways $-$$ each
Poppy Lane corridor $$$$                                     Slowing traffic and raising awareness of the
Poppy Lane has emerged in the Walk White                     community as people enter White City on the
City planning process as one of a handful of key             primary entry street of Sego Lily Drive is an important
pedestrian corridors - and is the only one (apart from       component of the pedestrian network. Indeed, both
Sego Lily) without sidewalks for much of its length.         the western and eastern ends of Sego Lily Drive are
This catalytic project, illustrated in the concept in        safety “hot spots.”
Network Element 2, seeks to create a high quality            This project would consist of features to slow traffic,
pedestrian environment for the corridor from 9400            create a human scale to the street, and increase
South to Sego Lily Drive, creating a key connection for      awareness of people using the street and sidewalks,
the community and a demonstration of the benefits            while also providing a welcome into the community.
of what a priority pedestrian corridor could and             The west end would be at 730 East/Galena Drive, and
should look like.
                                                                                              Walk White City 71
the east end would be at 1280 East. Both locations           Dell-Marble project, is a small effort. Yet putting all of
already have a marked crosswalk - the projects would         these pieces together will create a whole greater than
extend the pedestrian space into the shoulder/               the sum of individual projects.
parking lane and provide an optional median island.
                                                             White City Trail north segment $$$$
These interventions could be executed as “quick
build” projects of paint, reflective tape and delineator     The major gap in the White City / Canal Trail corridor
posts, or could be built with curbed islands/bulb-outs,      within White City’s borders lies along the east side
and welcome signage and/or themed art such as with           of Big Bear Park and runs west then north to 9400
the flower street-name theme or Bear Park theme.             South. This project would fill that gap, extending the
                                                             White City Trail from the southeast corner of the
Sidewalk gap pilots $$                                       park, along the canal alignment on the eastern/north
                                                             border of the park, across Poppy Lane, then along
It is important for the community to begin work on           the canal alignment to 9400 South. Alternatively, the
building basic sidewalks on the streets in White City        trail could stay in Big Bear Park, running along its
that do not have them - the top-ranked sidewalk              western edge to meet with the canal alignment in the
projects are part of this first set of initial priorities.   northwest corner of the park.
These projects are sidewalks on Onyx Lane, Emerald
Drive, and Sunflower Lane, stretches of street               The project would also likely include a trail crossing
important to the overall connectivity of the community       along the lines of the recommendation for the other
through their links to pedestrian pass-throughs and          four trail crossings (raised crossing with bulb-outs).
street crossings and connections to destinations such
as schools, parks, and shops. These are also shorter         The project could also benefit from its own feasibility
stretches that will be more cost-effective. These            study/plan.
projects will install 6-foot sidewalks and highback curb
                                                             Larkspur On-street Trail $$$$
and gutter on these three streets and also re-shape
corners to reduce the curb radius (current curb radii        The Larkspur On-street Trail is a signature project of
on Onyx Lane, for example, are up to 30 feet) and add        this plan. It improves a key corridor in the community
ADA curb ramps.                                              that connects to several destinations - Alta View
                                                             Elementary School, White City Trail, and White Towers
Micropark pilot $ - $$
                                                             pool, and Dimple Dell park - in an innovative way
Microparks are small public plaza or recreational            meant to dramatically increase safety for all types of
spaces along trails and streets. They often make use         users. It is a link of the trail loop integral to the Walk
of extra street or public lands space. They emerged in       White City Pedestrian Network. The project proposes
the planning process as a way to enhance the life of         a new idea for the community - an on-street trail that
the community, provide more recreational amenities,          is a version of the White City Trail but using street
and enhance trail corridors.                                 space instead of a separate right-of-way.

As a new concept to the White City community, it is          The project also includes major streetscape and
important in this first round of projects to provide a       landscape improvements and traffic calming, including
successful example of the micropark concept. This            bulb-outs and shortened crossings at the “hot spot” of
project will identify the best opportunity (of those set     Larkspur and Carnation Drives.
out in Element 3) and build a micropark. Similarly to
                                                             This project is not in the first round of priority
the previous project, the project could be executed
                                                             catalytic projects because Larkspur corridor is already
as a more “pop-up” project using paint and movable
                                                             relatively pedestrian supportive and the on-street trail
elements, or as permanent infrastructure. Element 3
                                                             concept could require time to do right. Yet it will take
shows a potential pop-up style micropark.
                                                             the pedestrian network in the southern part of White
Trail projects                                               City to a new level and with one link, vastly improve
                                                             the network.
As Element 3 states, expanding White City’s trail
network to build off the White City Trail and Dimple         Dimple Dell - Marble trail connection $$$-$$$$
Dell corridor are a major part of the plan. These            The other piece of the trail loop shown in the Walk
projects, while not in the list of top priorities, are the   White City pedestrian network is the link between
major pieces needed to fill out the plan’s vision for a      Larkspur Drive and Sego Lily Drive via the Dimple Dell
comprehensive network of off- and on-street trails.          ravine. There are three pieces of this link: The stub
None, with the potential exception of the Dimple




72   Walk White City
of 10415 South, which could be improved for          RRFB with traffic calming support.
a trail or for a micropark, as shown in Element
3; the existing trail through Dimple Dell, which     New 9400 South trail crossing $$$
could be resurfaced with lighting or other
                                                     Sandy City recently constructed a new pedestrian
amenities; and a short stretch of on-street trail
                                                     crossing at 9400 South. While future White City Trail
along Marble Street to connect with Sego Lily
                                                     northern segment users could use this crossing,
Drive.
                                                     it will be worth analyzing the feasibility/investment
Sego Lily Trail - long term $$$-$$$$                 of a crossing directly along the trail alignment. This
                                                     crossing could be combined with a crossing for Poppy
The White City community has identified a cross      Lane as well.
section for Sego Lily Drive with sidewalks on
both sides and plans to build these sidewalks        700 East / Sego Lily intersection improvements $$
in the near term. However, in the long term,
                                                     This project is a collaboration with UDOT Region 2 to
Sego Lily Drive represents a valuable link in the
                                                     improve the crossing experience and safety at this
planned trail loop and opportunity for an on-
                                                     intersection, especially across 700 East. This project
street trail on one side.
                                                     may require a small study to examine the feasibility
Collaborative projects with local/                   and effectiveness of strategies such as median refuge
                                                     islands, bulb-outs, elimination of right turn lanes,
regional partners                                    smaller curb radii, and pedestrian count adjustments.
Improved and new crossings over the major            1300 East / Sego Lily intersection improvements $$
roadway corridors that surround White City
are a lower priority for the community than          This project is a collaboration with Sandy City to
internal White City connections. However, these      improve the crossing experience and safety at this
connections are still important, especially to       intersection, especially across 1300 East. This project
help residents access shopping and recreation        may require a small study to examine the feasibility
opportunities, strengthen the regionally             and effectiveness of strategies such as median refuge
important Sego Lily corridor, access TRAX, and       islands, bulb-outs, elimination of right turn lanes,
strengthen the White City Trail /Canal Trail         smaller curb radii, and pedestrian count adjustments.
corridor.
New 10600 South trail crossing $$$
The White City Trail extends south to 10600
South, across which the Sandy Canal Trail picks
up. However, there is no marked or signaled
pedestrian crossing nearby. This project
proposes a safe crossing of 10600 South -
preferably a grade-separated tunnel under
10600 South. The expense of such a crossing
type is warranted in the connectivity it would
provide between the two communities.
New 10600 South crossing at Larkspur Drive
$$-$$$
The community identified more frequent and
better crossings of 10600 South as a priority, to
connect the portion of White City to the south.
Larkspur Drive, as a priority pedestrian corridor,
is a natural place to make this connection. This
project would work with Sandy City to build
a marked crossing at Larkspur, utilizing an
appropriate device such as a HAWK signal or




                                                                                     Walk White City 73
Ongoing implementation                                     pedestrian improvements like raised crossings are
                                                           generally preferred on the priority corridors. But
Ongoing implementation refers to improvements              small vertical deflection measures popular with
that will rely on the emergence of opportunities for       the community such as “speed humps” or “speed
collaboration, leveraging other projects, or funding.      lumps” (which are smaller than bumps and better for
                                                           micromobility users such as cyclists) can be applied
These improvements may “piggyback” on other street         to local streets on an ongoing basis to address traffic
or development projects, may be combined in larger         calming.
projects, or be single street or corridor projects. As
such, they cannot be called out as individual projects     Microparks
or prioritized yet - MSD/County staff will need to
opportunistically watch for chances to implement or        Microparks are small public plaza or recreational
for “hot spots” to emerge.                                 spaces along trails and streets. They often make use
                                                           of extra street or public lands space. They emerged in
Sidewalks and safe corners                                 the planning process as a way to enhance the life of
                                                           the community, provide more recreational amenities,
The largest category of ongoing implementation is          and enhance trail corridors.
for building basic sidewalks on streets without them -
improvements that are the focus of Element 1. These        Potential micropark locations are identified in the
sidewalk improvements will also likely include safe        Pedestrian Network concept. They largely lie along the
corners - the reconstruction of corners with smaller       network of existing and proposed trails. The nature
curb radii , more pedestrian space, and ADA ramps -        of each space will depend on the location, community
directional where possible.                                feedback, and funding available. The MSD/White City
                                                           and their partners will need to keep an eye out for
Because these sidewalks will likely be built in the part   opportunities to implement micropark, potentially in
of the street typically treated as part of the private     conjunction with trail improvements.
yard space (but technically part of the public right-of-
way), there are many built obstacles to implementing
these sidewalks, such as trees, fences, mailboxes,
                                                           Funding sources & strategies
that would need to be removed or relocated. Some           When considering possible funding sources for
blocks and segments will be easier to implement            pedestrian and pathway projects, it is important
than others, and these improvements may need to            to remember that not all construction activities or
“piggyback” on projects such as street paving or utility   programs will be accomplished with a single funding
line replacements. They can also happen in response        source. It will be necessary to consider several
to groups of property owners organizing requests to        sources of funding that together will support full
have a sidewalk on their block. Generally, the smallest    project completion. Funding sources can be used
increment of these improvements should be one              for various activities, including planning, design,
block face, and include the corners at each end.           construction, and maintenance. Traditionally, tax-
                                                           based sources such as Federal aid dollars have been
For the purposes of project prioritization, the project    the most common source of transportation funding.
team did rank these sidewalk projects - note that
the top-ranked projects are in the “Initial priorities”    Still, innovative funding strategies such as leveraging
section.                                                   local partnerships and sponsorships can be utilized
                                                           together to fund projects to completion. This section
Traffic calming - speed humps/lumps                        outlines the most likely funding sources from the
                                                           federal, state, and local government levels. Note
Traffic calming is a major concern to the community.
                                                           that this reflects the funding available at the time of
While Walk White City is not a traffic calming plan per
                                                           writing. Funding amounts, cycles, and the programs
se, the pedestrian environment is heavily dependent
                                                           themselves may change over time. Funding strategies
on a safe traffic environment.
                                                           for active transportation projects include:
The Capital Projects section identifies some projects
                                                           •   Federal Funding
that will calm traffic at specific hot spots and
along priority corridors. However, traffic calming         •   State and Local Funding
improvements should also respond to issues that
occur and citizen requests. Horizontal deflection          •   Local Partnerships
measures such as bulb-outs and median islands
or vertical deflection measures that co-locate with        •   Public Art Funding Sources
                                                           •   In-Kind Donations

74   Walk White City
Federal funding sources                                    State funding sources
Safe Streets and Roads for All (SS4A) Grant Program        Active Transportation Investment Fund (ATIF)
The SS4A Grant Program funds the development or            The TIF fund was created in the 2005 Special Session
update of a comprehensive safety action plan (Action       by House Bill 108 and contains revenue from legisla-
Plan), conducting planning, design, and development        tive appropriations, sales tax, and vehicle registration
activities in support of an Action Plan, and/or carry-     fees.. In 2018, the TIF was revised to establish a sep-
ing out projects and strategies identified in an Action    arate fund for Active Transportation projects. These
Plan. WFRC is in the process of developing an SS4A         funds are awarded through the State Transportation
Action Plan grant application that could subsequently      Commission and administered through UDOT. Proj-
be used to apply for capital funding for projects iden-    ects must be paved, part of the UDOT Active Trans-
tified in the Walk White City Plan.                        portation Plan, provide traffic congestion mitigation
                                                           on a state highway system, and include a 40% non-
Learn more: https://www.transportation.gov/SS4A-           UDOT managed fund to be eligible for funding.
fact-sheet
                                                           Learn more: https://www.udot.utah.gov/connect/
Transportation Alternatives (TA)                           about-us/commission/project-prioritization-process/
The Transportation Alternatives (TA) Set-Aside from        Highway Safety Improvement Program (HSIP)
the Surface Transportation Block Grant (STBG) Pro-
gram funds a variety of small-scale transportation         HSIP funds are available for safety projects to re-
projects, including pedestrian and bicycle facilities,     duce traffic fatalities and serious injuries. Bike lanes,
construction of turnouts, overlooks, and viewing           roadway shoulders, crosswalks, intersection improve-
areas, community improvements, like historic preser-       ments, underpasses, and signs are examples of eligi-
vation and vegetation management; environmental            ble projects. These funds are administered through
mitigation, recreational trails, safe routes to school     the UDOT Highway and Safety Division.
projects, and vulnerable road user safety assess-
ments.                                                     Learn more: https://www.udot.utah.gov/connect/
                                                           about-us/operations/traffic-safety/
Learn more: https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/environment/
transportation_alternatives/                               Safe Sidewalk Program

The Recreational Trails Program (RTP)                      The Safe Sidewalks Program provides a legislative
                                                           funding source for the construction of new sidewalks
The Recreational Trails Program (RTP) funds the            adjacent to state routes where sidewalks do not cur-
States to develop and maintain recreational trails and     rently exist and where major construction or recon-
trail-related facilities for nonmotorized and motorized    struction of the route at that location is not planned
recreational trail uses. The RTP is the Department         for ten or more years. For a proposed sidewalk
of Transportation’s Federal Highway Administration         location to be considered for the program, it must be:
(FHWA) assistance program. Federal transportation          located adjacent to a state highway, within an urban
funds benefit recreation, including hiking, bicycling,     area, have significant pedestrian traffic, and include
in-line skating, equestrian use, cross-country skiing,     a 25% local government match. UDOT administered
snowmobiling, off-road motorcycling, all-terrain vehi-     this program.
cle riding, four-wheel driving, or using other off-road
motorized vehicles.                                        Learn more: https://www.udot.utah.gov/connect/busi-
                                                           ness/public-entities/local-government-program-assis-
Learn more: https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/environment/          tance/
recreational_trails/overview/benefits/
                                                           View regulations: https://docs.google.com/docu-
Surface Transportation Block Grant Program (STBG)          ment/d/1sfOQu5qictzKDAj0yDvSO48JFuYrZZbuYsy-
                                                           W4bbardY/edit
The Surface Transportation Block Grant program
(STBG) provides flexible funding that may be used          Safe Routes to School (SRTS) - Utah
by States and localities for projects to preserve and
improve the conditions and performance of any              The SRTS and Safe Routes Utah programs are
Federal-aid highway, bridge, and tunnel projects on        funding sources for education and infrastructure
any public road, pedestrian, and bicycle infrastructure,   improvements (e.g., sidewalks, bike parking, etc.) that
and transit capital projects, including intercity bus      encourage elementary and middle school students
terminals.                                                 to walk or bike to school. The Utah Department of
                                                           Transportation (UDOT) administers these programs
Learn more: https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/specialfunding/
stp/
                                                                                             Walk White City 75
using Federal Surface Transportation Block Grant          Alternative Funding Sources
Set-Aside funds and Highway Safety Improvement
Program funds.                                            Local Partnerships
Learn more: https://udot.utah.gov/connect/business/       Explore the possibility of creating partnerships to
public-entities/safe-routes-to-school-srts-program/       build and maintain your trail or greenway through
                                                          an “Adopt-a-Trail” program. These can be important
Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC) Transportation      for constructing and maintaining your project and
Improvement Program (TIP)                                 building community pride. Try contacting businesses
                                                          in your area to see if they offer community support
WFRC administers federal active transportation            programs. Whole Foods Market, for example, hosts
funding each year to local communities through            several five percent Community Giving Days at each
a variety of programs, including the Congestion           store annually to support the work of community
Mitigation and Air Quality (CMAQ) Program, Surface        nonprofits.
Transportation Program (STP), Transportation
Alternatives Program (TAP), and Carbon Reduction          The Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, Sierra Club, biking and
Program (CRP).                                            trail clubs, birding clubs, and local civic clubs are all
                                                          potential sources of help.
Learn more: https://wfrc.org/programs/
transportation-improvement-program/                       Public Art Funding Sources
Utah Outdoor Recreation Grant                             Many trails, such as Pittsburgh’s Steel Valley Trail
                                                          section of the Great Allegheny Passage, feature art as
The Utah Outdoor Recreation Grant is intended to          a core component. Funding sources for public art can
improve recreational opportunities by constructing        often be found at the state level; the Maryland State
trails, pathways, and other recreational amenities.       Arts Council, for example, offers a grant program
The program is administered through the Governor’s        for public art. The National Assembly of State Arts
Office of Economic Development.                           Agencies can guide you to your state’s arts agency
Learn more: https://business.utah.gov/outdoor/uorg/       with its national directory. On the federal level, one
                                                          of the most well-known resources is the National
State Class B and C Program funds                         Endowment for the Arts, which operates numerous
                                                          grant programs supporting public art. The National
Class B and C funds can be used for maintenance and       Trails Training Partnership features a section on art
construction projects, including active transportation;   for trails and greenways.
however, thirty percent of those funds must be used
for construction or maintenance projects that exceed      In-Kind Donations
$40,000. The remainder of these funds can be used
to match federal funds or pay the principal, interest,    In-kind donations can be an effective way to reduce
premiums, and reserves for issued bonds.                  project costs and engage local organizations. The
                                                          Tweetsie Trail, a 10-mile trail in Tennesee, dramatically
Learn more: https://www.udot.utah.gov/connect/            reduced project costs through in-kind donations.
business/public-entities/local-government-program-        Local construction companies donated labor to build
assistance                                                bridges for the trail; a local quarry provided the rock
                                                          for the trail’s surface, and signage companies donated
View regulations: https://drive.google.com/file/d/10Kw    the trail signs.
Ucoo9En7H8yYulOWzZxi3QnFZ6g1K/view
Community Development Block Grant (CDBG)
The Community Development Block Grant (CDBG)
Program provides annual grants on a formula basis
to states, cities, and counties to develop viable
urban communities by providing decent housing
and a suitable living environment, and by expanding
economic opportunities, principally for low- and
moderate-income persons. The State of Utah
administers the funds for cities with fewer than
50,000 residents.
Learn more: https://jobs.utah.gov/housing/
community/cdbg/index.html

76   Walk White City
Figure 7.1 summarizes the funding strategies listed above to support the funding of the White City’s
recommended project improvements. Funding sources are organized by the project categories; Capital Projects,
Ongoing Implementation, and Policy Measures.




                                                                                      Initial priorities - catalytic projects




                                                                                                                                                           Collaborative projects with




                                                                                                                                                                                             Ongoing implementation
                                                                                                                                                             local/regional partners
                                                                                                                                    Trail projects
Federal Programs
Safe Streets and Roads for All (SS4A) Grant Program                               X                                                                    X
Transportation Alternatives (TA)                                                  X                                             X                      X                                 X
Recreation Trails Program (RTP)                                                                                                 X                                                        X


State Programs
Active Transportation Investment Fund (ATIF)                                      X                                             X                      X                                 X
Highway Safety Improvement Program (HSIP)                                         X                                                                    X                                 X
Safe Sidewalk Program                                                             X                                                                    X                                 X
Safe Routes to School (SRTS) - Utah                                               X                                                                    X                                 X
Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC) Transportation Improvement Program (TIP)    X                                             X                      X                                 X
Utah Outdoor Recreation Grant                                                     X                                             X                      X                                 X
State Class B and C Program fund                                                  X                                                                    X                                 X
Community Development Block Grant (CDBG)                                                                                        X                                                        X

Figure 7.1: Funding sources and appropriate project categories for each source.




                                                                                                                                                     Walk White City 77
White City Township
Budget Report Yearly                         75.00%                          9/30/2022
                                          Actual to         FY 2022
Revenues                                  9/30/2022          Budget              Projected
Sales tax                                     658,056          635,000              700,000
Transportation sales tax                       61,660           62,500               75,000
Class C road funds                            155,437          218,000              218,000
Liquor allotment                                    -            2,800                2,800
Business licenses                               3,450            2,800                4,000
Building permits                               38,334           35,000               50,000
Other permits                                       -           10,000               10,000
Zoning-land use permits                             -                -                    -
Grants care funds                              11,933                -               11,933
ARPA funding                                        -                -                    -
Engineering services                           13,716              500               15,000
Planning services                                 350           25,000               25,000
Code enforcement fines                              -            1,500                1,500
Justice court fines                            20,066           40,000               40,000
Miscellaneous                                       -                -                    -
Interest earnings                               7,053            2,500                7,500
Transfers in                                  349,551          349,551              349,551
Total Revenues                        $    1,319,606    $    1,385,151       $ 1,510,284
Expenses - Administration
Wages                                          47,958           71,400               71,400
Employee Benefits                               9,405            5,896               10,000
Subscriptions/Memberships                       7,108            1,070   *           10,000
Printing/Publications/Advertising               1,392            1,000   *            1,500
Office expense and supplies                       442            1,070                1,070
Attorney-civil & land use                      23,058           60,000               60,000
Training and seminars                               -            1,070                1,070
Web page development/maint                          -            3,210                3,210
Software streaming                                463                -   *              500
Payroll processing fees                           731              900                  900
Communications                                    490            3,200                3,200
Contributions/special events                    9,000           28,000               28,000
Credit card and bank expenses                       -              535                  535
Insurance                                      13,406           10,000               13,500
Workers comp insurance                            121                -                  150
Postage                                         1,081                -                1,500
Professional & technical                       39,626          105,000              105,000
UFA Emergency services                          8,028           10,000               10,000
SL (Client) County support services             7,335           37,500               37,500
Cares act expenses                             11,933                -   *           11,933
ARPA expense (Move to CP)                           -                -                    -
Justice Court remediation -UPD                      -            2,700                2,700
Rent                                            1,800            2,000                2,000
Non classified expenses                             -            5,000                5,000
Total Administration                  $      183,377    $      349,551       $      380,668




                                              75.00%                              9/30/2022
                                                  Actual to         FY 2022
                                                  9/30/2022          Budget             Projected
Expenses - Transfers
Transfer to General fund                              958,122         1,035,600           1,035,600
Transfer to Capital projects                                -                 -                   -
Total Transfers                               $      958,122    $    1,035,600     $ 1,035,600

Total Expenses                                $    1,141,499    $    1,385,151     $ 1,416,268

Surplus/Deficit                               $     178,107     $              -    $     94,016


                                               Beg Balance          Expenses       Ending Balance
Cares Act Money                                       204,958            11,933            193,025
ARPA Money                                            682,646                 -            682,646

* Must spend by December 31, 2024
Cannot be used for bond payments or retirement pensions
Sandy City Fire Dept Service to White City
October, 2022
SUMMARY            Incidents    Units
Fire                   2          2
Medical                16        41
        Totals:        18        43
FIRE
Incident ID        Inc Date    Inc Code   Incident Category          Response Area    Unit Count
22-006795         10/7/2022    ALARMF     Fire Alarm                     32EF              1
22-007032         10/16/2022    ARESCU    Animal Rescue                  34DF              1
                                             Event and Units Counts:       2               2

MEDICAL
Incident ID        Inc Date    Inc Code   Incident Category           Response Area   Unit Count
22-006674         10/1/2022     19C06     Heart Issues                    32DF             2
22-006679         10/2/2022     10D02     Chest Pain                      34BF             2
22-006686         10/2/2022     17A01     Fall                            34BF             3
22-006693         10/2/2022     17B04     Fall                            34DF             2
22-006743         10/4/2022     26A11     Sick, Various Issues            34CF             3
22-006762         10/5/2022     32B02     Alarm Related                   34BF             3
22-006985         10/14/2022     09E01    Breathing Issues                34BF             5
22-007096         10/18/2022    26D01     Sick, Various Issues            34CF             2
22-007132         10/20/2022    12B01E    Breathing Issues                34CF             2
22-007153         10/21/2022    17B01     Fall                            34BF             2
22-007190         10/23/2022    10D02     Chest Pain                      34DF             2
22-007285         10/26/2022    17A04     Public Assist                   34CF             3
22-007299         10/27/2022    26D01     Sick, Various Issues            34CF             2
22-007301         10/27/2022    31D03     Breathing Issues                34AF             3
22-007314         10/28/2022    26A05     Sick, Various Issues            34CF             3
22-007384         10/30/2022    31A01     Fainting                        34AF             2
                                              Event and units Counts:      16             41
Units Sent
ME32
ME33




Units Sent
MA32, ME32
MA34, ME34
GC34, GC524, ME32
MA31, ME34
GC34, MA34, ME34
GC34, GC569, ME34
BC31, MA34, ME32, ME34, ME35
MA34, ME34
MA34, ME34
MA32, ME34
MA34, ME34
GC34, GC583, ME34
MA34, ME34
MA31, ME34, ML21
GC34, GC583, ME34
MA34, ML61
DATE            THURSDAY                               OCTOBER                            6, 2022

            THE WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL, STATE OF UTAH, MET ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2022, PURSUANT TO ADJOURNMENT ON THURSDAY,
SEPTEMBER 1, 2022, AT THE HOUR OF 6:00 P.M. THE MEETING WAS HELD AT THE WHITE
CITY WATER IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT AT 999 EAST GALENA DRIVE, WHITE CITY, 84094.

COUNCIL MEMBERS
PRESENT:                      SCOTT LITTLE
                              PHILLIP CARDENAZ
                              ALLAN PERRY
                              LINDA PRICE
                              PAULINA FLINT, Mayor

OTHERS IN ATTENDANCE: PAUL ASHTON, LEGAL COUNSEL
                      RORI ANDREASON, ADMINISTRATOR
                      NICHOLE WATT, DEPUTY CLERK

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
               Mayor Paulina Flint, Chair, presided.

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                                            Workshop

Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District 2023 Budget and Proposed Fee Increase

              Pam Roberts, General Manager, Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District
(WFWRD) presented a PowerPoint presentation reviewing the 2023 budget priorities, that
includes a $2.50 per home per month fee increase, various services provided to residents,
continuous improvements on efficiencies using technologies on equipment. Alternate fuels will
continue to be used to keep costs low and it continues to find ways to expand the Seasonal
Container Reservation Program (SCRP) at the lowest cost possible. Hiring and retaining CDL
drivers remains a challenge and effects SCRP.

               Mayor Flint stated there was an issue with reserving dumpsters for SCRP. By the
time residents received the notice in the mail, reservations for dumpsters were already open and
all the dumpsters were reserved. Reservations need to be open after the notice is mailed and
received by residents. There also needs to be a system in place to disperse dumpsters more
evenly throughout the community. There will be areas with a lot of dumpsters and then areas with
none.

                 Council Member Price asked if there is a way to provide one dumpster per
neighborhood or have a way to make a dumpster available if a resident does not need it for the
full length of the reservation.

                Ms. Roberts stated it depends on staffing and right now there is a limited number
of drivers. Full-time drivers are being pulled from their routes and coming in on their days off to
help with SCRP. She is working with her team to address the timing of the postcards and when
reservations will open for dumpsters.


                                                1
DATE            THURSDAY                              OCTOBER                             6, 2022

               Council Member Little stated he would like dumpsters to be placed back on the
streets.

                  Ms. Roberts stated when dumpsters are placed on the street, the public deems
that dumpster theirs and landscapers and construction companies use those dumpsters. There
are also issues with scavengers going through the dumpsters. There are staffing concerns at the
landfill as well.

              Council Member Little stated the increase is reasonable if the same service is
being provided to every resident.

                Ms. Roberts reviewed a PowerPoint presentation reviewing cost increases since
the last fee increase in 2018 and WFWRD’s cash projections for 2022-2026.

               Council Member Perry stated having the dumpsters in the street is more
convenient. He suggested putting a sign on the dumpsters stating it is a community dumpster and
to ask your neighbor if you can dump garbage in the container.

               The workshop meeting was closed.

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                                       Business Meeting


White City Financial Report

               Mayor Flint stated the budget report is the Council’s packet.

               Paul Ashton stated revenue numbers are coming in higher and expenses are
lower than anticipated.

               Council Member Price, seconded by Council Member Cardenaz, moved to accept
the White City Metro Township Financial Report. The motion passed unanimously.

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Unified Fire Authority

Unified Fire Authority

                Captain Ken Aldridge provided an update on construction projects. Midvale Fire
Station is nearing completion and a notification will be sent for the grand opening. In September,
13 individuals entered into the leadership workshop, there were 8 promotions, and 2 individuals
retired.


Sandy Fire Quarterly Report



                                                2
DATE            THURSDAY                              OCTOBER                             6, 2022

               Chief Bruce Cline stated the entire valley had a good 4th and 24th of July. He
reviewed the quarterly report. On December 15, 2022, he will be retiring and is currently going
through the process of hiring his replacement.

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Unified Police Department

              Chief Randy Thomas stated Detective Jeff Fenton has accepted a new position
in the Domestic Violence Investigation Unit. He introduced Detective Josh Smith who will be
replacing Detective Fenton.

               Detective Jeff Fenton reviewed call statistics for the month of September stating
vehicles burglaries remain high. The speed trailer is westbound on Larkspur.

              Detective Josh Smith introduced himself. He has been working in law
enforcement for 11 years. He has served on the Community Intelligent Unit with Salt Lake City,
has knowledge in community policing, and has worked with councils and community members.

              Chief Thomas stated Detective Smith has code enforcement experience. The
non-emergency phone number to VECC is 801-840-4000. The previous number will now be used
as an administrative line.

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Public Comments

               Kent McClure suggested that the Council pass an ordinance to eliminate street
parking.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−

             Nicole Thompson stated Officer Michael Bendixen, Unified Police Department,
has been doing a great job enforcing the 4-way stop.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
             Trey Nelson asked if the Planning Commission still meets. He has not seen a
meeting scheduled for them and he has some questions regarding his property.

               Mayor Flint suggested that Mr. Nelson go to the Greater Salt Lake Municipal
Services District (MSD) website. There is contact information for various departments that will be
able to answer questions regarding what can be done to his property.

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Action Items


                                                3
DATE            THURSDAY                              OCTOBER                            6, 2022

Minutes

               Council Member Price, seconded by Council Member Cardenaz, moved to accept
the minutes of the White City Metro Township Council meeting held on September 1, 2022. The
motion passed unanimously.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
2023 White City Metro Township Fee Schedule

              Brian Tucker, Planning Manager, Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
(MSD), stated a study is being planned for the 2024 fee schedule. He has gone through the fee
schedule and amended it so that it makes more sense, including the elimination of some fees.
The fee schedule includes Planning and Development, Health Department, and Engineering
service fees

                  Paul Ashton stated the 2023 fee schedule does not need to be adopted tonight,
it is part of the budget process. If the Council has any comments, get them to Rori Andreason or
himself as soon as possible.

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Council Reports

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD)

               Mayor Flint stated the MSD is finalizing its 2023 budget. There will be a public
hearing in October. There is still an issue with the Justice Courts, and she is not sure where its
budget will end up. The MSD is joining Salt Lake County to complete an audit. Funds will not be
approved until the MSD knows where the funds have been spent. Salt Lake County has officially
transferred Big Bear Park to White City Metro Township. There is an agreement that the attorney’s
are reviewing. As soon as the agreement is approved, the White City Metro Township Council will
have the opportunity to review and approve it.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Unified Fire Authority (UFA) & Unified Fire Service Area (UFSA)

               Council Member Perry stated UFA and UFSA are entering into an agreement
with the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to use its training. This will provide joint training
options and should be a good partnership. UFA received the Government Finance Officers
Association’s (GFOA) Distinguished Budget Presentation Award.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
South Salt Lake Valley Mosquito Abatement District




                                                4
DATE           THURSDAY                             OCTOBER                          6, 2022

              Council Member Price stated most of the ground crew has been let go for the
season. The District treated for mosquitos less this year because of the snow pack. There was
another case of West Nile Virus in a human.

                                   −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Unified Police Department (UPD) & Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area (SLVLESA)

               Council Member Cardenaz stated UPD hired five new officers. The Midvale
Mayor has requested that an independent study be completed to determine how funds are being
spent and what resources are being used. SLVLESA is trying to get a sense on what
municipalities are interested in using its franchise tax to help offset costs for SLVLESA.

                                   −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District (WFWRD)

               Council Member Little stated the fee increase is only reasonable if the same
service is provided to all residents like it was in 2018. The bulk waste program needs to be
improved where it is available to everyone or adjust the way the fees are charged.

                                   −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Salt Lake County Animal Services

              Nothing to report.

                                   ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                                   ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                                   ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

              THERE BEING NO FURTHER BUSINESS to come before the Council at this time,
the meeting was adjourned.



                                     ___________________________________________
                                     MAYOR
                                     WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL


SHERRIE SWENSEN
METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK



By ________________________________
       Deputy Clerk

                                             5
DATE   THURSDAY                OCTOBER   6, 2022



                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦




                           6
DATE            THURSDAY                                OCTOBER                            22, 2022

            THE WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL, STATE OF UTAH, MET ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2022, PURSUANT TO ADJOURNMENT ON THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 6, 2022, AT THE HOUR OF 6:00 P.M. THE MEETING WAS HELD AT THE WHITE
CITY WATER IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT AT 999 EAST GALENA DRIVE, WHITE CITY, 84094.

COUNCIL MEMBERS
PRESENT:                       SCOTT LITTLE
                               PHILLIP CARDENAZ
                               ALLAN PERRY
                               LINDA PRICE
                               PAULINA FLINT, Mayor

OTHERS IN ATTENDANCE: PAUL ASHTON, LEGAL COUNSEL
                      RORI ANDREASON, ADMINISTRATOR
                      NICHOLE WATT, DEPUTY CLERK

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
               Mayor Paulina Flint, Chair, presided.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                                    Special Workshop Meeting

Upgrade and Construction of Sego Lily Drive

               Ryan Nuesmeyer, Project Manager, Wall Consultant Group (WCG), presented a
PowerPoint presentation regarding the Sego Lily transportation improvements. He reviewed the
progress of the project. The survey and ROW research, survey control and high resolution aerial
imagery, and safety and operations review has been completed. Utility mapping and pavement
design and report are in progress and the roadway design is ready.

                 Mayor Flint asked if connecting roads were going to tie into Sego Lily so that the
road is not different heights. If there is a problem once the road is graded to where it needs to be,
who is the contact if there is a problem.

              Mr. Nuesmeyer stated if there are known trouble spots, let him know, he will then
weigh out what options there are to fix the road, depending on how much money is available.

               The following recommendations were recommended and discussed:

    Sidewalks

                  Mr. Nuesmeyer stated Sego Lily east of Flint have existing sidewalks. Sidewalks
will be the first to be installed.

    Consolidated crosswalks
    Raised crosswalks



                                                 1
DATE             THURSDAY                               OCTOBER                           22, 2022

               Mr. Nuesmeyer stated crosswalks at Antimony Lane, Hosta Lane, and 1280 East
will be removed. If there are too many crosswalks next to each other, people will begin to disregard
them. The four remaining crosswalks will be located at Galena Drive, Trail Crossing with a raised
crosswalk, Flint Drive with a Rectangular rapid-flashing beacon (RRFB), and Marble Street. The
raised crosswalk will help with visibility, and it slows traffic.

                 Council Member Price asked if the coloring will be different.

                 Mr. Nuesmeyer stated yes, crosswalk lines will be added.

    RRFB

               Mr. Nuesmeyer stated an RRFB will be added at the trail crossing, another one
will be added at the Flint Drive crosswalk.

                 Mayor Flint stated the old solar powered signs do not work.

            Mr. Nuesmeyer stated the RRFB’s can be hard wired. He will work with Rocky
Mountain Power to get lighting.

    Bulb-outs

               Mr. Nuesmeyer stated bulb-outs narrow the road and slows drivers down. Each
crosswalk location will have a bulb-out. Drivers cannot park next to a bulb-out, they will have to
park further down. That will create better site distance for pedestrians and drivers.

    Bike lanes

                 Mr. Nuesmeyer stated there have been five bike accidents in five years which is
a lot of auto/bike accidents.

                Mayor Flint stated residents want parking on the road, if bike lanes are added, the
street is narrowed even more.

               Mr. Nuesmeyer stated adding bike lanes will slow traffic by 13 percent.
Connectivity is a popular option right now.

                Mayor Flint stated the MSD has received $40 million in grants because
municipalities comply with walkability, bike, and trail plans.

             Shane Ellis, Transportation Engineering Manager, Salt Lake County Engineering
and Flood Control, stated it is easier to get grant money, if you add active transportation to the
community.

                Council Member Perry stated electric bikes, bicycles, and scooters are being
used more. Sego Lily takes riders to the Trax station, library, and schools. Designing a road to
last up to 50 years, it would be foolish not offer this option.

                 Mr. Nuesmeyer stated the benefit of bike lanes for parked cars is the buffer a bike
lane provides.

                                                  2
DATE            THURSDAY                                OCTOBER                           22, 2022


               Council Member Little stated his concerns are funding the bike lanes. The project
is already going to be over budget and there are added costs to create bike lanes. Even if a
funding source is located, the road will still need to be widen and trees will need to be removed.
Citizens are going to be upset.

              Mr. Nuesmeyer stated he is aware of the trees and is mindful of property. There
are a few reasons to consider bike lanes; it will improve the corridor by making it consistent and
encourage slower speeds.

    Green paint

               Mr. Nuesmeyer stated he encourages the Council to consider 6-feet wide
sidewalks that will allow pedestrians to stay a foot off the curb.

               Mayor Flint stated there are rights-of-way that were put in place 100 years ago
that need to be protected. There are agreements made in perpetuity.

              Mr. Nuesmeyer stated as stewards of the public rights-of-way, the Council needs
to determine what it wants that space to look like.

             Mayor Flint stated White City’s image will be enhanced. With traffic being funneled
through Sego Lily, the Council needs to show a forward pace into the future and make it more
livable.

               Mr. Ellis stated if construction is inside the existing gutters or moving into the
yards; every tree, fence, or bush will be affected. If those areas are affected regardless, then the
project should be done right.

               Council Member Price asked if the homes would lose on-street parking.

               Mr. Nuesmeyer stated no, on-street parking will be available everywhere there
are not bulb-outs.

               Council Member Price asked if lighting has been included in the project.

               Mr. Nuesmeyer stated the plan is to include lighting.

               Mr. Ellis stated lighting will be included from 700 East to 1300 East.

               Council Member Cardenaz asked what the spacing of the lights will be and how
many lights are included.

               Mr. Nuesmeyer stated the lighting design has not been completed.

               Mr. Ashton asked if the Council would like to hold a public meeting to present the
project plan. Mr. Nuesmeyer cannot move forward until he gets direction from the Council to do
so.




                                                 3
DATE            THURSDAY                               OCTOBER                           22, 2022

              Council Member Little stated this project is looking at what is wanted versus what
there is money for. Road maintenance for other roads cannot be ignored.

               Mayor Flint stated the Sego Lily project has been bonded for, there is $500,000
in grant funds available and the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD) will fund the
balance for any shortfall.

               Mr. Ashton stated once the design is determined, Mr. Nuesmeyer can provide a
cost.

              Council Member Little stated residents will want to make sure their roads are
being maintained and fixed.

                Mayor Flint stated road maintenance comes from another budget. The Sego Lily
project has its own set of funding. She would like to showcase the project and have various boards
set up around the room for residents to view.

               Mr. Nuesmeyer stated WCG has an outreach department and has addresses for
residents along Sego Lily.

               Mr. Ashton asked if the Council feels good about the design that was presented
today.

               Mayor Flint, Council Members Perry, and Cardenaz support the current design.

                 Mr. Nuesmeyer recommended getting the design to 30 percent completion before
it presents it to the public. During the public meeting he can roll out a map where everyone can
view it.

               Mayor Flint stated she would like an open house type public meeting.

               Council Member Little stated he would like the plan presented to the residents
with a question period after.

              Mr. Nuesmeyer stated it will take him approximately 30-45 days to get to a 30
percent design phase.

               Council Member Little stated he supports the design but has concerns about the
bike lanes.

               Council Member Price stated she supports the design but also has concerns
about the bike lanes. She asked when the project will go to bid.

               Mr. Ellis stated after the design phase is complete, the bid process will begin.

               Mr. Ashton recommended holding the public meeting on January 12, 2023.

             Rori Andreason stated she will notice the meeting for January 12, 2023, from 6:00
pm – 8:00 pm with the presentation beginning at 6:30 pm.



                                                4
DATE          THURSDAY                          OCTOBER                      22, 2022

                             ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                             ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                             ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

              THERE BEING NO FURTHER BUSINESS to come before the Council at this time,
the meeting was adjourned.



                                 ___________________________________________
                                 MAYOR
                                 WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL


SHERRIE SWENSEN
METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK



By ________________________________
       Deputy Clerk


                             ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

                             ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

                             ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦




                                          5
                            WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP



RESOLUTION NO.: 2 2 - 1 1 - 0 1                               DATE: November 10, 2022



              A RESOLUTION OF THE WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP
                 COUNCIL APPROVING THE 2023 WHITE CITY METRO
            TOWNSHIP TENTATIVE BUDGET AND SETTING THE PUBLIC
             HEARING FOR PUBLIC COMMENT AND A POSSIBLE FINAL
                                ADOPTION OF THE BUDGET




                                            RECITALS

    WHEREAS, the White City Metro Township ("White City") is a Municipality pursuant to
Utah Code§§ 10-2a-401 et seq.; and

    WHEREAS, the White City Metro Township Council (the "Council") is the municipal
legislative body for White City pursuant to Utah Code§ 10-3b-501; and

   WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code§§ 10-6-111 et al, White City is required to prepare an
annual tentative budget for consideration, possible amendment, and tentative adoption; and

    WHEREAS, the budget and related supporting documents shall be made available for public
inspection no later than ten (10) days prior to the public hearing for the budget pursuant to Utah
Code §§ 10-6-112 et al; now therefore be it

                                            RESOLUTION

   RESOLVED, the Council hereby approves the 2023 White City Tentative Budget, attached
to this resolution as listed as "Attachment-Budget" and sets the date, time, and place for the
Public Hearing to be as follows:

   PLACE: White City Water Improvement District Offices - Board Room 999 East Galena
Drive White City, Utah 84094

   DATE: December 1, 2022

   TIME: 6:00PM; and be it further
   RESOLVED, that a notice of the Public Hearing for the 2023 White City Tentative Budget
be printed a newspaper of general circulation and posted to the Utah Public Meeting Notice
Website https://www. utah.gov/pmn / no later than November 21, 2022; and be it further

   RESOLVED, copies of the 2023 White City Tentative Budget be available for public
inspection no later than November 21, 2022 at the Salt Lake County Clerk's Office, located at
2001 South State St Suite N2-700 Salt Lake City, Utah 84114, attached to the Notice of Public
Hearing on the Utah Public Meeting Notice Website https://www. utah.gov/pmn / and posted to
the White City Metro Township Website: www.whitecity-ut.org for public inspection.


   APPROVED AND ADOPTED in the White City Metro Township, Salt Lake County, Utah
this 10th day of November 2022.




                                                   By:
                                                           PAULINA F. FLINT, MAYOR


ATTEST                                                     APPROVED AS TO FORM:


                                                         __________________________
SHERRIE SWENSEN
SALT LAKE COUNTY CLERK                                     METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY
METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER


VOTING
MAYOR FLINT                                ___________
COUNCIL MEMBER PRICE                       ___________
COUNCIL MEMBER LITTLE                      ___________
COUNCIL MEMBER CARDENAZ                    ___________
COUNCIL MEMBER PERRY                       ___________
                                      Administration
                                      White City Township
                                            FY 2023

Administration    SUMMARY                                         Final         Tentative
                                                Actual           Budget          Budget       %
                                               FY 2021          FY 2022         FY 2023      Diff.
             Account Name
Wages                                      $       20,414   $      71,400   $       66,000     -7.6%
Employee benefits                                   3,436           5,896            5,462     -7.4%
Subscriptions, memberships                            513           1,070            4,070    280.4%
Printing/publications/advertising                   2,754           1,000            2,500    150.0%
Office expense and supplies                           622           1,070            1,070      0.0%
Attorney-civil                                     39,138          60,000           75,000     25.0%
Attorney-land use                                   2,548               -                -      0.0%
Training and seminars                                 295           1,070            1,070      0.0%
Web page development/maintenance                    2,800           3,210            3,210      0.0%
Software/streaming                                    506               -                -      0.0%
Payroll processing fees                             1,041             900              900      0.0%
Communications                                          -           3,200            3,200      0.0%
Contributions/special events                       10,001          28,000           38,000     35.7%
Credit card and bank expenses                           -             535              535      0.0%
Insurance                                           9,795          10,000           10,000      0.0%
Workers comp insurance                                  -               -                -      0.0%
Postage                                               974               -                -      0.0%
Professional and technical                         48,692         105,000           86,400    -17.7%
UFA emergency services                             10,085          10,000           11,448     14.5%
SL (Client) county support services                10,177          37,500           50,000     33.3%
Justice court remediation                               -           2,700            2,700      0.0%
Rent                                                1,698           2,000            2,400     20.0%
Non classified expenses                                 4           5,000            5,000      0.0%
Totals:                                    $      165,493   $     349,551   $      368,965      5.6%




                                           Page 1 of 1                                               11/4/2022
               FY 2022 BUDGET ADJUSTMENTS

White City Metro Township
Budget Adjustments (Year End)
12/08/2022

General Fund                     Debit            Credit
4100.242      Cares2 Expenses            15,000
4100-299      Fund Balance                             15,000
Additional care expenses
                     2023




Final Fee Schedule
        2023
Contents
Addressing Fee Schedule ................................................................................................................................ 2
Business License Fees ...................................................................................................................................... 3
Building Permit Fees .......................................................................................................................................... 4
Additional Building Permit Fees.......................................................................................................................... 6
Building Type Rate Valuation Table ................................................................................................................... 7
Supplemental Building Type Rate Valuation Table ............................................................................................. 8
Building and Inspection Fees ............................................................................................................................. 9
S.W.P.P.P. Fee, Penalty and Fine Schedules .................................................................................................. 10
Land Use Fees Schedule ................................................................................................................................. 12
Code Enforcement Fees Schedule ................................................................................................................... 15
Bond Fees Schedule........................................................................................................................................ 15
Additional Fee Schedule .................................................................................................................................. 16
Fees collected for the Engineering Division ...................................................................................................... 17
Glossary .......................................................................................................................................................... 19




                                                                                  1
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Service District
The White City Metro Township contracts with the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD) to
provide planning and zoning, building permit, business license, and code enforcement services. The MSD
provides these services on behalf of and under the direction of White City.
NOTE: Fees and Fines will be applied as approved and set forth in this schedule. The Chief Building Official
or Director of Planning and Development may on occasion adjust fees/fines in unique circumstances up to
$1,500 per application. The MSD’s General Manager may do the same up to $5,000. These adjustments must
be documented and reported on if requested. Adjustments over $5,000 require approval of the governing body
of the jurisdiction to which the application pertains.

Addressing Fee Schedule

              Service                                            Service Detail                                            Fee

                                                                                                                Flat Fee     *Per Lot

 Assignment of Address (A-1)            Provide assignment of address information on                            $100.00      $40.00
                                        recorded subdivision plat and/or for individual
                                        parcel/building addresses. Ensure address information
                                        meets addressing standards and address information
                                        is suitable for mail delivery, public safety, utility
                                        services and general delivery of services. The per lot
                                        fee does not apply to Accessory Dwelling Units (ADU).
 Street Name Change (A-2)               Confirm petition meets required number of signatures.                   $250.00      $50.00
                                        Document street name change and address change
                                        for each property along street by filing an affidavit with
                                        the Salt Lake County Recorder's Office. Notify the
                                        property owner, public safety dispatch and the Salt
                                        Lake County Treasurer of the address/street name
                                        change.

 * Per lot fee is an addition to flat fee. For example, Assignment of Address fee for a single lot would be $100 + $40.
   For more than a one lot, the fee would be $100 + (number of lots x $40).




                                                                    2
Planning and Development Services
Business License Fees
Services                         Fee Activity Detail                    Fee
Licensing Fees                   General License Fee                    $150.00

                                 Per Employee Fee                       $6.00

                                 Seasonal License                       $120.00

                                 Solicitor ID                           $65.00

                                 Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU)          $50.00
                                 License

                                 Sexually Oriented Business -           $300.00
                                 excluding Outcall Services

                                 Outcall Service Businesses             $500.00
                                 Late renewal penalty if renewed 31-60 25% of General License Fee
                                 days after expiration (no penalty if
                                 renewed within 30 days of expiration).
                                 Paid in addition to General License Fee.
                                 Late renewal penalty if renewed more     100% of General License Fee
                                 than 60 days after expiration. Paid in
                                 addition to General License Fee.
                                 Application Withdrawal Fee               25% of License Fee
Alcohol Related Licensing Fees   Single Event                           $150.00

                                 Off-Premise Beer Retailer              $250.00

                                 Beer-Only Restaurant                   $350.00

                                 On-Premise Beer Tavern                 $350.00

                                 Resort                                 $500.00

                                 Wholesale Beer                         $300.00

                                 Restaurant Liquor                      $500.00

                                 Manufacturing                          $350.00
                                 Recreational On-Premise Beer           $350.00
                                 Retailer
                                 Limited Restaurant Liquor              $500.00

                                 Club Liquor                            $600.00

                                 Banquet & Catering                     $500.00




                                                  3
Planning and Development Services
Building Permit Fees
       Services                   Fee Activity Detail                                Fee
Administrative Fees   Canceled Building Permit Fee (when no work       25% of Building Permit Fee or
                      has commenced)                                   $200, whichever is lower
                      Building w/o permit.                          2x Building Permit Fee plus $50 per
                                                                    day (commencing 10 business days
                                                                    after notice of violation), or 1% of
                                                                    Building Permit Fee per day,
                                                                    whichever is less
                      Reinstatement Fee (if permit has been expired ½ of Building Permit Fee
                      more than 30 business days)
                      Reinstatement Fee (Final Inspections Only)    $200.00, or ½ of original Building
                                                                    Permit Fee, whichever is less
State Surcharge       Applicable State Surcharge on all Permits     1% of Building Fee
Inspection Fees       Reinspection                                     $50.00

                      Pre-Inspection (post fire or disaster)           $70.00

                      Overtime/After Hour (per hour)                   See hourly rate

                      Multi-unit Inspection                            $100.00
Permit Types          Building Permit Fee                              Based on calculated square
                                                                       footage and the current ICC
                                                                       valuation tables, or declared
                                                                       valuation when square footage
                                                                       determinations not practical or
                                                                       possible as reasonably determined
                                                                       by Director or Designee
                      Demolition Fee                                   Based on declared valuation of
                                                                       demolition work.
                      Mechanical, Plumbing & Electrical Permits        $70.00
                      (Circuit, Electrical Service Charge, Power to
                      Panel, Temporary Panel), Reroof (Shingles)
                      Additional appliance, fixture, etc.              $20.00

                      Grading Permit                                   Based on valuation tables

                      Retaining Wall                                   Based on valuation tables

                      Mobile Home Setup Permit                         $200.00

Plan Check            All building permit plan check fees include
                      up to 4 reviews. Additional reviews will incur
                      additional costs billed at the Hourly Plan
                      Check Fee rate.
                      Grading Plan Check                               40% of Grading Permit Fee
                                                                       (residential) or 60% of Grading
                                                                       Permit Fee (commercial). $100.00
                                                                       minimum fee

                                                  4
Planning and Development Services
Building Permit Fees
                Hourly Plan Check Fee                             See hourly rate

                Plan Check Fee (FCOZ)                             65% of Building Permit Fee

                Land-Use Review Fee                               $110.00
                Card File plan check fee (listed as plan          $150.00
                check fee) – single-family residential or
                multi-family duplex only (including
                accessory structures to those buildings)
                Card File plan check fee (listed as plan          $1,000.00
                check fee) – all other multi-family residential
                Plan Check Fee for smaller projects               $100.00

                Plan Check Fee (Res)                              40% of Building Permit Fee.
                                                                  $100.00 minimum fee
                Plan Check Fee (Com)                              65% of Building Permit Fee;
                                                                  $100.00 minimum fee




                                           5
Planning and Development Services
Additional Building Permit Fees

Services                            Fee Activity Detail                 Fee
Solar—Residential and Small         Base Permit Cost (Charged with      $70.00
Commercial Projects less than or    KWA fee
equal to 20 KWA*                    KWA (Additional Permit Cost per     $30.00
                                    KWA being produced)
                                    Plan Check                          40% of Solar Permit Fee
                                                                        (residential); 60% of Solar Permit Fee
                                                                        (commercial) $150.00 minimum
                                    Battery Storage System per          $2.00
                                    battery
                                    *Other fees may apply depending on extent of information to check
Solar—Large commercial (e.g.        Permit Fee                          Based on applicant’s declared
solar farms or other large scale                                        valuation as reasonably determined
systems greater than 20 KWA))                                           by Director or Designee and/or
                                                                        applicable valuation table
                                    Plan Check                          65% of the Building Permit Fee

Reroof Permits                      Reroof with Sheathing (decking)     $110.00

                                    Reroof fee (without sheathing)      $70.00
                                    Reroof (Com)
                                    based on valuation below
                                    $1-$9,999                           $150.00

                                    $10,000-$49,999                     $300.00

                                    $50,000-and up                      $500.00
 Window and Door                                                        $70.00
 (Replacement with no other work)   Window and Door (Res)
                                                                        Based on valuation – permit fee
                                                                        calculation based on declared
                                    Window and Door (Com)
                                                                        value and normal building permit
                                                                        fee calculation




                                                     6
Planning and Development Services
Building Type Rate Valuation Table
Square Foot Construction Costs
(These valuations shall be updated automatically as the new standards are published
by ICC, which is usually twice per year)




                                        7
Planning and Development Services
Supplemental Building Type Rate Valuation Table
(These supplemental valuations may be updated annually as part of the annual fee approval process)

 Type                                Unit                                Valuation Per Unit

 Unfinished basements                Square Foot                         $24.00
 Basements Finished                  Square Foot                         $41.00
 Decks (any type)                    Square Foot                         $22.00
 Carport/Covered Patio               Square Foot                         $22.00
 Roof Conversions                    Square Foot                         $22.00
 Fence (any type)                    Lineal Foot                         $20.00
 Retaining Wall (any type)           Lineal Foot                         $59.00
 Exterior Finish                     Square Foot                         $5.00
 Fire Sprinklers                     Square Foot                         $6.00
 Remodel/Alteration                  Square Foot                         $39.00
 Basement TI                         Square Foot                         $28.00
 Grading                             Cubic Yard Cut and Fill             Equation
 Tenant Improvement                  Calculated                          35% of the valuation for new
                                                                         construction
 Shell Only                          Calculated                          80% of the valuation for new
                                                                         construction




                                                     8
Planning and Development Services
Building and Inspection Fees
Fees based on total valuation rate
        Services               Fee Activity Detail                          Fee
                           Less than $2,000           $24.00 for the first $500 plus $3.50 for each
                                                      additional $100 or fraction thereof, to and
                                                      including $2,000.
                           $2,000 to $25,000          $76.50 for the first $2,000 plus $16.50 for
                                                      each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof, to
                                                      and including $25,000.
                           $25,000 to $50,000         $456.00 for the first $25,000 plus $12.00 for
                                                      each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof, to
                                                      and including $50,000.
      Total Valuation      $50,000 to $100,000        $765.00 for the first $50,000 plus $8.50 for
                                                      each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof, to
                                                      and including $100,000.
                           $100,000 to $500,000       $1,181.00 for the first $100,000 plus $6.50 for
                                                      each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof, to
                                                      and including $500,000.
                           $500,000 to $1,000,000     $3,781.00 for the first $500,000 plus $5.50 for
                                                      each additional $1,000 or fraction
                                                      thereof, to and including $1,000,000.
                           Over $1,000,000            $6,531.00 for the first $1,000,000 plus $4.50
                                                      for each additional $1,000 or fraction
                                                      thereof.




                                                  9
Planning and Development Services
S.W.P.P.P. Fee, Penalty and Fine Schedules
Services            Fee Activity Detail                                        Fee
                    Base Fee per project
                                                                               $200.00
S.W.P.P.P
                    Plus per acre                                              $50.00
Control Measure     All Penalty and fines are subject to Double Fee's for second offense, third
Fines               offense; maybe turn over to District Attorney for further action.
                    Primary Boundary Control - Per day per violation           $1,000.00

                    Secondary Boundary Control - Per day per violation         $500.00
                    Exit Control - Per day per violation                       $500.00
                    Waste Control - Per day per violation                      $500.00
                    Material Storage Control - Per day per violation           $250.00
                    Fugitive Dust Control - Per day per violation              $250.00
                    Safety Control - Per day per violation                     $250.00
                    Plan administration (Each LDP requires SWPPP
                    administration and written documentation such as but not
                    limited to; inspections, training, SWPPP amendments,       $1,000.00
                    closeout documents etc.)
                    Working without a permit (Per day Per violation/ Subject to  $1,000.00
                    Double fee's)
Illicit Discharge   Storm water violation schedule for illicit discharges common to construction
                    and maintenance activities. It is a violation to discharge pollutants. The
                    presence of BMPs does not excuse an illicit discharge.
                    Illicit discharges are divided into the following categories
                    Sediment - Per day per violation                            $1,000.00
                    Cementations material - Per day per violation               $500.00
                    Paints and Solvents - Per day per violation                 $500.00
                    Solid Waste - Per day per violation                         $500.00
                    Sanitary Waste - Per day per violation                      $2,000.00
                    Fuels - Per day per violation                               $1,000.00
                    Fertilizers - Per day per violation                         $500.00
                    Organics - Per day per violation                            $250.00
                    Cleansers - Per day per violation                           $500.00
                    Hazardous material                                          $5,000.00
                    Any illicit discharge could be bumped to this category
                    depending on the impact.

Floodplain          A floodplain development permit is required for development within the
Development         floodplain as required by FEMA



                                                  10
Planning and Development Services
S.W.P.P.P. Fee, Penalty and Fine Schedules
                 Floodplain Development Permit. Required for all   $50.00
                 development within a mapped flood plain.




                                           11
Planning and Development Services
Land Use Fees Schedule
Review Process               Fee Activity Detail                                                 Fee
Agency Review Meeting        Required for:                                                       $455.00
                             • All new FCOZ Development
                             • All development proposals which will require more than one
                                land use approval process.
                             • As requested by an applicant for

                                Conditional Use
                                Permitted Use
                                PUD (Planned Unit Development)
                                SFD in FCOZ (Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone)
                                Subdivision


Permitted Uses               Staff Site Plan Review; Reviews which require an Agency             $535.00
(Administrative Decisions,   Review from other agencies. Includes 4 reviews. Any additional
Staff Decision)              reviews will incur an additional plan review fee of $535.00.
                             • Permitted Uses when agency review is required
                             • SFD in FCOZ(Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone)
                             • New Comprehensive Sign Plan
                             Staff Reviews requiring limited Agency Review from other            $175.00
                             agencies.
                             • Accessory Dwelling Units
                             • Condominium Conversion
                             • Home Daycare or Pre-School
                             • Lot line adjustment [18.18.020]
                             • Lot Consolidation [18.08.020]
                             • Minor Site Plan Amendments
                             • Modify a Cell Tower
                             • Non-Complying Structure [19.88.150]
                             • Mobile Store
                             Staff Reviews approved per a request for an Agency Review for       $110.00
                             a Building Permit or Business License.
                             • Change of Use (Tenant Change (Permitted) or a Conditional
                                 Use which is subordinate to a Previously Approved
                                 Conditional Use)
                             • Home Business
                             • Permitted Uses with no agency review
                             • SFD in an approved subdivision (Non-FCOZ)
                                 Sign Permits needing Administrative
                                 Approval
                             Development Services Director Review                                $275.00
                             • Extension of Time - Subdivision
                             • Extension of Time - Conditional Use
                             • Administrative Determination (For uses not listed in the zoning
                                 ordinance)




                                                   12
Land Use Fees Schedule Continued

Continued: Permitted Uses    Final Approval /Technical Review/ An Agency Review             $535.00
(Administrative Decisions,   Includes 4 reviews. Any additional reviews will incur an
Staff Decision)              additional plan review fee of $535.00.
                                 • Boundary Line Adjustments [18.18.020] (Lot Line
                                    Adjustment or Lot Consolidation)
                                 • Conditional Use Technical Review [19.84.095)
                                 • PUD (Planned Unit Development) [19.84.095)
                                 • Subdivision Final Plat
Public Body Review           Planning Commission Meeting [19.05.040]                        $650.00
                                 • Conditional Uses
                                 • Waiver of FCOZ Standards [19.72.060.B and C]
                                 • PUD (Planned Unit Development) [19.84)
                                 • Special Exception to have Use Violation declared legal
                                     (19.88.140)
                                 • Sign Permits needing Conditional Use approval
                                 • Subdivisions and PUD (Preliminary Plat)
                                 • Re-Zone
                                 • General Plan Amendment
                             Mayor’s Meeting (Planning Commission’s recommendation          $115.00
                             to the Mayor)
                                 • Subdivision Amendment to create additional lots (608
                                     hearing) (18.8.040)

                             Council Meeting: (Planning Commission's recommendation         $115.00
                             to the Council.
                                 • General Plan and General Plan Amendment Ordinances
                                 • Re-Zone up to 10 Acres (Zoning Map Amendment)
                                 • Takings Relief Petition [19.93.040]




                                                  13
Land Use Fees Schedule Continued

                           Council Meeting (Continued)
                              • Text Amendment                                                $300.00
                              • Base fee for Zoning Map Amendment or General Plan             $1,500.00
                                  Amendment (base) greater than 10 acres (base); per acre     plus per
                                  fee starts with the 11th acre                               acre fee
                              • Greater than 10 and less than 50 Acres                        Base Fee
                                                                                              plus
                                                                                              $200.00
                                                                                              per acre
                              •   50 to 100 Acres                                             Base Fee
                                                                                              plus
                                                                                              $300.00
                                                                                              per acre
                              •   Larger than 100 acres                                       To be
                                                                                              determined
                                                                                              by funding
                                                                                              agreement
                                                                                              between
                                                                                              local
                                                                                              government
                                                                                              agency and
                                                                                              Applicant
                                                                                              prior to
                                                                                              acceptance
                                                                                              of the
                                                                                              application
Land Use Hearing Officer      •   Appeals of Conditional Use Decisions [19.92.030]            $1,000.00
Review                        •   Appeals of a zoning decision or interpretation
                                  [19.92.050]
                              •   Special Exceptions [19.92.060]
                                      o Adjusting a zone boundary line
                                      o Enlargement or addition to a noncomplying
                                          structure
                                      o Relocation or reconstruction of a noncomplying
                                          structure
                              •   Variances from the terms of the zoning ordinance
                                  [19.92.040]
                              •   Appeal of a final decision on a Subdivision [18.08.040]
                              •   Appeals of a waiver or modification decision
                                  [19.72.060.C.9]
                              •   Taking Relief Petition

                              Note: In the case of appeals: if the Land Use Hearing Officer
                              finds in favor of the appellant/applicant then the $1000.00
                              shall be refunded less a $100.00 administration fee. (To be
                              clear $900.00 shall be refunded).
                              • Double fee (if construction has started) Note: Refund not     $2,000.00
                                  provided regardless of determination.



                                                 14
Planning and Development Services
Code Enforcement Fees Schedule
Activity                    Fee Schedule Activity                   Fee
Administrative Citation     All minor violations unless specified   $100.00 per violation
                            otherwise
Civil Penalty              All violations of the code other than    $100.00 per violation per day for first
                           zoning, violations and as otherwise      30 days, $150.00 per violation per
                           prescribed in the code.                  day for next 30 days, and $200 per
                                                                    violation per day for all violations
                                                                    remaining after 60 days
Clean-up Fees               Billed costs from Public Works for      Based on size and clean up costs
                            clean up as well as an                  plus $100.00 administrative fees.
                            administrative fee as noted above.
Post Compliance Penalty                                             Based on number of days
Civil Penalty              Violations of zoning regulations         As provided in Section 19.94.070




Planning and Development Services
Bond Fees Schedule
Services                    Fee Activity Detail                     Fee
Bond Administration Fees    Bond Processing (must be paid           $100.00
                            prior to acceptance of the bond)
                            Bond Forfeiture (will be called         Based on Bond Amount
                            upon if improvements not done by
                            expiration date)
                            Deferred Curb and Gutter                Based on Size
                            Bond Reinspection (This is used         $100.00
                            for ENG and CODE. This is also
                            used for a Partial Bond Release.
                            Will be added if applicant fails
                            bond inspection twice.)
                            Overtime/After Hour inspection fee      See hourly rate




                                             15
Planning and Development Services
Additional Fee Schedule
Additional Services/Costs     Fee Activity Detail                    Fee
Development Agreement                                                To be determined by funding
                                                                     agreement between local
                                                                     government agency and Applicant
                                                                     prior to acceptance of the
                                                                     application
Hourly Rate                   Per hour fee (Overtime/After           $120.00 per hour
                              Hours/Plan Check/Etc.
Geology and Natural Hazards   Initial Site Assessment                $75.00
Review
                              Review of a technical report for a     Full cost of review completed by
                              single-family dwelling and all other   contracted agency.
                              development types.
GRAMA                         Research and compiling fees            Charged actual costs for research
                                                                     and materials per MSD Records
                                                                     Access and Management Policy.
Material Costs                Copies (up to 11x17in)                 Actual costs of materials per MSD
                              Copies (Larger than 11x17in)           Records and Access and
                              Large Format Color Map                 Management Policy
                              Large Format Black and White
                              Map
                              CDs, USB Thumb Drives, etc.
Research                      Types of Research offered:             $25.00 plus $25.00 per hour
                                 • Legal status of a lot or
                                     parcel
                                 • Zoning compliance letter
                                 • Administrative decision
Salt Lake County Health       Health Department                      As provided in the SLCo Health
Department Review                                                    Department Fee Schedule
Postage                       Postage (for noticing mailings this    Actual cost of postage
                              is charged per meeting)
Newspaper notice              Noticing costs for meeting before      Actual cost of noticing, if applicable
                              councils




                                              16
Planning and Development Services
Fees collected for the Engineering Division
Services                               Fee Activity Detail                   Fee
Right of Way Improvement               Curb, gutter, sidewalk & drive        $150.00 + $1.00 per linear foot
Review and Inspection Fee: No          approaches
existing curb & gutter, design &       Curb, gutter & drive approaches       $150.00 + $1.00 per linear foot
stake, inspect by others, check        Sidewalk only                         $100.00 + $1.00 per linear foot
and inspect by County                  Drive approaches only                 $100.00 + $0.50 per linear foot
(with or without sidewalk)
Right of Way Improvement               Sidewalk & Drive Approaches           $20.00 + $1.00 per linear foot
Review and Inspection Fee:             Drive approaches only                 $20.00 + $1.00 per linear foot
Existing curb & gutter, design &
stake, check and inspect by
County. Changing the
configuration of existing
improvements.
Right of Way Improvement Review                                             No Fee
and Inspection Fee: Replacement
of existing curb & gutter, sidewalk,
and drive approach improvements
in the same configuration
Final Subdivision Fees, Plat Filing,   Prior to review, 35% of 6% of         Equation
and Engineering Checking Fee for       improvement estimate, default of
Subdivisions                           $90 per lot, minimum of $10 or the
                                       appropriate calculation described
                                       above. Prior to recording or
                                       construction, 100% of 6% of
                                       improvement estimate minus fee
                                       already paid.
                                       Amended Subdivision Plat              $350.00
Engineering Checking Fee for           Prior to engineering review           $150.00
Non-Subdivision development            Prior to approval or construction,    Equation
                                       4.5% of total improvement
                                       estimate for off-site, and on-site
                                       storm drainage minus fees
                                       already paid
Road dedication fees for non-          Where dedication is required for      $150.00
subdivision development                street widening and improvements
                                       Street signs                          $200.00




                                                      17
Fees collected for the Engineering Division Continued
 Geology/Natural Hazards Review       Initial Site Assessment               $200.00
 Application Fees (3.52.160)          Review of Technical Reports -         Full cost of review completed by
                                                                            contracted agency.
 Traffic Impact Review                Initial Site Assessment               $200.00
                                      Review of Technical Report            Full cost of review completed by
                                      (3.52.17)                             contracted agency.
Public Works – Engineering
Special Events
Special Events within the following areas require the submittal of an application: Big Cottonwood Canyon,
Emigration Canyon, Kearns, Magna, Unincorporated Salt Lake County, and White City.
PW Engineering does not provide services to Copperton Township or any incorporated city.
Insurance certificates, maps, and fees will need to be submitted to the Permit Specialist before your request
can be fully processed. See fee schedule below.

                                  Metro Township Special Event Permit Fees

 # of Participants                                       Fee per day

 0 to 100                                                $50.00

 100 to 200                                              $100.00
 200 to 400                                              $200.00

 400 to 600                                              $500.00

 Over 600                                                $1,000.00

 Filming Fees                                            $200.00


   •   $50 fee for Big Cottonwood Canyon and any Unincorporated Salt Lake County areas.
   •   Special events or Filming held on any state roadway(s) may also require an additional permit from Utah
       Department of Transportation.
   •   Special events or Filming held in any canyon may also require an additional permit from United States
       Department of Agriculture, Forest Service Division.
   •   Sponsors of block parties will also be required to submit paperwork with the signatures of affected
       neighbors' concurrence of the road closure. This paperwork should reflect the addresses of each
       resident, as well as their signature indicating agreement for the road closure. Barricades and security
       are the responsibility of the applicant.




                                                       18
Planning and Development Services
Glossary
CODE: Code enforcement

Condominium Plat: The procedure to review and record a condominium plat is subject to the Condominium
Ownership Act (57.8- Utah Code). Staff review includes addressing all units, a review to verify compliance with
the zoning ordinance and conditions of approval previously imposed and an engineering review to verify
compliance with platting requirements.

COM: Commercial

DIRECTOR: The Director of Planning and Development or Designee.

ENG: Engineering

Equation: Used when the fee is based on an equation structure that cannot be easily defined in a table.
Please contact the appropriate department for more detail on what that fee includes.

General Plan Amendment: Planning Commissions make a recommendation to the Council who must
authorize Amendments to a General Plan. A study that includes public involvement is conducted after Council
gives the direction to proceed to the Development Services Director.

Home Daycare I Pre-school Application Fees: Although a home daycare I pre-school is operated out of a
private residence, it is not considered or reviewed in the same manner as a home business. Therefore, they
are listed separately in the fee schedule and in the ordinance.

Modification to a Recorded Subdivision Plat: Utah Code requires a specific process be followed to amend,
vacate or alter a recorded subdivision plat. This involves application, notice, a public hearing before the
planning commission and executive (commonly referred to as a 608 hearing/ Mayor's Meeting).
Additionally, an engineering review of the preliminary and final plat prior to approval and recording is required.
Fees may include: Planning Commission Review, Additional Public Body Review, Technical Review.

MSD: Means the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District, which White City has contracted with to
provide planning and zoning, building permit, business license, and code enforcement services.

PUD (Planned Unit Development): In those zones which allow development of a PUD they are listed as a
Conditional Use, which requires review by the Planning Commission. For developers who intend to sell
individual lots within the PUD both the Planning Commission Review Conditional Use and a Subdivision
Preliminary Plat review would be required, and a Technical Review prior to final approval is also required. Per
the fee schedule each of these reviews requires separate fee.

Additionally, because more than one review process is required the application would also involve an Agency
Review Meeting. Fees may include: Agency Coordination Meeting, Planning Commission Review (Conditional
Use), Planning Commission Review (Preliminary Plat), Technical Review.

The conditional use approval (planning commission approval) is required prior to preparation of the subdivision
preliminary plat to ensure that the recommendations of the Planning Commission are properly incorporated
into the preliminary plat.

Re-Zone (Zoning Map Amendment): A request to change the existing zoning (re-zone) requires: review and
recommendation from the planning commission (Public Body Review) and final decision by the council
(Additional Public Body Review) and technical work (Technical Review) for map and index work).
                                                        19
Res: Residential

Signs: Signs vary in the type and complexity of review process required therefore they are listed under several
review types. It is intended that the fees are assessed per review process and not per sign. For example, a
business that had 2 signs which required Planning Commission review would be charged for 1 planning
commission review. However, a business which had 1 sign which required planning commission review and
another sign which did not, would be charged for 1 planning commission review and 1 staff review.

Subdivision: A request to subdivide property requires review and approval of a preliminary plat, and a
Technical Review of the Final Plat. Additionally, an Agency Review Meeting is required. Note that in the case
of a "one-lot" subdivision there might also be an Administrative Review for the proposed Single-Family
Dwelling. Fees may include: Agency Coordination Meeting, Planning Commission Meeting, Technical Review,
Staff Review of a Site Plan.

Valuation: The estimated construction cost for the project




                                                      20
                             WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP


RESOLUTION NO.: 2 2 - 1 2 - 0 3                              DATE: December 1, 2022



              A RESOLUTION OF THE WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP
              COUNCIL APPROVING AND ADOPTING THE 2023 WHITE
              CITY METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL REGULAR MEETING
                                          SCHEDULE



                                               RECITALS

A. The White City Metro Township ("White City") is a Municipality pursuant to Utah Code §§
   10-2a-401 et seq.
B. The White City Metro Township Council ("Council") is a Metro Township Council pursuant
   to Utah Code§§ 10-3b-501 et al.
C. Pursuant to the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act (the "Act"), the Council must adopt and
   post an annual regular meeting schedule of the Council.
D. The 2023 White City Metro Township Council Regular Meeting Schedule (ATTACHMENT
   "A") fulfills the requirement of the Act.

                                         RESOLUTION

        THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the White City Metro Township Council, the
Council approves and adopts the attached 2023 White City Metro Township Regular Meeting
Schedule hereinafter to be known as Attachment "A" to this resolution, for the benefit of White
City.

   APPROVED AND ADOPTED in the White City Metro Township, Salt Lake County, Utah
this 1st day of December 2022.


                                                        WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP



                                                  BY:     PAULINA F. FLINT, MAYOR
                                 APPROVED AS TO FORM:



ATTEST                          __________________________

                                 METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY


SHERRIE SWENSEN
SALT LAKE COUNTY CLERK
METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER


VOTING
COUNCILMEMBER LITTLE
COUNCILMEMBER CARDENAZ
MAYOR FLINT
COUNCILMEMBER PERRY
COUNCILMEMBER PRICE
                           ATTACHMENT ‘A’


                    White City Metro Township Council
                        Regular Meeting Schedule for 2023
       Meeting Place: White City Water Improvement District Meeting Room
                        999 E Galena Dr Sandy, UT 84094
       6:00 PM Business Meeting Immediately Followed by the Public Meeting
                            (Unless Otherwise Specified)

                                   Thursday January 5, 2023
                                  Thursday February 2, 2023
                                   Thursday March 2, 2023
                                    Thursday April 6, 2023
                                    Thursday May 4, 2023
                                     Thursday June 1, 2023
                                    Thursday July 6, 2023
                                   Thursday August 3, 2023
                                 Thursday September 7, 2023
                                   Thursday October 5, 2023
                                 Thursday November 9, 2023
                                  Thursday December 7, 2023
 THE PUBLIC IS WELCOME TO ATTEND THE BUSINESS AND PUBLIC MEETINGS
Upon request with three working days' notice, Salt Lake County will provide free auxiliary aids
and services to qualified individuals (including sign language interpreters, alternative formats,
     etc.). For assistance, please call (385) 468-7130-TTY 711. The Public May Attend.

                  Meetings May Be Closed for Reasons Allowed by Statute.
                               WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP


RESOLUTION NO.: 22-11-02                                          DATE: NOVEMBER 10, 2022


                      A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR TO EXECUTE
                 AN AGREEMENT WITH SALT LAKE COUNTY ACCEPT THE TRANSFER

          AND CONVEYANCE OF BIG BEAR PARK TO THE WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP



      WHEREAS, the White City Metro Township ("White City") is a Municipality pursuant
to Utah Code §§ 10-2a-401 et seq; and

      WHEREAS, UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-13-202 provides that any two or more public agencies
may enter into an agreement with one another for joint or cooperative actions; and

       WHEREAS, UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-13-214 provides that any public agency may convey
property to or acquire property from any other public agencies for consideration as may be agreed
upon; and

         WHEREAS, the City and the County are public agencies as contemplated in the above
referenced sections of the Utah Code (more specifically referred to as UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-13-101,
et seq. - Interlocal Cooperation Act); and

      WHEREAS, the conveyance of property provided herein is an interest in real property as
contemplated in the Interlocal Cooperation Act; and

        WHEREAS, the County owns a parcel of real property known as Big Bear Park (hereinafter
referred to as the “Park”); and

        WHEREAS, the Park is located at approximately 930 East Onyx Lane, White City, Utah
(Parcel Nos. 28-08-179-014, 28-08-179-013, 28-08-179-015), and as further described in the quitclaim
deed (hereinafter the “Quitclaim Deed”, attached hereto as Exhibit A, and incorporated herein by this
reference); and

       WHEREAS, the Council desires to formally accept the transfer and conveyance the Park to the
White City Metro Township from County, for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in
this Agreement.

       NOW, THEREFORE, be it resolved by the White City Metro Township Council that the Mayor is
authorized to execute the Interlocal Agreement with Salt Lake County accepting the transfer of the Big
Bear Park to the White City Metro Township as set forth in Exhibit “A” attached hereto.

       ADOPTED this 10th day of November 2022.
                                      FOR THE WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP

                                      BY:
                                             PAULINA FLINT, MAYOR




 ATTEST                                     APPROVED AS TO FORM:



                                            ___________________________
                                            PAUL H. ASHTON
 SHERRIE SWENSEN                            METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY
 SALT LAKE COUNTY CLERK
 METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER



VOTING

MAYOR FLINT             ___________
COUNCILMEMBER PRICE     ___________
COUNCIL MEMBER LITTLE   ___________
COUNCIL MEMBER PERRY    ___________
COUNCIL MEMBER CARDENAZ ___________




                                 -2-
                     Interlocal Cooperation Agreement
        THIS INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT (this “Agreement”) is made
effective this __ day of ________, 2022, by and between SALT LAKE COUNTY, a body
corporate and politic of the State of Utah (the “County”), and the metro township of WHITE CITY,
a municipal corporation of the State of Utah (the “City”). County and City may each be referred to
herein individually as a “Party” and jointly as the “Parties.”

                                         RECITALS

       WHEREAS, UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-13-202 provides that any two or more public
agencies may enter into an agreement with one another for joint or cooperative actions; and

       WHEREAS, UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-13-214 provides that any public agency may convey
property to or acquire property from any other public agencies for consideration as may be
agreed upon; and

        WHEREAS, the City and the County are public agencies as contemplated in the above
referenced sections of the Utah Code (more specifically referred to as UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-13-
101, et seq. - Interlocal Cooperation Act); and

      WHEREAS, the conveyance of property provided herein is an interest in real property as
contemplated in the Interlocal Cooperation Act; and

       WHEREAS, the County owns a parcel of real property known as Big Bear Park
(hereinafter referred to as the “Park”); and

        WHEREAS, the Park is located at approximately 930 East Onyx Lane, White City, Utah
(Parcel Nos. 28-08-179-014, 28-08-179-013, 28-08-179-015), and as further described in the
quitclaim deed (hereinafter the “Quitclaim Deed”, attached hereto as Exhibit A, and incorporated
herein by this reference); and

        WHEREAS, the County desires to formally transfer and convey the Park to the City, and
the City desires to formally take and receive the Park from the County, for the purposes and on
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.

                                       AGREEMENT
       NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises set forth herein, and for other
good and valuable consideration, the receipt and legal sufficiency of which is hereby
acknowledged, the Parties hereby agree as follows:

        Section 1.     Conveyance. The County shall convey the Park to the City via Quitclaim
Deed for the purpose of operating and maintaining a neighborhood park. The City shall be
solely responsible for maintaining the Park and shall repair or replace improvements thereon as
necessary to maintain its current function and use.
        Section 2.      Consideration. County and City agree that in consideration of the mutual
benefit afforded the citizens of City and County, the restrictions on use identified in Section 3, and
the exchange of agreed upon consideration in accordance with Section 11-13-214 of the Interlocal
Cooperation Act, the County will convey the Park to City as outlined herein.

       Section 3.      Use Restriction. The Park shall be used by City solely as a public park:

       A. The Quitclaim Deed conveying the Park shall include a perpetual restriction requiring
          the Park to be used by City or its successors in interest solely as a public park or open
          space, and in the event City ceases using any portion of the Park as a public park or
          open space, the Park will revert to County in its entirety.

        Section 4.       Operation of the Park. Upon transfer of the Park to City, City shall be
solely responsible for the operation and maintenance of the Park, and City shall indemnify County
from and against all liabilities, claims, damages, losses, suits, judgments, causes of action, liens,
fines, penalties, costs, and expenses (including, but not limited to, court costs, attorneys’ fees, and
costs of investigation) directly or indirectly arising out of, caused by, or resulting from, in whole
or in part, City’s operation and maintenance of the Park or any act or omission of City, any
independent contractor retained by City, or anyone directly or indirectly employed by them, while
working on and/or maintaining the Park.

        Section 5.      Duration and Termination. This Agreement shall take effect upon
execution and terminate upon the performance by the Parties of all the obligations described
herein. The Parties intend that the conveyance of the Park shall be accomplished promptly. Any
provision of this Agreement which contemplates performance subsequent to the exchange of title
to the Park shall survive such exchange of title and shall continue in full force and effect until fully
satisfied, but in no event shall this Agreement have a term longer than 50 years.

       Section 6.     Additional Interlocal Act            Provisions. In     compliance     with   the
requirements of the Act and other applicable law:

                (a)     No Interlocal Entity. The Parties agree that they do not by this Agreement
create an interlocal entity.

                (b)    Joint Board. As required by UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-13-207, the Parties
agree that the cooperative undertaking under this Agreement shall be administered by a joint board
consisting of the County’s Mayor or designee and the City’s Manager or designee. Any real or
personal property used in the Parties’ cooperative undertaking herein shall be acquired, held, and
disposed in accordance with this Agreement.

              (c)    Financing Joint Cooperative Undertaking and Establishing Budget. There
is no financing of joint or cooperative undertaking and no budget shall be established or
maintained.




                                                   2
              (d)   Attorney Review. This Agreement shall be reviewed as to proper form and
compliance with applicable law by the authorized attorneys for the County and the City in
accordance with UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-13-202.5.

                (e)    Copies. Duly executed original counterparts of this Agreement shall be
filed with the keeper of records of each Party, pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-13-209.

                (f)     Manner of Acquiring, Holding or Disposing of Property. The Park shall be
acquired, held or disposed of pursuant to the terms of this Agreement and unless agreed to herein
shall not be used in a joint or cooperative undertaking.

      Section 7.      General Provisions. The following provisions are also integral parts of this
Agreement:

                (a)     Binding Agreement. This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure
to the benefit of the successors and assigns of the respective Parties hereto.

              (b)     Captions. The headings used in this Agreement are inserted for reference
purposes only and shall not be deemed to define, limit, extend, describe, or affect in any way the
meaning, scope or interpretation of any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement or the intent
hereof.

               (c)    Counterparts. This Agreement may be signed in any number of
counterparts with the same effect as if the signatures upon any counterpart were upon the same
instrument. All signed counterparts shall be deemed to be one original.

              (d)     Severability. The provisions of this Agreement are severable, and should
any provision hereof be void, voidable, unenforceable or invalid, such void, voidable,
unenforceable, or invalid provision shall not affect the other provisions of this Agreement.

              (e)     Waiver of Breach. Any waiver by either Party of any breach of any kind or
character whatsoever by the other, whether such be direct or implied, shall not be construed as a
continuing waiver of or consent to any subsequent breach of this Agreement.

                (f)     Cumulative Remedies. The rights and remedies of the Parties hereto shall
be construed cumulatively, and none of such rights and remedies shall be exclusive of, or in lieu
or limitation of, any other right, remedy, or priority allowed by law.

               (g)     Amendment. This Agreement may not be modified except by an instrument
in writing signed by the Parties hereto.

               (h)    Time of Essence. Time is of the essence in this Agreement.

              (i)     Interpretation. This Agreement shall be interpreted, construed, and
enforced according to the substantive laws of the state of Utah.




                                                3
                (j)     Notice. Any notice or other communication required or permitted to be
given hereunder shall be deemed to have been received (a) upon personal delivery or actual receipt
thereof or (b) within three (3) days after such notice is deposited in the United States mail, certified
mail postage prepaid and addressed to the Parties at their respective addresses.

                (k)    Exhibits and Recitals. The Recitals set forth above and all exhibits to this
Agreement are incorporated herein to the same extent as if such items were set forth herein in their
entirety within the body of this Agreement.

                (l)    Governmental Immunity. Both Parties are governmental entities under the
Governmental Immunity Act, UTAH CODE ANN. § 63G-7-101, et seq. (the “Immunity Act”).
Consistent with the terms of the Immunity Act, the Parties agree that each Party is responsible and
liable for any wrongful or negligent acts which it commits or which are committed by its agents,
officials, or employees. Neither Party waives any defenses or limits of liability otherwise available
under the Immunity Act and all other applicable law, and both Parties maintain all privileges,
immunities, and other rights granted by the Immunity Act and all other applicable law.

                (m)     Ethical Standards. The Parties hereto represent that they have not: (a)
provided an illegal gift or payoff to any officer or employee, or former officer or employee, or to
any relative or business entity of an officer or employee, or relative or business entity of a former
officer or employee of the other party hereto; (b) retained any person to solicit or secure this
Agreement upon any contract, agreement or understanding for a commission, percentage,
brokerage or contingent fee, other than bona fide employees of bona fide commercial agencies
established for the purpose of securing business; (c) breached any of the ethical standards set forth
in State statute or County’s Ethics, Gifts and Honoraria ordinance (Chapter 2.07, SALT LAKE
COUNTY CODE OF ORDINANCES [2001]); or (d) knowingly influenced, and hereby promise that
they will not knowingly influence, any officer or employee or former officer or employee to breach
any of the ethical standards set forth in State statute or County ordinances.

       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City, by resolution duly adopted by its City Council,
caused this Agreement to be signed by its Mayor and attested by its City Recorder; and the County,
by resolution of its County Council, caused this Agreement to be signed by the Salt Lake County
Mayor, or her designee, his or her signature being duly notarized.

                                  [Signature Page Follows Below]




                                                   4
                                           SALT LAKE COUNTY

                                           By: ______________________________________
                                               Mayor or Designee

Recommended for Approval:


____________________________________
Director of Salt Lake County Parks and Recreation

Recommended for Approval:


____________________________________
Director of Salt Lake County Public Works

Reviewed and Advised as to Form and Legality:


____________________________________
John E. Diaz
Deputy District Attorney
Salt Lake County

                                           WHITE CITY, Utah municipality


                                           By _______________________________________
                                              Mayor or Designee
Recommended for Approval:


__________________________________
White City Engineer


ATTEST:

___________________________________
White City Recorder

Reviewed and Advised as to Form and Legality:

_____________________________________
__________________, City Attorney



                                              5
STATE OF UTAH        )
                    :ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

       On this      day of                         , 2022, personally appeared before me
                                          , who being duly sworn, did say that (s)he is the
                                          of Salt Lake County, Office of Mayor, and that
the foregoing instrument was signed on behalf of Salt Lake County, by authority of law.



                                                         NOTARY PUBLIC
[SEAL]                                              Residing in Salt Lake County




                                             6
         Exhibit A
(Big Bear Park Quitclaim Deed)




              7
WHEN RECORDED, RETURN TO:
Salt Lake County
Salt Lake County Real Estate Manager
2001 South State Street, S3-110
Salt Lake City, Utah 84190

                                      Tax I.D. Nos. 28-08-179-014, 28-08-179-013, 28-08-179-015

                                   QUITCLAIM DEED
        SALT LAKE COUNTY, a body corporate and politic of the State of Utah (hereinafter
referred to as “Grantor”), for the sum of ten dollars ($10.00), and other good and valuable
consideration, hereby quitclaims to the metro township of White City, a municipal corporation of
the State of Utah (hereinafter referred to as “Grantee”), the following described parcel of land
commonly known as Big Bear Park, located at 930 East Onyx Lane, White City, Salt Lake
County, State of Utah 84093 (the “Property”), and as more specifically described in Exhibit A
attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference.

Perpetual Restriction. The Property is to be used by Grantee or its successors in interest solely as
a public park or open space, if Grantee ceases using any portion of the Property as a public park
or open space, the Property will revert to Grantor in its entirety.

Notice of Limitation of Use. This Property has been acquired or developed with federal financial
assistance provided by the National Park Service through the Land and Water Conservation Fund
program in accordance with the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965, as amended
(Public Law 88-5778; currently codified at 54 U.S.C. 2003 et seq.). Pursuant to a requirement of
that law, this Property may not be converted to other than public outdoor recreation uses
(whether by transfer, sale, or in any other manner) without the express written approval of the
Secretary of the Interior. By law, the Secretary of the Interior shall approve such conversion only
if the Secretary finds it to be in accordance with the then existing statewide comprehensive
outdoor recreation plan and only on such conditions as the Secretary considers necessary to
ensure the substitution of other recreation properties of at least equal fair market value and of
reasonably equivalent usefulness and location.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Grantor has caused this Quitclaim Deed to be signed and its official
seal to be affixed hereto by its duly authorized officer this ________ day of __________________, 2022.

                                    [Signature Page Follows Below]




                                                   8
                                     SALT LAKE COUNTY



                                     By_______________________________________
                                           Mayor or Designee


STATE OF UTAH                )
                             : ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE          )

        On this _____ day of __________________________, 2022, personally appeared before me
____________________________________________, who being duly sworn, did say that s/he is the
________________________________________ of Salt Lake County, Office of Mayor, and that the
foregoing instrument was signed on behalf of Salt Lake County, by authority of law.



                                            ____________________________________
                                            NOTARY PUBLIC
                                            Residing in Salt Lake County


Reviewed and Advised as to Form and Legality:


______________________________
John E. Diaz
Deputy District Attorney
Salt Lake County




                                               9
   EXHIBIT A
(Legal Description)




        10
