                         WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
                                      MEETING AGENDA

                                     Thursday, June 2, 2022
                                           6:00 PM
                                       ***Amended***

                                White City Water Improvement District
                                999 E Galena Drive, White City 84094

PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the White City Metro Township Council will hold a
regular meeting on the 2nd day of June 2022 at the White City Water Improvement District, 999 E
Galena Drive, White City, Utah as follows:

This meeting will be held at the anchor location and electronically for members of the staff and/or
public that cannot attend due to continuing concerns regarding the COVID-19 pandemic or other
health reasons. Seating may be limited and restricted to the City Council, staff, participants, and
limited numbers of the general public. Those interested in attending electronically should follow
the information noted at the end of this agenda. **

**Portions of the meetings may be closed for reasons allowed by statute. Motions relating to any
of the items listed below, including final action, may be taken.

6:00 PM – BUSINESS MEETING
1. Introduction of Chief Burchett, Unified Fire Authority
2. Discussion / Clarification of Agenda Items

3. Discuss Update on Engineering Projects [Shane Ellis, MSD Engineer]

4. Discuss Changes to Moderate Income Housing Planning Requirements from HB 462 approved in
   the 2022 Legislative Session [Erin O’Kelley, Long Range Planner]

5. Discuss Modifications to the White City Code Titles 18 Subdivisions and Title 19 Zoning [Erin
   O’Kelley, Long Range Planner]

6. Discuss Emergency Communications Plan [James Woodward, Emergency Manager]

7. Close Staff Meeting and Recess until Public Meeting

             AFTER UP TO A 10 MINUTE RECESS – OPEN PUBLIC MEETING

1. Welcome and Determine Quorum

2. White City Financial Report [Dave Sanderson, Financial Manager]

3. Unified Fire Authority – CPT Ken Aldridge

4. Unified Police Department – Chief Randy Thomas and/or Detective Jeff Fenton
White City Metro Township Council Meeting Agenda
June 2, 2022



5. Public Comments -- (Limited to 3 minutes per person) Any person wishing to comment on any
    item not otherwise scheduled for public hearing on the agenda may address the Council at this
    point by stepping to the microphone and giving their name for the record. Comments should be
    limited to not more than three (3) minutes unless additional time is authorized by the Governing
    Body.)

6. ACTION ITEM
    6.1 Approval of Minutes:
        1. *May 5, 2022

7. COUNCIL REPORTS
      7.1 Mayor Flint
      7.2 Council Member Allen Perry
      7.3 Council Member Linda Price
      7.4 Council Member Phillip Cardenaz
      7.5 Council Member Scott Little
8. ADJOURN

** GoToMeeting Option


                White City Metro Township Council Meeting
                Thu, Jun 2, 2022 6:00 PM - 9:00 PM (MDT)

                Please join my meeting from your computer, tablet, or smartphone.
                https://meet.goto.com/291862533

                You can also dial in using your phone.
                United States: +1 (224) 501-3412

                Access Code: 291-862-533

Upon request with three working days’ notice, the MSD for the Metro Township will provide free
auxiliary aids and services to qualified individuals (including sign language interpreters, alternative
formats, etc.). For assistance, please call (385) 468-7130 – TTY 711.

    For Further Information, the website for White City Metro Township is: www.whitecity-ut.org


Posted On:      June 1, 2022




2|Page                              www.whitecity-ut.org
    MEMORANDUM: 2022 MODERATE INCOME HOUSING AMENDMENTS PER STATE
                               STATUTE

TO: White City Metro Township Council

FROM: MSD Planning Staff

DATE: May 24th, 2022

                                          SUMMARY

During the legislative session this year, the state approved HB 462, which made updates to SB34
(2019). HB 462 Housing Affordability Amendments have made significant changes to the process
and requirements for community moderate-income housing plans regarding both
implementation and annual reporting on how the community fulfills its housing plan goals. The
planning staff has been reviewing the resources provided by ULCT (Utah League of Cities and
Towns) and WFRC (Wasatch Front Regional Council) to understand how these changes impact the
communities serviced by the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD). The exhibits
attached in this memo are a collection of resources from ULCT, WFRC, and the legislation
discussed.

ULCT and WFRC, with many other partners, were involved in drafting the bill. During the session,
there were four main bill goals (from ULCT).

   1. To meet the needs of people of various income levels living, working, or desiring to live or
      work in Utah communities.
   2. To allow people with various incomes to benefit from and fully participate in all aspects of
      neighborhood and community life.
   3. To determine how the jurisdiction will provide a realistic opportunity to meet the need for
      additional moderate income housing within the next five years.
   4. To tie state project and grant funding with communities’ demonstrated compliance with
      the moderate income housing requirements.

The changes discussed further in this memo regarding Moderate Income Housing Changes
which modify Utah Code Section 10-9a-408 and Section 10-9a-403, are those that most
impact the Metro Townships and will require the most significant staff time. The State Code
changes become effective June 1, 2022, and will need to be completed by October 1, 2022.

                                           EXHIBITS

   1.   Section 10-9a-403 (Effective 6/1/2022)
   2.   Section 10-9a-408 (Effective 6/1/2022)
   3.   Section 10-9a-404
   4.   Section 10-9a-204
   5.   White City Moderate Income Housing Plan (adopted in 2019).


                                                   Introduction to Code Update Process | Page 1 of 6
                                              ANALYSIS

While not all the changes in the legislation impact Metro Townships, the changes made in HB 462
can be broken down into the following sections:

    1. Moderate Income Housing Plan Changes (discussed in detail below)
    2. Station Area Plan Requirements – These changes impact communities that have or plan
       to have station areas with a fixed rail or BRT (Bus Rapid Transit).
    3. Changes to Internal Accessory Dwelling Units – Prohibits local governments from
       charging impact fees to IADUs constructed within an existing dwelling.
    4. Changes to the Point of the Mountain – Applies to changes at the Point of the Mountain
       area. These changes do not apply to Metro Townships.
    5. Changes to the Olene Walker Board – Modifies the Olene Walker Housing Board
       changes. This does not apply to Metro Townships.
    6. Other Changes and Appropriations – Other changes include rural housing funds,
       housing affordability data and methodology, public transit hubs, and appropriations.
Moderate Income Housing Plan Changes

These changes most significantly impact the Metro Townships and are where staff are required to
focus their time. The changes outlined in this section will need to be completed by October
1, 2022.

Change #1: The menu items provided in the bill have been altered and expanded from 17
to 24 options now available for communities. The new options are as follows:

24 Strategy options (2)(b)(iii) (line 679):
        A. Rezone for densities necessary to facilitate the production of moderate-income
           housing.
        B. Demonstrate investment in the rehabilitation or expansion of infrastructure that
           facilitates the construction of moderate income housing.
        C. Demonstrate investment in the rehabilitation of existing uninhabitable housing stock
           into moderate income housing.
        D. Identify and utilize county general fund subsidies or other sources of revenue to
           waive construction related fees that are otherwise generally imposed by the
           county/municipality for the construction or rehabilitation of moderate income
           housing.
        E. Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, internal or detached accessory
           dwelling units in residential zones.




                                                   Introduction to Code Update Process | Page 2 of 6
F. Zone or rezone for higher density or moderate income residential development in
   commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit investment corridors, commercial
   centers, or employment centers.
G. Amend land use regulations to allow for higher density or new moderate income
   residential development in commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit
   investment corridors.
H. Amend land use regulations to eliminate or reduce parking requirements for
   residential development where a resident is less likely to rely on the resident’s own
   vehicle, such as a residential development near major transit investment corridors or
   senior living facilities.
I.   Amend land use regulations to allow for single room occupancy developments.
J.   Implement zoning incentives for moderate income housing units in new
     developments.
K. Preserve existing and new moderate income housing and subsidized units by
   utilizing a landlord incentive program, providing for deed restricted units through a
   grant program, or establishing a housing loss mitigation fund.
L. Reduce, waive, or eliminate impact fees related to moderate income housing.
M. Demonstrate creation of, or participation in, a community land trust program for
   moderate income housing.
N. Implement a mortgage assistance program for employees of the county/municipality,
   an employer that provides contracted services for the county/to the municipality, or
   any other public employer that operates within the county/municipality.
O. Apply for or partner with an entity that applies for state or federal funds or tax
   incentives to promote the construction of moderate income housing, an entity that
   applies for programs offered by Utah Housing Corporation within that agency’s
   funding capacity, an entity that applies for affordable housing programs
   administered by the Department of Workforce Services, an entity that applies for
   affordable housing programs administered by an association of governments
   established by an interlocal agreement under Title 11, Chapter 13, Interlocal
   Cooperation Act, an entity that applies for services provided by a public housing
   authority to preserve and create moderate income housing, or any other entity that
   applies for programs or services that promote the construction or preservation of
   moderate income housing.
P. Demonstrate utilization of a moderate income housing set aside from a community
   reinvestment agency, redevelopment agency, or community development and
   renewal agency to create or subsidize moderate income housing.
Q. Demonstrate implementation of any other program or strategy to address the
   housing needs of residents of the municipality who earn less than 80% of the area
   median income, including the dedication of a local funding source to moderate


                                           Introduction to Code Update Process | Page 3 of 6
           income housing or adoption of the land use ordinance that requires 10% or more of
           the new residential development in a residential zone be dedicated to moderate
           income housing.
       R. Create a housing and transit reinvestment zone pursuant to Title 63N, Chapter 3, Part
          6, Housing and Transit Reinvestment Zone Act.
       S. Eliminate impact fees for any accessory dwelling unit that is not an internal accessory
          dwelling unit as defined in Section 10-9a-530.
       T. Create a Program to transfer development rights for moderate income housing.
       U. Ratify a joint acquisition agreement with another local political subdivision for the
          purpose of combining resources to acquire property for moderate income housing.
       V. Develop a moderate income housing project for residents who are disabled or 55
          years old or older.
       W. Develop and adopt a station area plan in accordance with section 10-9a-403.1.
       X. Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, multi-family residential
          dwellings compatible in scale and form with detached single-family residential
          dwellings and located in walkable communities within residential or mixed-use
          zones.



Change #2: Communities must provide implementation as part of their moderate income
housing plan.

There are no explicit details about what this implementation plan looks like, but at a minimum,
the implementation plan must include a timeline to implement the required strategies. If the
strategies include adopting new legislation, it would be anticipated that the implementation plan
will describe the estimated time of adoption and other milestones as are necessary for adoption.

Change #3: Annual reporting requirements have been modified and the timeline has been
adjusted.

Instead of delivering reports on December 1st of every year, reports are now due on October 1st.
The reporting period is now tied to the City’s fiscal year. The first reporting year for 2022 must
include the updated MIH plan with the implementation plan and new strategic choices.
Subsequent reporting years must include the community’s MIH plan, description of each action
and implementation, description of land use regulations adopted, description of barriers
encountered, description of how the private sector and market have responded, and information
regarding IADUs in the community, as well as recommendations to the state about
implementation. The new reporting forms will be released to the staff in July of this year.

Change #4: Prioritization and penalties have been changed.



                                                   Introduction to Code Update Process | Page 4 of 6
Priority Consideration: If a community adopts 5 strategies rather than the minimum requirement
of 3 strategies and the Department of Workforce Services (DWS) determines the community
complies with three of the strategies, the community may receive priority consideration for
funding pools such as the Transportation Investment Fun (TIF), Transit Transportation Investment
Fund (TTIF), and the COVID-19 local assistance matching grant. If a municipality does not meet
these requirements, they will still be able to apply for funding from these programs but will not
be given priority status.

Penalties: If a community is found to be in violation of the minimum requirements of HB 462,
notice will be sent to the Community, UDOT, and the Governor’s Office of Planning and Budget
(GOPB), and that community will not be eligible for any funding from TIF, TTIF, or COVID-19 local
assistance matching grants. Once the notice has been delivered to the required agencies, the
legislative body of the municipality (Council) has 90 days from the day the notice is sent to cure
identified deficiencies or they will lose eligibility for TIF/TTIF funding.

                                ACTION RECOMMENDATIONS

As a result of the approved legislation that became effective on June 1, 2022, the Metro Townships
will need to complete the following actions by October 1, 2022. The MSD planning staff will
facilitate this process and perform operations relating to the drafting of documents, public
engagement, reviews by the Planning Commission and City Councils, and complete the reporting
requirements for the community. The reporting forms will be made available to communities by
July 1, 2022.

Action #1 Public Engagement and Education on Updates (June/July)

The moderate income housing plans, as part of the general plans, are created with a built-in public
engagement process to let the public understand and weigh in on what strategies the community
should take to increase the amount of affordable housing. Depending on the strategies chosen,
neighborhoods are impacted differently. Communities that put more emphasis on increasing
moderate income housing in commercial areas and new developments may see less change than
communities that choose strategies focused on single-family neighborhoods. Some communities,
like Metro Townships in Salt Lake County, may have limitations on choices which can put even
greater strain on choosing the options in the moderate income housing plans.

Therefore, the MSD planning staff is recommending that some public engagement be completed
during the months of June, July, and possibly August to keep the public informed and able to
engage in the changes being made to the moderate income housing plan.

There are four goals for the public engagement events that staff would like to accomplish.

   1. Educate the public on these changes to build an informed community regarding moderate
      income housing needs and planning requirements.




                                                   Introduction to Code Update Process | Page 5 of 6
   2. Help the public understand the pros and cons of different choices related to moderate
      income housing including the potential impacts the strategies may have on communities.
   3. Collect feedback on possible strategies that would be suitable for the community or that
      the public would support.
   4. Collect feedback on ways to implement the possible strategies that could be chosen.

Action #2 Update the moderate income housing plan. (July/August)

Once the public has given feedback on the possible strategies they would support, staff will begin
working on updating the plan with these strategies to meet state requirements. MSD planning
staff will work with the Commission, Council, and stakeholders to update the Moderate Income
Housing Plan with these changes, including the addition of an implementation plan and timeline.

Action #3 Adoption and Reporting (September)

The changes to the Moderate Income Housing Plan will need to be formally adopted before
October 1, 2022. This process is similar to making an update or amendment to the General Plan
and will be noticed and processed as such. This means it will have at least one public hearing held
with the Planning Commission. The public hearing is required to follow Utah Code 10-9a-404 and
10-9a-204. For the planning commission a notice of a public hearing is required at least 10
calendar days before the public hearing. For any subsequent public hearings, a notice is required
at least 10 calendar days before the public hearing. For any subsequent public meetings, a notice
of 24 hours is required following 10-9a-204.

MSD staff will work on the reporting form that is also due by October 1, 2022. The State’s new
reporting form will be made available to staff and the public on July 1, 2022.

                               TIMELINE RECOMMENDATIONS

With the timeline required by state law to complete the following actions by October 1, 2022, staff
is recommending the following timeline:

   •   June and July will be dedicated to public engagement and collecting feedback on the
       possible strategies.
   •   August and September will be dedicated to making the updates in the plan, completing
       the reporting form, and working with the Planning Commission and Metro Township
       Council on adoption.
                                         CONCLUSION

With the following changes and actions in mind, staff is requesting that the Council review the
updates required and provide feedback to staff on the timeline and operations required to
complete the changes by October 1, 2022. The MSD planning staff will work closely with the
community and modify the process, where requested, to provide quality customer service while
trying to adhere to strict deadlines created by the State.

                                                   Introduction to Code Update Process | Page 6 of 6
                 MEMORANDUM: WHITE CITY 2022 ORDINANCE UPDATES

TO: White City Planning Commission and Council

FROM: MSD Planning Staff

DATE: May 24th, 2022

                                           SUMMARY

MSD Planning & Development Services Staff (“PDS”) have been tasked by the Metro Townships
and Town of Brighton to lead ordinance update efforts for each respective community. For the
remainder of 2022, PDS will be drafting revisions to Titles 18 Subdivisions & 19 Zoning,
respectively. Staff will work closely with the Planning Commission and Council to review drafted
materials and lead ordinance revisions through the formal adoption process. This project has an
anticipated end date of December 2022.

Land Use Ordinances determine the use, development, and subdivision of property within a
municipality. A municipality’s right to implement land use ordinances is tied to its “Police Power”
(or to the essential task of protecting public health, safety, and welfare). Private property rights
are balanced with public needs, in order to ensure safe, equitable, and sustainable development.

The 2022 Land Use Ordinance revisions are intended to accomplish several objectives, including:

   •   Ensuring compliance with State Legislation.
   •   Encouraging conformity with adopted General Plans.
   •   Promoting ease of use for staff and residents.
   •   Meeting the unique needs and preserving the character of the community.

                                            TIMELINE

Staff has broken the project down into three phases, as shown in Figure 1. At the end of each
phase, draft versions of the specified chapters will be delivered to the Planning Commission and
Council for their review and feedback. When all of the drafted chapters have been reviewed, a
final draft version of Titles 18 & 19, with revisions as applicable, will be presented for adoption.

                     Figure 1: Proposed Timeline for Ordinance Updates.




                                                    Introduction to Code Update Process | Page 1 of 9
                     Credit: MSD PDS, 2022 (see larger graphic in exhibits).

Staff will work hard to prepare a high-quality draft of Titles 18 & 19 that can be considered by the
Planning Commission and adopted by the Council in December of 2022. We recognize our
communities’ urgency to update its codes before the 2023 State Legislative Session.

                                       TITLE 19 ANALYSIS

In the first quarter of 2022, Erin O’Kelley (Long Range Planner) performed an in-depth analysis of
existing Title 19 Ordinances to provide a basis from which the project team could begin their
revisions. This analysis helped the team understand how much time needed to be allotted for
various tasks, such as removing outdated sections or obsolete zoning districts, consolidating
materials for ease of use, and updating language to reflect recent legislative changes and the
vision of the General Plan.

The methodology used in the analysis of Title 19 is included as Exhibit A. Figure 2 comprehensively
portrays the work that needs to be completed on White City’s Ordinances. This table is an estimate
of what will be expected in the coming months but based on the feedback from the community
there may be some changes as requested.

                           Figure 2: Title 19 Recommended Actions.




                                                    Introduction to Code Update Process | Page 2 of 9
                                     Credit: MSD PDS, 2022.

The bar chart is color-coded to show changes that staff expect to require a low, medium, or high
effort. The low-effort actions include the removal of certain sections of code that are no longer
applicable. Medium-effort actions involve moving, reformatting, or consolidating chapters or
sections of the ordinance, as well as bringing those sections into compliance with State Code.
Finally, high-effort actions are those that require an updating of chapters or sections in order to
improve standards and requirements or facilitate General Plan implementation. In addition to
greater staff expertise necessary for the high-effort changes, staff anticipate that those actions
will trigger a higher level of engagement from the community. As a general strategy, we have
elected to draft the ‘High-Effort’ ordinance updates first so that the Planning Commission
and Council have the most time to look over those sections before adoption. Thus, you will
find many of the High-Effort Draft Chapters delivered at the end of Project Phase 1.

                                  RECOMMENDED UPDATES

As previously outlined, the main objectives of the ordinance update are to:

   •   Ensure compliance with State Legislation.
   •   Encourage conformity with adopted General Plans.
   •   Promote ease of use for staff and residents.
   •   Meet the unique needs and preserve the character of the community.

We have highlighted a few of the specific updates that are needed in order to meet these
objectives. Please note that the following lists are not exhaustive.


                                                   Introduction to Code Update Process | Page 3 of 9
Recommended Legislative Updates:

   •   Update noticing requirements.
   •   Add language on Critical Infrastructure Materials.
   •   Revise conditional use language to ensure standards are ‘reasonable and objective’.
   •   Ensure that ordinances meet new restrictions on development agreements and on
       design standards for residential areas.
   •   Update subdivision ordinance to reflect recent legislation.

Recommended Procedural Updates:

   •   Clearly articulate the standards and procedures for applying for / receiving various
       land use permits.
   •   Consider the addition of a Conditional Use Administrative Approval (CU).
   •   Consider the addition of an administrative approval for subdivisions of less than five
       lots.
   •   Add a process for approving townhomes and other for-sale units on properties of
       less than three acres.
   •   In collaboration with the legal team, update Floodplain Permit procedures.

Recommended Community Priority Updates:

Although there may be some overlap in code changes between MSD Communities,
ordinances will need to be customized to each community to best represent the
community’s overall vision and preferences for regulation and enforcement. For White City,
staff is recommending the following changes to the code. The council may add modify, or
remove anything, as they see fit.




                                               Introduction to Code Update Process | Page 4 of 9
1. Remove all zoning districts that are no longer applicable or no longer exist in
   the current zone map. A link to the current zone map can be found here.




2. Adopt a new zone for parks and open space to be applied to Big Bear Park.
3. Correct all errors in the code that were adopted from the previous code which
   belong to Salt Lake County, including names, dates, applicability etc. An
   example of this can be found in Section 19.02 when the zoning code is referred to as
   the “Uniform Zoning Ordinance of Salt Lake County, Utah”. Click here to see.
4. From the remaining zones chapters that will stay in the White City code, review
   the zones for compatibility with the General Plan, review the code for
   legislative updates required, and other changes as deemed by the Planning
   Commission or Council.
5. Review the code for ways to improve language for code enforcement, like
   changes for parking and property maintenance.
6. Reorganize the code and consolidate chapters to be more user friendly for staff
   and property owners and residents. This may also involve adding graphics, tables,
   or flowcharts, where appropriate to help in understanding concepts.



                                          Introduction to Code Update Process | Page 5 of 9
                      METHODOLOGY (PROCESS & COMMUNICATIONS)

Work on ordinances can be extremely complicated. Staff have designed the following methods to
make it easier for all of us to share ideas, communicate with one another, and craft a high-quality
land use ordinance. If this methodology does not work for your community, please let our staff
know so that we can adjust our process accordingly.

       Code Format: Staff anticipates that this ordinance will be a hybrid code (a mix of form-
       based and Euclidean Zoning). That is, the code will establish both use regulations and
       design standards, where applicable. To the extent possible, staff will use images and
       flowcharts to illustrate ideas and facilitate ease of use.

       The layout of the code will follow the formatting established by the legal team, through
       their work on other Titles. Numbering, indentation, and labeling will be consistent
       throughout the ordinance to improve the user experience.

       Draft Deliverables: At the end of each project phase, staff will deliver a package of Chapters
       to the Planning Commission and Council for their review. These Chapters will be presented as
       a cleaned-up PDF document that shows only the draft language. The document should
       facilitate easy reading and review. The preferred approach of staff is to repeal and replace all
       of Titles 18 and 19 when the time comes to adopt. As such, staff will not be delivering red-
       lined versions of previous ordinances (the team will be providing new chapters with some
       direction to the Commission and Council regarding where old sections live in the new draft
       code).
       To the extent possible, the project team asks that the Commission and Council consolidate
       their comments on packaged draft documents so that staff can review requested revisions all
       at once. Staff will adopt a versioning system to ensure that changes are adequately recorded
       and that the most up-to-date versions are being worked on.

       Communications: In addition to the deliverables at the end of each project phase, staff
       anticipates sending monthly reports to the Commission and Council detailing progress on
       the effort. The project is a team effort, but each community will be assigned 1-2 planners,
       the assigned planner for White City is:

                                                Erin O’Kelley
                                            Long Range Planner
                                          eokelley@msd.utah.gov

       Additionally, when the Commission and Council have finished reviewing Chapters, please
       send comments and revisions to the planner, who will work with the team on addressing
       community needs.

       Over the course of this project, our team will do our best to maintain a steady presence at
       Commission and Council meetings and be available to discuss or workshop various
       sections of the code.

                                                     Introduction to Code Update Process | Page 6 of 9
       Future Ordinance Work: Comprehensive ordinance updates sometimes take
       communities several years to complete. We recognize the urgency of our member-
       communities to complete revisions to Titles 18 & 19 before the 2023 Legislative Session.
       However, we want to remind you that these ordinances may be amended in the future, as
       well. If community conditions change to warrant new zoning requirements, or if State Code
       again dictates amendments, and even if something is later found to not be working for
       the community, staff will be here to help you amend ordinances. Once we complete the
       2022 Ordinance Updates, future clean-up will be much easier to manage.

                                        CONCLUSION

Staff is looking for feedback on the recommended changes outlined in this memo. It is important
that the key community priorities best represent the community vision that has been created in
the General Plan and upheld in other metro township efforts. Because of the hard deadline, staff
intends to continue work on this effort and continue to give monthly updates to the community
and planning commission. During public meetings it is anticipated that the planning commission
and council will have reviewed the materials ahead of time and come prepared with changes to
keep the project on schedule to complete by December 2022.




                                                  Introduction to Code Update Process | Page 7 of 9
                                           EXHIBIT A
*For more detailed information on the Title 19 Analysis, please reach out to your points of contact.

SUMMARY: The project team has reviewed all of Title 19 for the Metro Townships and Town of
Brighton Ordinances to determine the degree of changes required for each Title Chapter or
Subchapter. In some cases, ordinance chapters have not been amended since the 1980s or before.
It is recommended that a municipality’s zoning ordinance be updated as frequently as needed to
be sure the allowed uses and minimum standards are compatible with the overall vision identified
in the community’s General Plan, meet all current legal expectations as required by state or federal
law, and are fair and appropriate for the municipality’s unique situation. Therefore, the types of
changes we are recommending are based on each Chapter’s subject and are not necessarily
indicative of the needed actions for each individual section within that Chapter.

APPROACH: Although there are nonconforming uses and noncomplying structures in all Metro
Townships and the Town of Brighton, it is not the intent of staff to increase the likelihood
properties may become nonconforming. Therefore, there are many cases below where staff are
not recommending any changes in the minimum standards for a property or use but are only
recommending that the ordinance be cleaned up. This includes reformatting to make it easier
to read by fixing errors, moving sections to a more appropriate location in the ordinance,
putting unorganized lists into a table format, or consolidating similar topics into one
ordinance chapter to make it easier for property owners to find their applicable
requirements.

TYPES OF CHANGES RECOMMENDED: To best maximize the resources available to the MSD,
Metro Townships, and Town of Brighton, staff have organized the recommended changes by the
number of resources, or “amount of effort” needed to accomplish the change. Some changes can
be done quicker than others, and it may be recommended that proposed changes to the
ordinance be staggered in a way that best uses staff time. It is important to keep in mind, that this
is still a comprehensive code update, and all changes should be done with reference and review of
each other before being finally adopted. The following changes outlined below are recommended
by staff, but it the decision of the Planning Commission, Council, and legal advisers of the Metro
Township or Town whether or not to proceed with the recommended changes.

       Low effort changes (R)

       These changes can be done quickly with minimal staff time.

               Remove (R) – Where zones are no longer being used, staff is recommending
               removal of the Chapter or Sections from Title 19 altogether. This will prevent the
               zone from being requested in the future and clearly communicate desired uses and
               zones in ordinances.




                                                     Introduction to Code Update Process | Page 8 of 9
Medium effort changes (M, E, F, C, LU)

These changes involve medium effort to make the ordinance cleaner and more organized,
but do not involve changing the actual language originally written in the ordinance.

       Move (M) – It is recommended that certain chapters in Title 19 be consolidated
       with similar topics. All administrative processes like appeals and conditional use
       requirements should be in the same spot. All zone requirements that relate to
       agriculture should be in the same chapter.

       Errors (E) – Portions of Title 19 still have errors in the code relating to names, dates,
       times, or spelling. For example, some parts of Title 19 may still refer to Salt Lake
       County as the land use authority which is no longer accurate.

       Format (F) – Many of the chapters in Title 19 put requirements and standards in a
       list format. Current best practices for organizing requirements in ordinances is
       placing them into organized tables wherever possible.

       Consolidate (C) – Staff is recommending that all similar zones be consolidated
       into chapters. For example, currently there are multiple chapters that relate to
       Forestry and Recreation Zones and Uses; these should be consolidated into one
       chapter.

       Legislative Updates (LU) – Some chapters in Title 19 need to be updated to be
       compliant with the Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act and
       all other changes associated with Utah State Code.

High effort changes (S&R, PE)

These changes involve altering the language of the ordinance and will require a longer
process of review and public engagement.

       Standards or Requirements (S&R) – Where minimum requirements for
       developments are outdated or no longer compatible with the proposed use or a
       general plan it is recommended that these requirements be changed. The level of
       public engagement required for this may also be higher than with other sections.
       For example, it is recommended that all conditional use standards be updated to
       protect communities from unwanted uses and to ensure that any standards for
       conditional uses are reasonable and objective.

       Public Engagement (PU) – Some changes that are being recommended by staff
       will require some form of public engagement beyond the standard minimum
       requirements of land use ordinances and zoning amendments required in 10-9a-
       502. For example, some communities may want to engage residents on design
       standards for certain districts like a downtown or Town Center.


                                              Introduction to Code Update Process | Page 9 of 9
Chapters                      Recommended Actions NC            R    M     E     F     C    LU    S&R   GP   PE
                        No Change AND ADMINISTRATION
Chapter 19.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS                  Yes           No   No    No    No    No   Yes   No    No   0
Chapter 19.04 DEFINITIONSNew Chapter                      No    No   Yes   Yes   Yes   No   Yes   No    No   0
                                                          No    No   Yes   Yes   Yes   No   Yes   No    No   0
Chapter 19.05 PLANNING COMMISSION
                           Fix errors consolidate and move.
Chapter 19.06 ZONES, MAPS,     ANDConsolidate,
                           Format,               Move
                                      ZONE BOUNDARIES           Yes No     Yes No     Yes Yes No     No   No   0
Chapter 19.07 MOUNTAINOUS  RemovePLANNING DISTRICT              No   Yes No     No    No   No   No   No   No   0
Chapter 19.08 F-1 FORESTRY    ZONE
                           Remove                               No   Yes   No   No    No   No   No   No   No   0
                           FM-20 FORESTRY MULTIFAMILYYes
Chapter 19.10 FM-10 AND Remove                                       Yes No
                                                                 ZONES          No    No   No   No   No   No   0
Chapter 19.12 FR-0.5, FR-1,Remove                               No   Yes   No   No    No   No   No   No
                             FR-2.5, FR-5, FR-10, FR-20, FR-50 AND FR-100 FORESTRY AND RECREATION ZONES   No   0
                            R-1-5,Consolidate,
Chapter 19.14 R-1-3, R-1-4,Format,   R-1-6, R-1-7,
                                                 Move           No R-1-15,
                                                                     No
                                                     R-1-8, R-1-10,        Yes  No R-1-43
                                                                                      Yes SINGLE-FAMILY
                                                                           R-1-21,         Yes No    No RESIDENTIAL
                                                                                                          Yes 0     ZONES
Chapter 19.15 REGULATE INTERIOR        ACCESSORY
                           Format, Consolidate,  MoveDWELLINGNoUNITS       Yes No
                                                                     No IN RESIDENTIALYesZONES
                                                                                           Yes AND
                                                                                                No TONo   YesRELATED
                                                                                                      ENACT    0     REGULATI
Chapter 19.32 R-2-6.5, R-2-8,
                           Remove                               No   Yes
                               R-2-10 MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL ZONES     No   No    No   No   No   No   No   0
Chapter 19.38 R-2-10C RESIDENTIAL
                           Remove       ZONE                    Yes Yes No      No    No   No   No   No   No   0
Chapter 19.40 R-4-8.5 RESIDENTIAL
                           Remove ZONE                          No   Yes No     No    No   No   No   No   No   0
Chapter 19.42 S-1-G RESIDENTIAL
                           Remove ZONE                          No   Yes   No   No    No   No   No   No   No   0
Chapter 19.44 R-M RESIDENTIAL
                           RemoveZONE                           No   Yes No     No    No   No   No   No   No   0
Chapter 19.45 O-R-D OFFICE    RESEARCH PARK AND DEVELOPMENT
                           Remove                               No   Yes ZONE
                                                                           No   No    No   No   No   No   No   0
Chapter 19.46 RMH RESIDENTIAL MOBILE HOME ZONE
                           Remove                               No   Yes   No   No    No   No   No   No   No   0
Chapter 19.48 A-1 AGRICULTURAL
                           ConsolidateZONE
                                        with A zones            No   No    Yes No     Yes Yes No     No   Yes 0
Chapter 19.50 A-2 AGRICULTURE       ZONE
                           Consolidate  with A zones            No   No    Yes  No    Yes  Yes  No   No   Yes 0
Chapter 19.52 A-5, A-10 AND    A-20 AGRICULTURAL
                           Consolidate  with A zones    ZONES No No Yes No Yes Yes No No Yes 0
                                                                No
                             FA-10 AND FA-20 FOOTHILL AGRICULTURE
Chapter 19.54 FA-2.5, FA-5,Remove                                    Yes NoZONESNo    No   No   No   No   No   0
Chapter 19.55 MD-1 AND MD-3Remove MIXED DEVELOPMENT ZONES       No   Yes   No   No    No   No   No   No   No   0
Chapter 19.56 C-1 COMMERCIAL        ZONE
                           Consolidate  with C zones            No   No    Yes No     Yes Yes No     No   Yes 0
Chapter 19.60 C-V COMMERCIAL        ZONE
                           Consolidate  with C zones            No   No    Yes No     Yes Yes No     No   Yes 0
Chapter 19.62 C-2 COMMERCIAL ZONE
                           Consolidate  with C zones            No   No    Yes  No    Yes  Yes  No   No   Yes 0
Chapter 19.64 C-3 COMMERCIAL
                           RemoveZONE                           No   Yes No     No    No   No   No   No   No   0
Chapter 19.66 M-1 MANUFACTURING
                           Remove         ZONE                  No   Yes   No   No    No   No   No   No   No   0
Chapter 19.68 M-2 MANUFACTURING
                           Remove         ZONE                  No   Yes No     No    No   No   No   No   No   0
Chapter 19.70 AOZ AIRPORT     OVERLAY ZONE
                           Remove                               No   Yes No     No    No   No   No   No   No   0
Chapter 19.71 RESIDENTIALRemove
                             COMPATIBILITY OVERLAY ZONE         No   Yes   No   No    No   No   No   No   No   0
Chapter 19.72 FOOTHILLS ANDRemoveCANYONS OVERLAY ZONE No Yes No No No No No No No 0
Chapter 19.73 FOOTHILLS ANDRemoveCANYONS SITE DEVELOPMENT       No AND
                                                                     Yes DESIGN
                                                                           No   No    No
                                                                                 STANDARDS No   No   No   No   0
Chapter 19.74 FLOOD DAMAGE Remove PREVENTION AND CONTROL        No   Yes   No   No    No   No   Yes  No   No   0
                             HAZARDS ORDINANCE* (Formerly
Chapter 19.75 GEOLOGICALRemove                                  No "Natural
                                                                     Yes No Hazard    No
                                                                                No Areas") No   Yes No    No   0
Chapter 19.76 SUPPLEMENTARY        AND QUALIFYING REGULATIONS
                           No Change                            Yes No     No   No    No   No   No   No   No   0
                                                          No    No   No    No    No    No   Yes   Yes   No   2
Chapter 19.77 WATER EFFICIENT    LANDSCAPE
                         Update standards      DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
                                          and requiremetns
Chapter 19.78 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
                         Consolidate, format, move         No  No  Yes No Yes Yes           No    No    No   0
                            Change SYSTEM PLACEMENT Yes
Chapter 19.79 UTILITY ANDNoFACILITY                            No  No
                                                           REGULATIONS No No  No            No    No    No   0
                                                          No    No   No    No    No    No   No    Yes   No   2
Chapter 19.80 OFF-STREET Update
                         PARKING    REQUIREMENTS
                                standards and requirements
Chapter 19.81 HIGHWAY NOISE   ABATEMENT MEASURES Yes
                         No Change                              No   No    No    No    No   No    No    No   0
                                                          Yes   No   No    No    No    No   Yes   Yes   No   2
Chapter 19.82 SIGNS     Update standards and requirements
Chapter 19.83 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS
                        No Change                          No
                                                   FACILITIES   No   No    No    No    No   No    No    No   0
                                                          Yes   No    No    No    No    No     Yes   Yes   No    3
Chapter 19.84 CONDITIONAL   USES
                         Update standards and requirements
Chapter 19.85 HOME BUSINESS
                         No Change                         Yes No No  No          No    No     No    No    No    0
Chapter 19.86 HISTORIC PRESERVATION
                         New Chapter                       Yes No No  No          No    No     No    Yes   No    2
Chapter 19.87 RESIDENTIALNoFACILITIES
                            Change                                Yes No
                                       FOR PERSONS WITHNoA DISABILITY
                                                               No                 Yes   Yes    No    No    No    0
                                                          No    No    Yes   No    Yes   Yes    Yes   Yes   No    2
Chapter 19.88 NONCONFORMING      USES AND
                        Update standards     NONCOMPLYING STRUCTURES*
                                         and requirements
Chapter 19.90 AMENDMENTS    AND REZONING
                        Consolidate and move              No  No Yes No           Yes   Yes    No    No    No    0
Chapter 19.91 SEXUALLY ORIENTED
                        No Change BUSINESSES              Yes No No  No           No    No     No    Yes   No    1
                        Update standards and requiremetns Yes No      Yes   No    Yes   Yes    Yes   Yes   No    1
Chapter 19.92 LAND USE HEARING
                        and move OFFICER
Chapter 19.93 PROCEDURESMove   ANALYZING TAKINGS CLAIMS
                          FORConsolidate                  No  No      Yes   No    Yes   Yes    Yes   No    No    0
                                                          No    No    Yes   No    Yes   Yes    No    Yes   No    1
Chapter 19.94 ENFORCEMENT
                      Update standards and requirements
                                                          13    22    18    2     18    16     11    9     8
                                                          No Change  Move Errors FormatConsolidate
                                                                Remove                                     General
                                                                                                    Standards
                                                                                             Legislative Updates
                                                                                                              and Requirements
                                                                                                                   Plan Implementatio
                               The
       White City Metro Township
      Emergency Communications
                Plan




                               2022


                                1
Emergency Communication Plan
TABLE OF CONTENTS

                  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE                               3

                  CONTEXT AND APPROACH                               3

                  SECTION 1 – ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES             4

                  SECTION 2 – COMMUNICATIONS INTERNAL                4

                  SECTION 3 – COMMUNICATIONS - EXTERNAL – ECC        4

                  SECTION 4 – COMMUNICATIONS - EXTERNAL – MEDIA      5

                  SECTION 5 – COMMUNICATIONS – PUBLIC                5

                  SECTION 6 – PLAN MAINTENANCE                       6

                  SECTION 7 – RESOURCES                              7

                               EMERGENCY CONTACTS                    8

                  ANNEX A – Emergency Communications Check List      9

                  ANNEX B – Emergency Situational Awareness         12

                  ANNEX C – Emergency GO KIT                        14

                  ANNEX D – Public Contact for Metro Township       15

                  ANNEX E – Sample Press Release Template for MSD   16

                  ANNEX F = Questions by the EM Duty Officer        17




                                              2
Emergency Communication Plan
STATEMENT OF PURPOSE
 The purpose of the White City Metro Township Emergency Communications Plan is to
 provide a guide for the elected officials of White City Metro Township to quickly prepare
 and respond with timely and accurate communications to internal and external partners
 during a major emergency or disaster.

 Emergencies and disaster situations include, but are not limited to wildfire, flood, storm,
 earthquake, epidemic, chemical spill, technological hazards created as a byproduct of our
 modern society, or other calamities threatening life or property.

CONTEXT AND APPROACH
    •    Most emergencies occur with limited notification or warning and can present an
         immediate threat to the community.
    •    Through social media, information and speculation can spread within minutes of the
         event.
    •    In consideration of the above, timely and accurate communication is critical for the safety
         and wellbeing of the community.
    •    It is critical that White City Metro Township maintains communications with the Greater
         Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD) and the Salt Lake County Emergency
         Coordination Center (ECC) at the time of a disaster or major emergency.
    •    During an emergency, whether it is local or countywide, all communications with the
         public and media shall be handled in conjunction with the Salt Lake County Emergency
         Management Public Information Officer (EM PIO).

SECTION 1- Roles and Responsibilities
When a major emergency or disaster strikes, the first 12 to 24 hours are vitally important. The
purpose of this Emergency Communications Plan is to guide the White City Metro Township
Mayor and/or councilmembers.

Prior to an Emergency – Preparedness
Planning, Preparedness, and Training are three of the Goals for the Emergency Communications
Plan. This plan recommends the White City Metro Township Mayor, councilmembers, and their
designated Communications Liaison Officer (CLO) do the following prior to the emergency:
     •   White City Metro Township will designate one of the elected officials to act as the
         Township Communications Liaison Officer (CLO). The CLO can be the Mayor, one of
         the White City Metro Township members, someone appointed by the council, or the
         MSD Communications Manager.
     •   The CLO will work with the Mayor, the Township Council, the Emergency Manager,
         the MSD Communication Manager, the EM PIO and the Joint Information Center (JIC)
         if established.

                                                  3
Emergency Communication Plan
     • The White City Metro Township Council will identify a secondary person for the CLO,
       who will assume the position mentioned above, if the primary person is unable to
       respond due to illness, injury, vacations, or personal reasons.
     • The White City Metro Township CLO, working with the MSD Communications
       Manager, shall be the spokesperson for the White City Metro Township to the media and
       the public.
     • All messages to the media and the public from the White City Metro Township CLO can
       or may be reviewed and cleared with the MSD Communications Manager. If the incident
       becomes large scale and spans multiple jurisdictions, then messages will be coming from
       the JIC.

Declared Emergency - Local or Countywide Emergency
     •       The White City Metro Township Mayor or CLO will call the Salt Lake County EM Duty
             Officer at 801-896-7526. Be prepared to answer questions found in Annex D.
     •       The White City Metro Township CLO will work directly with the Salt Lake County EM
             PIO, or JIC, if it is established, in the development and sending of all Integrated Public
             Alert and Warning System (IPAWS) messages during an emergency or a major disaster.
     •       The White City Metro Township CLO will work directly with the Salt Lake County EM
             PIO in the development and sending of all Wireless Emergency Alerts (WEA) for cell
             phones and emergency Alert System messages (EAS) for radio and television, at the
             time of an emergency or major disaster.
     •       The White City Metro Township CLO will use the Pre-Incident/Event or Emergency
             Response checklist (Annex A.)
     •       It is recommended that the Township Communications Liaison Officer have a Go Kit
             (Annex C)


SECTION 2 – Communications – Internal
The White City Metro Township CLO or their designee will:
         •     Determine if cell and landline phones are available. If available, contact the Mayor,
               the members of the White City Metro Township Council, and advise them of the
               situation.

         •     Determine if internet capability is available. If available, contact the Salt Lake
               County Emergency Coordination Center (ECC) and the EM Public Information
               Officer (EM PIO) and advise them of their capability.

         •     Phones (landlines and cell phones) will be the primary means of communication
               between ECC and the White City Metro Township. Determine if text messaging is
               available. It is often the most resilient in a large-scale emergency.



                                                      4
Emergency Communication Plan
         •    If unable to contact township mayor or council members, try your GETS number.
              This number will put you in a priority status above other calls.

         •    If township or town has radios, ensure they are operable.


         •    If there is a Ham radio available in your community, where is it located? It is located
              at ____________________. The HAM Frequency is _________________. Make
              contact with the HAM operator.


 SECTION 3 - Communication Availability with the Emergency
 Coordination Center (ECC) – External
 At the time of a declared local or countywide emergency, the White City Metro Township CLO
 will:
     •       Make cell or landline phone contact with the ECC and the EM PIO or JIC. Contact
             numbers in Section 7 Resources.
     •       Work directly with the EM PIO or JIC, if established.
     •       When contacting the ECC, the EM PIO, or JIC, give your name, metro township name,
             and your callback number. Be prepared to give an assessment of the conditions in your
             township. Emergency Situation Assessment Checklist (Annex B).
     •       Ensure that this assessment coordinates with those making entries into WebEOC for
             White City Metro Township.


 SECTION 4 - Communication External – Media

     •       If the emergency is local, the White City Metro Township CLO will contact the Salt
             Lake County EM PIO to coordinate with the media.

     •       If the emergency is large or countywide, media messages will be forwarded to the
             White City Metro Township CLO from the county EM PIO or JIC if it is established.

     •       The White City Metro Township CLO will use cell, landline, texting, or satellite phone
             (if available) to contact the SLCo EM PIO.

     •       The White City Metro Township CLO media releases, EAS and WEA alerts that are
             approved and coordinated, with Salt Lake County EM PIO or Joint Information Center
             (JIC) as necessary.




                                                    5
Emergency Communication Plan
SECTION 5 – Communications External - Public
       •   The White City Metro Township CLO will use any messages, press releases, social
           media posts, etc. for the public that have been authorized by the Salt Lake County
           EM PIO or JIC. The White City Metro Township CLO will work with the EM
           PIO/JIC on messages to be given to the public.

       •   Text messaging, internet, and/or social media sites can be used to reach the public. If
           the internet is available, the White City Metro Township website, as well as any social
           media accounts, should be updated for the public regarding the disaster status. Check
           with the SLCo EM PIO or JIC that all texts, internet posts, or social media posts are
           approved.


 SECTION 6 – Plan Maintenance
     1. The White City Metro Township Mayor, Township Council, the CLO, and MSD
        Communications Manager will review these guidelines yearly.

     2. This guide shall be reviewed after every emergency or exercise.




                                                 6
Emergency Communication Plan
SECTION 7 – Resources
The following is a list of resources located in Salt Lake County with emergency contact
numbers.

 Salt Lake County Emergency Management- contact for help with issuing a disaster
 declaration, UFA Wildland Fire Crew status, FEMA, S.A.F.E. Neighborhoods program, Utah
 Department of Emergency Management.


 Red Cross DAT- (Red Cross Disaster Action Team), Blood, Psychological First Aid (for
 PTSD and other emotional support programs), disaster agency referrals


 MARC (Multi-Agency Resource Center)-provides on-site community meeting
 opportunities with lawyers, medical and home insurance, cleaning companies,
 construction repairs, etc.


 VOAD (Voluntary Organizations Active in Disasters)-Connects with specialized church
 services such as The Church of Jesus Christ Latter-Day Saints (food, clothing), Southern
 Baptist Disaster Relief (house cleaning), Salvation Army (housing, food), and agencies like
 Habitat for Humanity (builders)


 Amateur Radio- provides personnel and equipment to operate Ham radios.


 Team Rubicon- Military veterans who provide personnel and chainsaws to help with tree
 and structure failure. In addition, medical personnel may be available.


 Salt Lake County Health Department- serves to protect the health and safety of residents in
 any emergency and provides guidance with flood mitigation, sewage contamination, food
 protection, housing, and infectious disease.

 Salt Lake County Public Works- provides sandbags, issues with downed trees, critical
 infrastructure, equipment to repair roads and infrastructure.


 Salt Lake County Aging and Adult Services- provides resources for housing, transportation,
 in-home personal care and health insurance.


 Salt Lake County Medical Reserve Corps- provides health care volunteers to help with
 floods, sewage contamination.




                                               7
Emergency Communication Plan
Emergency Contacts
 Fire/Police/Paramedics             911

  MEDICAL
  Poison Control Center        800.222.1222
  Hospitals
  Alta View Hospital           801.501.2600
  U of U Emergency Room        801.581.2291
  Primary Children’s Hosp.     801.662.1000
  LDS Hospital                 801.408.1100
  St. Marks Hospital           801.268.7111
  IHC Hospital-Murray          801.507.7000
  Care Now                     801.943.3300
  After Hours Medical          801.509.9425
  After Hours Medical-Sandy    801.609.9864

  PUBLIC SAFETY
  Sheriff Dispatch             801-840-4000
  Sandy Fire Department        801.568.7100
  UFA Non-emergency            801.743.7200
  SLCo Public Works 924x7)     385.468.6101
  Sanitation (Trash)           385.468.6325
  Watershed                    801.483.6884
  Forest Service               801.236.3400
  Public Lands Info            801.466.6411
  Sewer District               801.558.9891
  Road Conditions              511
  Flood Control                385.468.6600
  Trees on Power Lines         888.221.7070

  SALT LAKE COUNTY
  Emergency Manager – Clint Mecham
  801-330-8491 (mobile) - 801-743-7103 (office)
  cmecham@unifiedfire.org

  Salt Lake County Health Department
  385-468-4124
  HealthEMB@slco.org

  Salt Lake County Aging and Adult Services
  385-468-3200
  slcoagingservices@slco.org




                                              8
Emergency Communication Plan
Emergency Contacts Cont.

NON-GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATIONS – NGO’S

Red Cross Disaster Action Team - Toni Wise
801-440-8757 (mobile) 801-323-7002 (office) Toni.wise@redcross.org

MARC Multi-Agency Resource Center
Toni Wise (see above) or Lisa Bagley (see below)
VOAD Voluntary Organizations Active in Disasters
Lisa Bagley lisabagley@gmail.com

Amateur Radios
Kelly Weldon hcleeyweldon@msn.com

Team Rubicon Noelle.Skilton@teamrubiconusa.org
Or Robert.Toth@teamrubicon.us.org




                                              9
Emergency Communication Plan
ANNEX A


EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS CHECK LIST
Pre-Notice of or Eminent Emergency (Events included)
The Mayor and/or Mayor Pro Tem will work with the White City Metro Township CLO and the
MSD Communications Manager to help direct information and notifications to the media and the
public.
______           Ensure all your family members are safe and accounted for
______           Gather all essential information on the emergency (if possible)
______           Determine map boundaries of the emergency (if possible)
______           Check local weather conditions – rain, snow, high winds, heat
______           Check on status of Township communications-cell phones, landlines, radios
______           Determine Status of utilities-gas, electricity, and water
______           Determine status of Township roads-any roadways that will or may be blocked
______           Ensure status of all White City Metro Township Council members and
                 personnel
______           Advise all White City Metro Township Council members of possible
                 emergency
______           Contact Salt Lake County Emergency Manager or the ECC at the 24-hour County
                 Emergency Hot Line for any critical information
______           Contact Greater Salt Lake MSD Manager and MSD Communications Manager
                 advising them of the possible or eminent emergency
______           Identify location of Incident Command Post in your area and send White City
                 Metro Township representative




                                                   10
Emergency Communication Plan
Annex A cont.


Emergency or Disaster Strikes – Emergency Declaration
The Mayor and/or Mayor Pro Tem will work with the White City Metro Township CLO and the
EM PIO or JIC if established to help direct information and notifications to the media and the
public.
______           Ensure all your family members are safe and accounted for
______           Gather and update all essential information (if possible)
______           Determine map boundaries of the emergency (if possible)
______           Check local weather conditions – rain, snow, high winds, heat
______           Check status of Township communications-check phone and internet capability
______           Determine status of utilities-gas, water, electricity
______           Determine roadways that are blocked
______           Check Emergency Situation Assessment Sheet (Annex B)
______           Identify any hazardous conditions-lines down, hazardous materials
______           Determine access points into and out of the disaster area
______           Decide if an Emergency Declaration for the White City Metro Township
                 is needed
______           Declare a Formal Emergency if needed using the appropriate form
______           Contact Salt Lake County Emergency Manager or the Emergency Coordination
                 Center 24-hour County Emergency and advise them of Emergency Declaration
______           Contact all White City Metro Township Council Members and advise them of the
                 declared emergency
______           Contact the Greater Salt Lake MSD Manager and the MSD Communications
                 Manager or designee and advise them of the Emergency Declaration
______           Determine if you need to activate your Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP). If
                 so, activate your COOP and follow the COOP guideline
______           Identify all evacuation routes and relocation sites available within the White City
                 Metro Township




                                                   11
Emergency Communication Plan
Annex B


Emergency Situation Assessment
    1. What is the area affected?
       • What are the major crossroads or geographic reference point?
       • Residential or commercial area?
             o Residential (single family, condominium/ apartments, trailer, multiplex)?
             o Commercial (types of businesses)?
             o Industrial (types of activities)?
       • Hospital or Medical facilities?
       • Universities, high schools, middle schools, elementary schools, or private schools?

    2. Are people injured?
       • How many are injured? Deaths?
       • Are additional medical transport assets needed (Public Transit, Para-Transit)?
       • Does an Alternate Care Site need to be established?
       • Does the hospital require evacuation?

    3. Are people displaced?
       • How many (population estimate)?
       • Vulnerable Populations?
             o Assisted-living homes?
             o Disaster Registry residents?
             o Day care facilities?
             o Senior housing?
       • Are temporary reception centers necessary (busses, facilities)?
       • Can we expect pets?
       • Can we expect unaccompanied minors?

    4. Are critical infrastructure or are major transportation hubs threatened?
       • Energy (power / natural gas facilities or distribution systems)?
       • Telecommunications systems?
       • Water / waste-water systems?
       • Major fuel storage?
       • Port / Airports / Rail?
       • Major transportation corridors?
       • Hospitals / medical clinics?
       • Government buildings (local, state, federal)?
       • Schools & shelter facilities?




                                              12
Emergency Communication Plan
    5. Is commerce disrupted?
       • Types of vendors (retail stores, restaurants, warehouse / distribution centers,
           industrial sites)?
       • Disruption of supply chain (roads/airport)?




                                               13
Emergency Communication Plan
Annex C

Emergency Go Kit for White City Metro Townships Officials
and CLO
    •   Vest
    •   White City Metro Township ID with lanyard
    •   Driver’s License (Personal ID)
    •   Flashlight
    •   Clip board with paper and writing utensils
    •   Several bottle of waters (not full, may freeze)
    •   Dried food snacks
    •   Coat and comfortable boots or shoes
    •   Any medicines




                                                 14
Emergency Communication Plan
Annex D


Public Contacts for White City Metro Township
White City Metro Township website: https://www.
White City Metro Township does not have its own Facebook or Twitter account.
These are private accounts that are useful for sending out information to White City Metro
Township community members:
        White City Metro Township xx.xx members
        White City Metro Township Supporters xx.xx members
        White City Metro Township Residents xx.xx members
        White City Metro Township Chamber of Commerce xx.xx members


MSD Communications Manager Contact: Maridene Alexander C. 801.831.7224
        Office number: 385.468-6733
        Website: https://msd.utah.gov/
        Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/GSLMSD/
        Twitter: https://twitter.com/GreaterSLMSD




                                               15
Emergency Communication Plan
Annex E

Sample Press Release from Municipal Services District
Press Release Template:




NEWS RELEASE
Date


SALT LAKE CITY, UT. The Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD) has been providing
services to homeowners and businesses that have reported damage from the 5.7 earthquake
we experienced on March 18, 2020.

Salt Lake County Public Works Operations crews and the MSD building inspectors have been
carefully inspecting homes, buildings and infrastructure for any earthquake damage.

The MSD is asking community members to conduct a visual assessment of their home or
business. Look for cracks in the foundation or damage to exterior or interior walls. Take a
photo of any damage.

If you have damage, complete the online form or call one of the numbers listed below.

                 Complete the online form at https://arcg.is/1uGXee or
                   on the MSD website main page msd.utah.gov

                 During business hours (8 a.m. to 5 p.m.) call (385) 468-6723
                 After hours call (385) 468-6690 and leave a message

                                              ###

                     Maridene Alexander, Communications Manager, 801.831.7224

       GSLMSD  2001 S State Street, #N3-600  Salt Lake City  UT  84190     msd.utah.gov

                                                16
Emergency Communication Plan
ANNEX F


Questions by the EM Duty Officer
At the time of an emergency, when the Mayor or the White City Metro
Township CLO call the ECC 24-hour number, the Duty Officer may ask
the following questions:
    •   What happened?
    •   When did it happen?
    •   Where did it happen?
    •   What was the cause? (if you know the cause)
    •   What population is affected?
    •   How is the population affected?
    •   What is the extent of the damage?
    •   What is the current impact on the Metro Township?
    •   How did you learn of the incident?
    •   Are there any emergency PIO requirements?




                                        17
Emergency Communication Plan
The White City Metro Township

EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS PLAN
WHAT PLANS DO WE NEED AND WHY?
FEMA and the Department of Homeland Security requires all
municipalities have a number of emergency plans to qualify
for grant funding and recovery funds:
• Hazardous Mitigation Plan (Passed in 2019)
• Emergency Operations Plan (Passed in 2020)
• Continuity of Operation (Passed 2021)
• Emergency Communications Plan
• Debris Management Plan (presently being worked on at the county
  level)
Emergency Communications Plan Break Down
• Purpose and Goals
• Context and Approach
• Identifies Roles and Responsibilities
• How to talk with the public, media, and ECC prior to an event, local
  emergency, or declared emergencies/countywide disasters
• Communications Internally
• Communications Externally with the ECC or Emergency Management
  Division, the Media, and the Public
The Communications Plan cont.
• Plan maintenance
• Resources and Contacts
• Communications check lists for events and emergencies
• Recommended Emergency Go-Kit for municipality officials
• Public Contacts and a sample Press Release
• Questions that may be asked by the Emergency Management Duty
  Officer when you call the ECC
Highlights of the Emergency Communications
Plan
• White City Metro Township will need to identify a spokesperson or
  Community Communications Liaison Officer (CLO)
• This could be the Mayor, a council member, or someone designated
  by the council
• The CLO may work with the MSD Communications Manager at times
  of non-emergencies or with events
• During emergencies, the CLO shall work with the Emergency
  Management Public Information Officer (EM PIO) or the Joint
  Information Center (JIC) if it is established
Highlights of the Emergency Communications
Plan cont.
Events or non-emergencies
• At the request of the municipality, the MSD Communications
  Manager may work with the CLO as the spokesperson for the
  municipality to the media and the public.
• The MSD Communications Manager is available as requested to
  review any communications or statements to the media and the
  public from the municipal CLO. If the incident becomes large scale
  and spans multiple jurisdictions, then the CLO should coordinate with
  the JIC.
Highlights of the Emergency Communications
Plan cont.
During Emergencies or Disasters
• The CLO will work directly with the Salt Lake County EM PIO in the
  development and sending of all Wireless Emergency Alerts (WEA) for
  cell phones and emergency Alert System messages (EAS) for radio and
  television, at the time of an emergency or major disaster.
• If the emergency is large or countywide, media messages will be
  forwarded to the CLO from the county EM PIO or JIC
Highlights of the Emergency Communications
Plan cont.
• The CLO will use any messages, press releases, social media posts,
  etc. for the public that have been authorized by the Salt Lake County
  EM PIO or JIC. The CLO will work with the EM PIO/JIC on messages to
  be given to the public.
• Text messaging, internet, and/or social media sites can be used to
  reach the public. If the internet is available, the Town or Metro
  Township website, as well as any social media accounts, should be
  updated for the public regarding the disaster status. Check with the
  SLCo EM PIO or JIC that all texts, internet posts, or social media posts
  are approved.
Highlights of the Emergency Communications
Plan cont.
• The White City Metro Township Mayor, Township Council, the CLO,
  and MSD Communications Manager will review these guidelines
  yearly and after every emergency or exercise
• A list of resources and emergency contacts
• Non-emergency, events, and emergency check lists for the Mayor or
  CLO giving them steps to follow
• Emergency Situation Assessment check list
• Recommended items for an Emergency Go-Kit
Highlights of the Emergency Communications
Plan cont.
• Public contacts for the White City Metro Township
• Sample press release from the MSD
• List of questions that may be asked by the EM 24-Hour Duty Officer at
  the time of an emergency or disaster
Highlights of the Emergency Communications
Plan cont.
The CLO, working with the Mayor and/or Emergency
Coordinator will:
• Determine if cell or land line phones are available
• Determine if the internet is available
• If available, contact the ECC to advise them
• I am working with the MSD to obtain a GETS card for each of the
  CLO’s for each municipality
Highlights of the Emergency Communications
Plan cont.
• Determine if there are Ham radio operators available in your
  community. Identify there location and their frequency
• Use your Emergency Situation Assessment Check List to identify the
  size and impact of the emergency
• When calling the ECC or the 24-hour EM Duty Officer, be prepared to
  answer several questions. A check list of questions is located in
  Annex F.
Next Steps
• Review and approval of the Emergency Communications Plan by the
  MSD Council
• Presentation, review, and adoption by resolution of the Emergency
  Communications Plan by each member of the MSD
• Meet with White City Metro Township mayor and council to discus
  the EOP, COOP, and the Emergency Communications Plan and how
  they all work together
• Future projects will include the S.A.F.E. Neighborhood Program,
  WebEOC, and the county’s Comprehensive Emergency Management
  Plan
Questions?
70 White City - 01/01/2022 to 05/24/2022


                                           Account                                                                2023 Proposed
                                                      2021 Actual   2021 Budget   2022 Actual   Original Budget
                                             No.                                                                     Budget

Change In Net Position
 Revenue:
  Taxes
   Sales taxes
    3100.300 Sales Tax                       3100.3       839,668       637,269       267,984         635,000          865,000
   Total Sales taxes                                      839,668       637,269       267,984         635,000          865,000

  Total Taxes                                             839,668       637,269       267,984         635,000          865,000

  Intergovernmental revenue
   Intergovernmental Other
    3100.350 SB 136 Sales Tax               3100.35        78,167        57,919        25,494          62,500           81,000
   Total Intergovernmental Other                           78,167        57,919        25,494          62,500           81,000

   B&C Road Fund Allotment
    3100.560 B&C Road Fund Allotment        3100.56       228,747       201,941        76,173         218,000          225,000
   Total B&C Road Fund Allotment                          228,747       201,941        76,173         218,000          225,000

   State liquor fund
    3100.580 State Liquor Fund Allotment    3100.58            -          2,700            -             2,800         2,800.00
   Total State liquor fund                                     -          2,700            -             2,800         2,800.00

   CARES Act
    3100.325 Grants-CARES                  3100.325         6,606           -              -               -                -
   Total CARES Act                                          6,606           -              -               -

  Total Intergovernmental revenue                         313,520       262,560       101,667         283,300          308,800

  Licenses and permits
 Business licenses
  3100.130 Business Licenses                  3100.13    4,194       -       972      2,800     1,000
 Total Business licenses                                 4,194       -       972      2,800     1,000

 Building permits
  3100.260 Building Permit                    3100.26   32,172       -     16,979    35,000    25,000
 Total Building permits                                 32,172       -     16,979    35,000    25,000

 Other license and permits
  3100.261 Other Permits                     3100.261      -         -        -      10,000    10,000
  3100.263 Sewer and Water Permits           3100.263      -         -        -         -         -
  3100.264 Zoning-Land Use Permit            3100.264    1,145       -       (110)      -         -
 Total Other license and permits                         1,145       -       (110)   10,000    10,000

Total Licenses and permits                              37,511       -     17,841    47,800    36,000

Charges for services
 Charges other
  3100.420 Engineering Services               3100.42    4,940     8,492   11,466       500     25,000
  3100.450 Planning Services                  3100.45    2,240   105,100      350    25,000   1,000.00
 Total Charges other                                     7,180   113,592   11,816    25,500     26,000

Total Charges for services                               7,180   113,592   11,816    25,500    26,000

Fines and forfeitures
 Code enforcement fines and fees
  3100.240 Code Enforcement Fines and Fees    3100.24      -       1,600      -       1,500   1,500.00
 Total Code enforcement fines and fees                     -       1,600      -       1,500      1,500

 Justice court fines/forfeitures
  3100.500 Justice Court Fines/Forfeitures     3100.5   24,947    24,500    9,147    40,000    30,000
 Total Justice court fines/forfeitures                  24,947    24,500    9,147    40,000    30,000

Total Fines and forfeitures                             24,947    26,100    9,147    41,500    31,500
 Interest
  3600.100 Interest Earnings                  3600.1       1,125          -       1,124      2,500       2,200
 Total Interest                                            1,125          -       1,124      2,500       2,200

 Miscellaneous revenue
  Miscellaneous other
   3600.900 Other Revenue                      3600.9          10         -         -           -           -
   3600.950 Non-Interlocal Revenue designated 3600.95         -           -         -           -           -
  Total Miscellaneous other                                    10         -         -           -           -

 Total Miscellaneous revenue                                  10          -         -           -           -

 Contributions and transfers
  3800.100 Contribution from GF               3800.1     280,457     280,457    349,551    349,551     349,551
 Total Contributions and transfers                       280,457     280,457    349,551    349,551     349,551

Total Revenue:                                          1,504,418   1,319,978   759,130   1,385,151   1,619,051

Expenditures:
 Administration
  4100.100 Wages                              4100.1      20,414      29,066     21,313     71,400      71,400
  4100.130 Employee Benefits                 4100.13       3,436         -        4,181      5,896       5,896
  4100.200 Awards, Promotional & Meals        4100.2         489         -          -          -           -
  4100.210 Subscriptions/Memberships         4100.21          25       1,070      2,800      1,070       1,070
  4100.220 Printing/Publications/Advertising 4100.22       2,754       1,000        961      1,000       1,000
  4100.240 Office Expense and Supplies       4100.24         622       1,070        100      1,070       1,070
  4100.310 Attorney-Civil                    4100.31      39,139      50,000      9,618     60,000      60,000
  4100.320 Attorney-Land Use                 4100.32       2,548         -          -          -           -
  4100.330 Training and Seminars             4100.33         295       1,070        -        1,070       1,070
  4100.350 Budget and Auditing               4100.35         -           -          -          -           -
  4100.360 Web Page Development/Maintenance4100.36         2,800       3,210        -        3,210       3,210
  4100.370 Software/Streaming                4100.37         506         -          206        -           -
  4100.390 Payroll Processing Fees           4100.39       1,041         900        353        900         900
   4100.410 Communications                       4100.41        -         3,200        -        3,200       3,200
   4100.420 Contributions/Special Events         4100.42     10,000      18,200        -       28,000      28,000
   4100.470 Credit card and Bank Expenses        4100.47        -           535        -          535         535
   4100.510 Insurance                            4100.51      9,303       9,951      4,281     10,000      10,000
   4100.520 Workers Comp Insurance               4100.52        492         -          -          -           -
   4100.590 Postage                              4100.59        974         -        1,065        -           -
   4100.600 Professional and Technical            4100.6     48,693     104,385     18,000    105,000     105,000
   4100.625 UFA Emergency Services              4100.625     10,085      10,000      4,305     10,000      10,000
   4100.650 SL (Client) County Support Services 4100.65      10,178      37,500      3,089     37,500      37,500
   4100.750 Non-Cap Improvements                 4100.75        -           -          -          -           -
   4100.850 Justice Court Remediation            4100.85        -         2,700        -        2,700       2,700
   4100.870 Rent                                 4100.87      1,699       2,000        -        2,000       2,000
   4100.880 Non-Classified Expenses              4100.88        -         4,600        -        5,000       5,000
   4100.900 Sundry Charges                        4100.9        -           -          -          -           -
  Total Administration                                      165,493     280,457     70,272    349,551     349,551

  CARES Act
   4100.241 COVID Expense and Supplies         4100.241         -            -         -           -           -
   4100.242 CARES 2 Expense and Supplies       4100.242       1,078          -      11,933         -           -
   4100.929 Contribution to General Fund COVID 4100.929       5,527          -         -           -           -
  Total CARES Act                                             6,605          -      11,933         -           -

  Transfers
   4100.928 Contribution to General Fund       4100.928    1,217,355   1,039,521   276,477   1,035,600   1,269,500
   4100.930 Contribution to Capital Fund        4100.93          -           -         -           -
  Total Transfers                                          1,217,355   1,039,521   276,477   1,035,600   1,269,500

 Total Expenditures:                                       1,389,453   1,319,978   358,682   1,385,151   1,619,051

Total Change In Net Position                                114,965          -     400,448         -           -
                                      Administration
                                White City Township
                                      FY 2023

Administration    SUMMARY                                     Final         Tentative
                                             Actual          Budget          Budget       %
                                            FY 2021         FY 2022         FY 2023      Diff.
           Account Name
Wages                                   $      20,414   $      71,400   $       71,400    0.0%
Employee benefits                               3,436           5,896            5,896    0.0%
Subscriptions, memberships                        513           1,070            1,070    0.0%
Printing/publications/advertising               2,754           1,000            1,000    0.0%
Office expense and supplies                       622           1,070            1,070    0.0%
Attorney-civil                                 39,138          60,000           60,000    0.0%
Attorney-land use                               2,548               -                -    0.0%
Training and seminars                             295           1,070            1,070    0.0%
Web page development/maintenance                2,800           3,210            3,210    0.0%
Software/streaming                                506               -                -    0.0%
Payroll processing fees                         1,041             900              900    0.0%
Communications                                      -           3,200            3,200    0.0%
Contributions/special events                   10,001          28,000           28,000    0.0%
Credit card and bank expenses                       -             535              535    0.0%
Insurance                                       9,795          10,000           10,000    0.0%
Workers comp insurance                              -               -                -    0.0%
Postage                                           974               -                -    0.0%
Professional and technical                     48,692         105,000          105,000    0.0%
UFA emergency services                         10,085          10,000           10,000    0.0%
SL (Client) county support services            10,177          37,500           37,500    0.0%
Justice court remediation                           -           2,700            2,700    0.0%
Rent                                            1,698           2,000            2,000    0.0%
Non classified expenses                             4           5,000            5,000    0.0%
Totals:                                 $     165,493   $     349,551   $      349,551    0.0%
                                    Administration
                                White City Township
                                      FY 2023
            Fund: General
    Department: Administration                         Final       Tentative
  Account Name: Wages                   Actual        Budget        Budget          %
Account Number:                        FY 2021       FY 2022       FY 2023         Diff.
     Line Item Description Detail
  Council compensation                    20,414        12,000          12,000       0.0%
  Council compensation                                  12,000          12,000       0.0%
  Council compensation- Mayor                           18,000          18,000       0.0%
  Council compensation                                  12,000          12,000       0.0%
  Council compensation                                  12,000          12,000       0.0%
  Miscellaneous                                          5,400           5,400       0.0%




                             Totals:      20,414        71,400          71,400       0.0%
              Additions
                                                 -             -               -     0.0%




                             Totals:             -             -               -     0.0%
               Deletions
                                                 -             -               -     0.0%




                            Totals:              -             -               -     0.0%
     Net Change in Budget Requests:              -             -               -     0.0%
              Proposed New Budget:        20,414        71,400          71,400       0.0%
                                     Administration
                              White City Township
                                    FY 2023
            Fund: General
     Department: Administration                         Final       Tentative
  Account Name: Employee benefits        Actual        Budget        Budget          %
Account Number:                         FY 2021       FY 2022       FY 2023         Diff.
      Line Item Description Detail
  Fica                                      3,436         4,427           4,427       0.0%
  Medicare                                                1,035           1,035       0.0%
  Miscellaneous                                             434             434       0.0%




                            Totals:         3,436         5,896           5,896       0.0%
              Additions
                                                  -             -               -     0.0%




                            Totals:               -             -               -     0.0%
              Deletions
                                                  -             -               -     0.0%




                            Totals:               -             -               -     0.0%
     Net Change in Budget Requests:               -             -               -     0.0%
              Proposed New Budget:          3,436         5,896           5,896       0.0%
                                   Administration
                               White City Township
                                     FY 2023
            Fund: General
    Department: Administration                           Final       Tentative
  Account Name: Subscriptions, membershipsActual        Budget        Budget          %
Account Number:                         FY 2021        FY 2022       FY 2023         Diff.
     Line Item Description Detail
  AICP - Planning Commisson                      513        570              570       0.0%
  AICP - Council                                            325              325       0.0%
  Miscellaneous                                             175              175       0.0%




                             Totals:            513        1,070           1,070       0.0%
              Additions
                                                   -             -               -     0.0%




                             Totals:               -             -               -     0.0%
              Deletions
                                                   -             -               -     0.0%




                            Totals:                -             -               -     0.0%
     Net Change in Budget Requests:                -             -               -     0.0%
              Proposed New Budget:              513        1,070           1,070       0.0%
                                    Administration
                                White City Township
                                      FY 2023
           Fund: General
    Department: Administration                             Final       Tentative
  Account Name: Printing/publications/advertising
                                           Actual         Budget        Budget          %
Account Number:                           FY 2021        FY 2022       FY 2023         Diff.
     Line Item Description Detail
  Miscellaneous                                  2,754       1,000           1,000       0.0%




                              Totals:           2,754        1,000           1,000       0.0%
               Additions
                                                     -             -               -     0.0%




                              Totals:                -             -               -     0.0%
               Deletions
                                                     -             -               -     0.0%




                             Totals:                 -             -               -     0.0%
      Net Change in Budget Requests:                 -             -               -     0.0%
               Proposed New Budget:             2,754        1,000           1,000       0.0%
                                    Administration
                                White City Township
                                      FY 2023
           Fund: General
    Department: Administration                            Final       Tentative
  Account Name: Office expense and suppliesActual        Budget        Budget          %
Account Number:                          FY 2021        FY 2022       FY 2023         Diff.
     Line Item Description Detail
  Supplies                                        622       1,070           1,070       0.0%




                             Totals:             622        1,070           1,070       0.0%
              Additions
                                                    -             -               -     0.0%




                             Totals:                -             -               -     0.0%
               Deletions
                                                    -             -               -     0.0%




                            Totals:                 -             -               -     0.0%
     Net Change in Budget Requests:                 -             -               -     0.0%
              Proposed New Budget:               622        1,070           1,070       0.0%
                                     Administration
                                 White City Township
                                       FY 2023
            Fund: General
     Department: Administration                         Final       Tentative
  Account Name: Attorney-civil           Actual        Budget        Budget          %
Account Number:                         FY 2021       FY 2022       FY 2023         Diff.
      Line Item Description Detail
  Attorney-civil                           39,138        60,000          60,000       0.0%




                              Totals:      39,138        60,000          60,000       0.0%
               Additions
                                                  -             -               -     0.0%




                              Totals:             -             -               -     0.0%
               Deletions
                                                  -             -               -     0.0%




                             Totals:              -             -               -     0.0%
      Net Change in Budget Requests:              -             -               -     0.0%
               Proposed New Budget:        39,138        60,000          60,000       0.0%
                                     Administration
                               White City Township
                                     FY 2023
            Fund: General
     Department: Administration                         Final       Tentative
  Account Name: Attorney-land use        Actual        Budget        Budget          %
Account Number:                         FY 2021       FY 2022       FY 2023         Diff.
      Line Item Description Detail
  Attorney land use                         2,548               -               -     0.0%




                            Totals:         2,548               -               -     0.0%
              Additions
                                                  -             -               -     0.0%


                            Totals:               -             -               -     0.0%
              Deletions
                                                  -             -               -     0.0%




                            Totals:               -             -               -     0.0%
     Net Change in Budget Requests:               -             -               -     0.0%
              Proposed New Budget:          2,548               -               -     0.0%
                                  Administration
                              White City Township
                                    FY 2023
           Fund: General
    Department: Administration                          Final       Tentative
  Account Name: Training and seminars    Actual        Budget        Budget          %
Account Number:                         FY 2021       FY 2022       FY 2023         Diff.
     Line Item Description Detail
  Miscellaneous                               295         1,070           1,070       0.0%




                            Totals:           295         1,070           1,070       0.0%
             Additions
                                                  -             -               -     0.0%




                            Totals:               -             -               -     0.0%
              Deletions
                                                  -             -               -     0.0%




                            Totals:               -             -               -     0.0%
     Net Change in Budget Requests:               -             -               -     0.0%
              Proposed New Budget:            295         1,070           1,070       0.0%
                                  Administration
                              White City Township
                                    FY 2023
           Fund: General
    Department: Administration                        Final       Tentative
  Account Name: Web page development/maintenance
                                       Actual        Budget        Budget          %
Account Number:                       FY 2021       FY 2022       FY 2023         Diff.
     Line Item Description Detail
  Miscellaneous                             2,800       3,210           3,210       0.0%




                            Totals:         2,800       3,210           3,210       0.0%
             Additions
                                                -             -               -     0.0%




                            Totals:             -             -               -     0.0%
             Deletions
                                                -             -               -     0.0%




                            Totals:             -             -               -     0.0%
     Net Change in Budget Requests:             -             -               -     0.0%
             Proposed New Budget:           2,800       3,210           3,210       0.0%
                                  Administration
                              White City Township
                                    FY 2023
           Fund: General
    Department: Administration                        Final       Tentative
  Account Name: Software/streaming     Actual        Budget        Budget          %
Account Number:                       FY 2021       FY 2022       FY 2023         Diff.
     Line Item Description Detail
                                            506               -               -     0.0%




                            Totals:         506               -               -     0.0%
             Additions
                                                -             -               -     0.0%




                            Totals:             -             -               -     0.0%
             Deletions
                                                -             -               -     0.0%




                            Totals:             -             -               -     0.0%
     Net Change in Budget Requests:             -             -               -     0.0%
             Proposed New Budget:           506               -               -     0.0%
                                   Administration
                               White City Township
                                     FY 2023
            Fund: General
    Department: Administration                            Final       Tentative
  Account Name: Payroll processing fees    Actual        Budget        Budget          %
Account Number:                           FY 2021       FY 2022       FY 2023         Diff.
      Line Item Description Detail
  Outside payroll processor                   1,041          900              900       0.0%




                             Totals:          1,041          900              900       0.0%
              Additions
                                                    -             -               -     0.0%




                             Totals:                -             -               -     0.0%
              Deletions
                                                    -             -               -     0.0%




                            Totals:                 -             -               -     0.0%
     Net Change in Budget Requests:                 -             -               -     0.0%
              Proposed New Budget:            1,041          900              900       0.0%
                                    Administration
                               White City Township
                                     FY 2023
           Fund: General
    Department: Administration                         Final       Tentative
  Account Name: Communications          Actual        Budget        Budget          %
Account Number:                        FY 2021       FY 2022       FY 2023         Diff.
     Line Item Description Detail
  Newsletter                                     -       3,200           3,200       0.0%




                            Totals:              -       3,200           3,200       0.0%
              Additions
                                                 -             -               -     0.0%




                            Totals:              -             -               -     0.0%
              Deletions
                                                 -             -               -     0.0%




                            Totals:              -             -               -     0.0%
     Net Change in Budget Requests:              -             -               -     0.0%
              Proposed New Budget:               -       3,200           3,200       0.0%
                                   Administration
                               White City Township
                                     FY 2023
            Fund: General
    Department: Administration                           Final       Tentative
  Account Name: Contributions/special events
                                           Actual       Budget        Budget          %
Account Number:                          FY 2021       FY 2022       FY 2023         Diff.
      Line Item Description Detail
  WCTCC Administrative                             1       8,000           8,000       0.0%
  Southeast Township Days - Event                         20,000          20,000       0.0%
                                              10,000




                             Totals:          10,001      28,000          28,000       0.0%
              Additions
                                                   -             -               -     0.0%




                             Totals:               -             -               -     0.0%
              Deletions
                                                   -             -               -     0.0%




                            Totals:                -             -               -     0.0%
     Net Change in Budget Requests:                -             -               -     0.0%
              Proposed New Budget:            10,001      28,000          28,000       0.0%
                                  Administration
                              White City Township
                                    FY 2023
           Fund: General
    Department: Administration                         Final       Tentative
  Account Name: Credit card and bank expenses
                                          Actual      Budget        Budget          %
Account Number:                          FY 2021     FY 2022       FY 2023         Diff.
     Line Item Description Detail
  Bank charges                                   -        535              535       0.0%




                            Totals:              -        535              535       0.0%
             Additions
                                                 -             -               -     0.0%




                            Totals:              -             -               -     0.0%
              Deletions
                                                 -             -               -     0.0%




                            Totals:              -             -               -     0.0%
     Net Change in Budget Requests:              -             -               -     0.0%
             Proposed New Budget:                -        535              535       0.0%
                                    Administration
                                White City Township
                                      FY 2023
            Fund: General
    Department: Administration                         Final       Tentative
  Account Name: Insurance               Actual        Budget        Budget          %
Account Number:                        FY 2021       FY 2022       FY 2023         Diff.
     Line Item Description Detail
  General liability                        9,303         8,619           8,619       0.0%
  Workers compensation                       492           905             905       0.0%
  Annual adjustment                                        476             476       0.0%




                             Totals:       9,795        10,000          10,000       0.0%
              Additions
                                                 -             -               -     0.0%




                             Totals:             -             -               -     0.0%
               Deletions
                                                 -             -               -     0.0%




                            Totals:              -             -               -     0.0%
     Net Change in Budget Requests:              -             -               -     0.0%
              Proposed New Budget:         9,795        10,000          10,000       0.0%
                                  Administration
                              White City Township
                                    FY 2023
           Fund: General
    Department: Administration                       Final       Tentative
  Account Name: Workers comp insurance Actual       Budget        Budget            %
Account Number: 10-4200-740            FY 2021     FY 2022       FY 2023           Diff.
     Line Item Description Detail
  Workers compensation insurance               -                                 ########




                            Totals:            -             -               -       0.0%
             Additions
                                               -             -               -       0.0%




                            Totals:            -             -               -       0.0%
             Deletions
                                               -             -               -       0.0%




                            Totals:            -             -               -       0.0%
     Net Change in Budget Requests:            -             -               -       0.0%
             Proposed New Budget:              -             -               -       0.0%
                                    Administration
                                White City Township
                                      FY 2023
           Fund: General
    Department: Administration                         Final       Tentative
  Account Name: Postage                 Actual        Budget        Budget            %
Account Number:                        FY 2021       FY 2022       FY 2023           Diff.
     Line Item Description Detail
                                             974                                   ########




                             Totals:         974               -               -       0.0%
              Additions
                                                 -             -               -       0.0%




                             Totals:             -             -               -       0.0%
               Deletions
                                                 -             -               -       0.0%




                            Totals:              -             -               -       0.0%
     Net Change in Budget Requests:              -             -               -       0.0%
              Proposed New Budget:           974               -               -       0.0%
                                   Administration
                               White City Township
                                     FY 2023
             Fund: General
     Department: Administration                          Final       Tentative
  Account Name: Professional and technical Actual       Budget        Budget          %
Account Number:                           FY 2021      FY 2022       FY 2023         Diff.
      Line Item Description Detail
  Township administrator                      48,692      44,000          44,000       0.0%
  Lobbyists                                                7,500           7,500       0.0%
  Financial                                                9,000           9,000       0.0%
  UFA                                                      9,000           9,000       0.0%
  Other miscellaneous                                     25,900          25,900       0.0%
  Public relations firm                                    9,600           9,600       0.0%




                             Totals:          48,692     105,000        105,000        0.0%
              Additions
                                                   -             -               -     0.0%




                             Totals:               -             -               -     0.0%
              Deletions
                                                   -             -               -     0.0%




                            Totals:                -             -               -     0.0%
     Net Change in Budget Requests:                -             -               -     0.0%
              Proposed New Budget:            48,692     105,000        105,000        0.0%
                                  Administration
                              White City Township
                                    FY 2023
           Fund: General
    Department: Administration                       Final       Tentative
  Account Name: UFA emergency services Actual       Budget        Budget          %
Account Number:                       FY 2021      FY 2022       FY 2023         Diff.
     Line Item Description Detail
  UFA emergency services                  10,085      10,000          10,000       0.0%




                            Totals:       10,085      10,000          10,000       0.0%
             Additions
                                               -             -               -     0.0%




                            Totals:            -             -               -     0.0%
             Deletions
                                               -             -               -     0.0%




                            Totals:            -             -               -     0.0%
     Net Change in Budget Requests:            -             -               -     0.0%
             Proposed New Budget:         10,085      10,000          10,000       0.0%
                                    Administration
                                White City Township
                                      FY 2023
            Fund: General
     Department: Administration                           Final       Tentative
  Account Name: SL (Client) county support Actual
                                           services      Budget        Budget          %
Account Number:                          FY 2021        FY 2022       FY 2023         Diff.
      Line Item Description Detail
  SLCO clerk                                   10,177      30,000          30,000       0.0%
  SLCO surveyour                                            5,000           5,000       0.0%
  Elections                                                 2,500           2,500       0.0%




                             Totals:          10,177       37,500          37,500       0.0%
              Additions
                                                    -             -               -     0.0%




                             Totals:                -             -               -     0.0%
               Deletions
                                                    -             -               -     0.0%




                            Totals:                 -             -               -     0.0%
     Net Change in Budget Requests:                 -             -               -     0.0%
              Proposed New Budget:            10,177       37,500          37,500       0.0%
                                  Administration
                              White City Township
                                    FY 2023
           Fund: General
    Department: Administration                         Final       Tentative
  Account Name: Justice court remediation Actual      Budget        Budget          %
Account Number:                          FY 2021     FY 2022       FY 2023         Diff.
     Line Item Description Detail
  Remediation                                    -       2,700           2,700       0.0%




                            Totals:              -       2,700           2,700       0.0%
             Additions
                                                 -             -               -     0.0%




                            Totals:              -             -               -     0.0%
              Deletions
                                                 -             -               -     0.0%




                            Totals:              -             -               -     0.0%
     Net Change in Budget Requests:              -             -               -     0.0%
             Proposed New Budget:                -       2,700           2,700       0.0%
                                    Administration
                                White City Township
                                      FY 2023
           Fund: General
    Department: Administration                         Final       Tentative
  Account Name: Rent                    Actual        Budget        Budget          %
Account Number:                        FY 2021       FY 2022       FY 2023         Diff.
     Line Item Description Detail
  Meeting space                            1,698         2,000           2,000       0.0%




                             Totals:       1,698         2,000           2,000       0.0%
              Additions
                                                 -             -               -     0.0%




                             Totals:             -             -               -     0.0%
               Deletions
                                                 -             -               -     0.0%




                            Totals:              -             -               -     0.0%
     Net Change in Budget Requests:              -             -               -     0.0%
              Proposed New Budget:         1,698         2,000           2,000       0.0%
                                  Administration
                              White City Township
                                    FY 2023
           Fund: General
    Department: Administration                        Final       Tentative
  Account Name: Non classified expenses Actual       Budget        Budget          %
Account Number:                         FY 2021     FY 2022       FY 2023         Diff.
     Line Item Description Detail
  Miscellanoues                                 4       5,000           5,000       0.0%
                            Totals:            4        5,000           5,000       0.0%
             Additions
                                                -             -               -     0.0%
                            Totals:             -             -               -     0.0%
             Deletions
                                                -             -               -     0.0%
                            Totals:             -             -               -     0.0%
     Net Change in Budget Requests:             -             -               -     0.0%
             Proposed New Budget:              4        5,000           5,000       0.0%
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District



                          T
      ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT
         AF
          For the Year Ended December 31, 2021
 R
D
D
 R
  AF
     T
                             Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                      TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                          December 31, 2021

                                                                                  Beginning
                                                                                   on page
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT                                                          1

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS                                                 5

BASIC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                                           15
 Government-wide Financial Statements:
  Statement of Net Position                                                          17
  Statement of Activities                                                            18
 Fund Financial Statements:
  Balance Sheet - Governmental Funds                                                 20
  Statement of Revenues, Expenditures, and Changes
    in Fund Balances - Governmental Funds                                            21
  Reconciliation of the Balance Sheet of Governmental
    Funds to the Statement of Net Position                                           22




                                                  T
  Reconciliation of the Statement of Revenues, Expenditures,
    and Changes in Fund Balances of Governmental Funds
    to the Statement of Activities                                                   23
                              AF
 Notes to Financial Statements                                                       24

REQUIRED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION                                                   43
 Notes to Required Supplementary Information                                         45
 Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures, and Changes
  in Fund Balances - Budget and Actual - General Fund                                46
          R
 Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures, and Changes
  in Fund Balances - Budget and Actual - Intergovermental Salt Lake County Fund      47
 Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures, and Changes
         D

  in Fund Balances - Budget and Actual - Capital Projects Fund                       48
 Schedule of the Proportionate Share of the Net Pension Liability                    49
 Schedule of Contributions                                                           50
                              Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                       TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                           December 31, 2021

                                                                              Beginning
                                                                               on page
OTHER REPORTS                                                                    51
 Independent Auditor's Report on Internal control over Financial
   Reporting and on Compliance and Other Matters Based on an
   Audit of Financial Statements Performed in Accordance with
   Government Auditing Standards                                                 53
 Independent Auditor's Report on Compliance and Report
   on Internal Control over Compliance as Requred by
   the State Compliance Audit Guide                                              55




                                                   T
                               AF
          R
         D
Board of Trustees
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District


Opinion

We have audited the accompanying financial statements of the governmental activities, the aggregate
discretely presented component units, and each major fund of Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services
District (the District) as of and for the year ended December 31, 2021, and the related notes to the
financial statements, which collectively comprise the District’s basic financial statements as listed in the
table of contents.

In our opinion, the basic financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the
respective financial position of the governmental activities, the aggregate discretely presented component
units, and each major fund of Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District as of December 31, 2021, and




                                                     T
the respective changes in financial position for the year then ended in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

Basis for Opinion
                                 AF
We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of
America (GAAS) and the standards applicable to financial audits contained in Government Auditing
Standards, issued by the Comptroller General of the United States. Our responsibilities under those
standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
section of our report. We are required to be independent of Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
           R
and to meet our other ethical responsibilities, in accordance with the relevant ethical requirements relating
to our audits. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to
provide a basis for our audit opinion.
          D

Responsibilities of Management for the Financial Statements

Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and for the
design, implementation, and maintenance of internal control relevant to the preparation and fair
presentation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or
error.

In preparing the financial statements, management is required to evaluate whether there are conditions or
events, considered in the aggregate, that raise substantial doubt about Greater Salt Lake Municipal
Services District’s ability to continue as a going concern for one year after the date that the financial
statements are issued.

Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that
includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not absolute assurance and
therefore is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with GAAS will always detect a
material misstatement when it exists. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from
fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. Misstatements are considered material
if there is a substantial likelihood that, individually or in the aggregate, they would influence the judgment
made by a reasonable user based on the financial statements.

In performing an audit in accordance with GAAS, we:

       Exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit.

       Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to
        fraud or error, and design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks. Such
        procedures include examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in
        the financial statements.

       Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit
        procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an
        opinion on the effectiveness of Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District’s internal control.




                                                     T
        Accordingly, no such opinion is expressed.

       Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of significant
                                 AF
        accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluate the overall presentation of the
        financial statements.

       Conclude whether, in our judgment, there are conditions or events, considered in the aggregate,
        that raise substantial doubt about Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District’s ability to
        continue as a going concern for a reasonable period of time.
          R
We are required to communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the
planned scope and timing of the audit, significant audit findings, and certain internal control-related
matters that we identified during the audit.
         D

Emphasis of Matter

As discussed in Note 4 to the basic financial statements, in 2021, the District restated beginning balances
of capital assets and changed the presentation of its component units from blended component units to
discretely presented component units. Our opinion is not modified with respect to this matter.

Other Matters

Required Supplementary Information

Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America require that the management’s
discussion and analysis, budgetary comparison information, the schedules of the District’s proportionate
share of the net pension liability (asset) – Utah Retirement Systems, the schedules of District
contributions – Utah Retirement Systems, and the related notes to the required supplementary information
be presented to supplement the basic financial statements. Such information, although not a part of the
basic financial statements, is required by the Governmental Accounting Standards Board who considers it
to be an essential part of financial reporting for placing the basic financial statements in an appropriate
operational, economic, or historical context. We have applied certain limited procedures to the required
supplementary information in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States
of America, which consisted of inquiries of management about the methods of preparing the information


                                                      2
and comparing the information for consistency with management’s responses to our inquiries, the basic
financial statements, and other knowledge we obtained during our audit of the basic financial statements.
We do not express an opinion or provide any assurance on the required supplementary information
because the limited procedures do not provide us with sufficient evidence to express an opinion or
provide any assurance.

Other Reporting Required by Government Auditing Standards

In accordance with Government Auditing Standards, we have also issued our report dated May 31, 2022,
on our consideration of the District’s internal control over financial reporting and on our tests of its
compliance with certain provisions of laws, regulations, contracts, and grant agreements and other
matters. The purpose of that report is solely to describe the scope of our testing of internal control over
financial reporting and compliance and the results of that testing, and not to provide an opinion on the
effectiveness of the District’s internal control over financial reporting or on compliance. That report is an
integral part of an audit performed in accordance with Government Auditing Standards in considering the
District’s internal control over financial reporting and compliance.


Orem, Utah




                                                     T
May 31, 2022
                                AF
          R
         D




                                                      3
                 T
 This page intentionally left blank.
 AF
 R
D




                 4
                 T
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
    AF
 R
D




                 5
                 T
 This page intentionally left blank.
 AF
 R
D




                 6
                               Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                               NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                            December 31, 2021

As management of the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (the District), we offer readers of the
District's financial statements this narrative overview and analysis of financial activities of the District for
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021.

The District is a unique governmental organization created by the Utah State Legislature to provide
municipal type services, such as capital improvements, road maintenance, planning and development
services, permitting and licensing and administrative services, to metro townships, towns and
unincorporated Salt Lake County who are unable to effectively provide these services to their respective
communities. The District is funded by sales tax, class B&C road funds, SB 136 sales tax, and service
fees that are paid to the respective members of the District to cover the cost of the municipal type
services. The legislative body of each member is responsible for their respective administrative budgets.
The District then funds the approved budgets of each member. Each Member’s fund balance grows when
they underspend their administrative budget. They may use these funds for special purposes. The Board
of Trustees of the District decides on the capital projects and large road maintenance projects to be funded
each year by the District.

FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS




                                                      T
Total assets and deferred outflows of resources of the District exceeded liabilities and deferred inflows of
resources by $36.5 million. Of this amount, $36.5 million (unrestricted net position) may be used to meet
on the government wide ongoing obligations.
                                 AF
The General Fund’s total fund balance increased $5.8 million or 26 percent.

Revenues

   •   The District and the members are dependent on Sales Tax, SB 136 Sales Tax and Class B&C road
       funds. Total revenue from all sources was $33.1 million, an increase of $0.8 million over the prior
          R
       year.

   •   For the year, expenses were $26.4 million, an increase of $0.8 million over the prior year.
         D

Sales Tax receipts for 2021 increased by 15.9% over 2020 receipts. Ten of the twelve (12) months
outperformed the corresponding months of the prior year. By comparison, FY2020 receipts increased
4.8% over FY 2019 receipts.

County Highway & Public Transit – Local Portion receipts increased for 2021 by 17.6% over 2020
receipts. All twelve (12) months outperformed the corresponding months of the prior year. This was the
first full year comparison since these revenues began in the second half of 2019.

Class B&C Road Funds receipts for 2021 decreased by 2.1% compared to 2020 receipts. By comparison,
2020 receipts decreased by 1.6% compared to 2019 receipts. The 2020 decrease was attributable to the
COVID pandemic, while the FY2021 decrease was attributable to the impact of Senate Bill (SB) 150
from the 2020 legislative session. The Class B allocation to the Unincorporated County was expected to
be reduced by about 50% starting July 1, 2021 by way of a formula change that reduced population
component in the calculation from 14% to 7%. Through June 30 of 2021, the District experienced a 20%
increase in Class B&C road fund receipts compared to the first six months of 2020.

When comparing 2022 over 2021, the first half of 2021 still included the pre-SB150 14% formula
component.



                                                       7
                              Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                              NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                           December 31, 2021

While business license fee receipts were fairly stable, building permit fee receipts were up District-wide
65.3% over FY 2020 receipts. By comparison, FY 2020 receipts were up 53.0% over FY2019 receipts.
The primary jurisdictions contributing to this FY 2021 increase over FY2020 receipts were Kearns and
Magna—but primarily Magna due to extensive new home building in that metro township.

The five metro townships each received an additional tranche of CARES funds (CARES2) from Salt Lake
County in the spring of 2021. The County indicated that they “used their presumption” and transferred
these funds from the County’s funds through an interlocal agreement. This CARES2 tranche, which
totaled $3,252,821 among the five metro townships, can be used by each jurisdiction on any legal
government purpose. There is now expiration on the use of these funds. About $423,000 of these funds
were spent in 2021.

The five metro townships and the Town of Brighton received their first tranche of ARPA funds in 2021,
totaling $4,245,591 among all six entities. Based on the US Treasury’s Final Rule, it is expected that the
revenue loss use category with “standard allowance” selection will allow the jurisdictions to use their
ARPA funds on any legal government purpose between now and December 31, 2024. None of these
funds were spent in 2021.




                                                    T
The following charts depict those revenue sources for the governmental activities discussed above:
                                AF
          R
         D




                                                     8
                               Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                               NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                            December 31, 2021

Expenses

The General Fund saw most contracted services come in at or under budget. Public Works (PW)
Operations and PW Engineering were significantly under budget for 2021 due to lack of snow removal
and other maintenance. PW Engineering has numerous projects in the pipeline, so some of this work was
carried over into 2022, and likely into 2023 as well. Also, contracted engineering gets charged to the
project in the Capital Projects Fund, therefore PW Engineering in the General Fund can be underspent.

The Administration and Planning and Development actuals were within budgets. Each of the metro
townships and the Town of Brighton underspent their administrative budgets for the year.

The following charts depict those expenditures for the governmental activities discussed above:




                                                     T
                                AF
            R
           D


BASIC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

This discussion and analysis is intended to serve as an introduction to the basic financial statements of the
District. The basic financial statements comprise three components: (1) government-wide financial
statements, (2) fund financial statements, and (3) notes to the financial statements.

Beginning in 2021, the District changed the presentation of its component units from blended component
units to discretely presented component units. The purpose of the change was to clearly reflect the
relationship between the members of the District and the government wide financial statements of the
District.




                                                      9
                               Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                               NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                            December 31, 2021


Government-wide financial statements. The government-wide financial statements are designed to
provide readers with a broad overview of the District's finances, in a manner similar to a private-sector
business.

The statement of net position presents information on all of the District's assets, deferred outflows,
liabilities, and deferred inflows, with the difference between them reported as net position. Over time,
increases or decreases in net position may serve as a useful indicator of whether the financial position of
the District is improving or deteriorating.

The statement of activities presents information showing how the District's net position changed during
the fiscal year reported. All changes in net position are reported as soon as the underlying event giving
rise to the change occurs, regardless of the timing of related cash flows. Thus revenues and expenses are
reported in this statement for some items that will only result in cash flows in future fiscal periods.

Both of the government-wide financial statements distinguish functions of the District that are principally
supported by taxes and intergovernmental revenues (governmental activities) from other functions that are
intended to recover all or a significant portion of their costs through user fees and charges (business-type




                                                     T
activities). The statement of activities is presented on two pages. The first page reports the extent to which
each function or program is self-supporting through fees and intergovernmental aid. The second page
identifies the general revenues of the District available to cover any remaining costs of the functions or
programs.
                                 AF
Fund financial statements. A fund is a grouping of related accounts that is used to maintain control over
resources that have been segregated for specific activities or objectives. The District also uses fund
accounting to ensure and demonstrate compliance with finance-related legal requirements. All of the
funds of the District are categorized as governmental funds.
          R
These funds are used to account for the same functions reported as governmental activities in the
government-wide financial statements. Governmental fund financial statements focus on near-term
inflows and outflows of spendable resources, as well as on balances of spendable resources available at
the end of the fiscal year.
         D


Because the focus of governmental funds is narrower than that of the government-wide financial
statements, it is useful to compare the information presented for government funds with similar
information presented for governmental activities in the government-wide financial statements. By doing
so, readers may better understand the long-term impact of the government's near-term financing
decisions. Both the government fund balance sheet and the government fund statement of the revenues,
expenditures, and changes in fund balances provide reconciliation to facilitate this comparison between
governmental funds and governmental activities.

The District maintains three major governmental funds, the General Fund, Intergovermental Salt Lake
County Fund, and Capital Projects Fund.

The District adopts an annual appropriated budget for all its funds. A budgetary comparison schedule has
been provided to demonstrate legal compliance with the adopted budget for the general fund.

The basic governmental fund financial statements can be found later in this report; see Table of Contents.




                                                     10
                               Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                               NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                            December 31, 2021


Notes to the financial statements. The notes provide additional information that is essential to a full
understanding of the data provided in the government-wide and fund financial statements. The notes to
the financial statements are reported later in this report; see Table of Contents.

Other information. In addition to the basic financial statements and accompanying notes, this report also
presents certain required supplementary information concerning the District.

FINANCIAL ANALYSIS

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District's Net Position

                                                               Governmental
                                                                 Activities
                                                         Current            Previous
                                                          Year                Year            Change
  Current and other assets                             $  40,811,983         33,356,772         7,455,211
  Deferred outflows of resources                           1,238,417            467,944           770,473




                                                     T
   Total assets and deferred outlfows                    42,050,400         33,824,716         8,225,684

  Compensated absences                                        251,796           237,719            14,077
                                 AF
  Other liabilities                                         4,511,627         3,661,398           850,229
  Deferred inflows of resources                               773,893           118,415           655,478
   Total liabilities and deferred inflows                  5,537,316         4,017,532         1,519,784

  Net position:
   Restricted                                                      -             79,911           (79,911)
   Unrestricted                                           36,513,084         29,727,273         6,785,811
          R
  Total net position                                   $ 36,513,084         29,807,185         6,705,899

As noted earlier, net position may serve over time as a useful indicator of financial position. Total assets
and deferred outflows of resources exceeded total liabilities and deferred inflow of resources at the close
         D

of the year $36.5 million, an increase of $6.7 million from the previous year. This change is equivalent to
the net income for the year, in private sector terms.

Total unrestricted net position at the end of the year is $36.5 million , which represents an increase of $6.7
million from the previous year. Unrestricted net position are those resources available to finance day-to-
day operations without constraints established by debt covenants, enabling legislation, or other legal
requirements.




                                                     11
                              Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                              NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                           December 31, 2021

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District's Change in Net Position

                                                              Governmental
                                                                 Activities
                                                         Current            Previous
                                                          Year                Year        Change
Program revenues:
 Charges for services                               $        548,795         1,102,597        (553,802)
 Operating grants and contributions                       27,472,953        21,272,805       6,200,148
 Capital grants and contributions                                  -         5,429,830      (5,429,830)
General revenues:
 Property taxes                                                5,527             4,238          1,289
 Sales tax                                                 4,895,049         4,485,503        409,546
 Other revenues                                              136,457             2,076        134,381
   Total revenues                                        33,058,781        32,297,049        761,732

Expenses:




                                                    T
 Municipal services                                       26,352,881        25,513,353        839,528
   Total expenses                                        26,352,881        25,513,353        839,528

Change in net position                              $     6,705,899         6,783,696         (77,797)
                                AF
For the District as a whole, total revenues increased by $761,732 compared to the previous year, while
total expenses increased by $839,528. The total net change of $6,705,899 is, in private sector terms, the
net income for the year, which is $77,797 less than the previous year's net change.

BALANCES AND TRANSACTIONS OF INDIVIDUAL FUNDS
          R
Some of the more significant changes in fund balances, and any restrictions on those amounts, is
described below:
         D

General Fund

The fund balance of $22.1 million reflects an increase of $5.8 million from the previous year.

Total revenues of $21.5 million increased by $21.1 million compared to the previous year. This increase
is primarily due to an increase in contributions from other governments during the year.

Total expenditures of $21.1 million decreased by $3.5 million. This decrease is primarily due to a
decrease in interagency contracts during the year.




                                                    12
                              Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                              NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                           December 31, 2021

GENERAL FUND BUDGETARY HIGHLIGHTS

Revenues for the current year, exclusive of transfers and fund balance appropriations, were originally
budgeted in the amount of $27.0 million. This amount was amended in the final budget to $27.1 million.
Actual revenues, excluding transfers in, amounted to $21.5 million.

Expenditures for the current year, excluding transfers, were originally budgeted in the amount of $27.7
million. This amount was amended in the final budget to $28.0 million. Actual expenditures, excluding
transfers out, amounted to $21.1 million.

Transfers in for the year were originally budgeted in the amount of $10.2 million, which was equal to the
final budget. Actual transfers in were made in the amount of $9.6 million. Transfers out for the year were
originally budgeted in the amount of $13.9 million, which was equal to the final budget. Actual transfers
out were made in the amount of $4.2 million.

CAPITAL ASSETS AND DEBT ADMINISTRATION

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District's Capital Assets (net of depreciation)




                                                    T
The District does not currently own capital assets directly. The discretely presented component units
(townships) own and account for capital assets.
                                AF
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District's Long-Term Liabilities

                                                         Current         Previous
                                                          Year             Year            Change
Governmental activities:
 Compensated absences                               $       251,796          237,719            14,077
          R
 Net pension liability                                      108,766          223,927          (115,161)
   Total governmental                               $      360,562          461,646          (101,084)

Additional information regarding the long-term liabilities may be found in the notes to financial
         D

statements.

ECONOMIC FACTORS AND NEXT YEAR'S BUDGETS AND RATES

No significant economic changes that would affect the District are expected for the next year. Budgets
have been set on essentially the same factors as the current year being reported.

REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION

The financial report is designed to provide a general overview of Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services
District’s finances for all those with an interest in the government’s finances. Questions concerning any of
the information provided in this report or requests for additional financial information should be
addressed to Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District, Records Officer, N3-500 2001 South State
Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84190.




                                                    13
                 T
 This page intentionally left blank.
 AF
 R
D




                 14
              T
 BASIC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 AF
 R
D




              15
                 T
 This page intentionally left blank.
 AF
 R
D




                 16
                                Greater Salt Lake Muncipal Services District
                                   STATEMENT OF NET POSITION
                                             December 31, 2021

                                                                                   Primary
                                                                                 Government
                                                                                 Governmental       Component
                                                                                  Activities          Units
ASSETS AND DEFERRED OUTFLOWS OF RESOURCES
 Assets:
  Current assets:
    Cash and cash equivalents                                                  $     37,269,084          345,194
    Accounts receivable, net                                                              1,056                -
    Due from other governments                                                        3,446,780        3,527,394
    Prepaids                                                                                  -            8,802
  Total current assets                                                               40,716,920        3,881,389

  Non-current assets:
    Restricted cash and cash equivalents                                                 95,063        6,761,353
    Capital assets:
      Not being depreciated                                                                   -      110,325,786
      Net of accumulated depreciation                                                         -        8,707,418
  Total non-current assets                                                               95,063      125,794,557




                                                         T
 Total assets                                                                        40,811,983      129,675,947

 Deferred outflows of resources - pensions                                            1,238,417                -
Total assets and deferred outflows of resources                                $     42,050,400      129,675,947
                                    AF
LIABILITIES AND DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES
 Liabilities:
   Current liabilities:
    Accounts payable                                                           $      4,230,365          100,153
    Accrued liabilities                                                                  77,433                -
    Unearned revenue                                                                          -        6,971,122
          R
    Performance bonds                                                                    95,063        1,358,397
   Total current liabilities                                                          4,402,861        8,429,671

  Long-term liabilities:
         D

    Compensated absences                                                                251,796                -
    Net pension liability                                                               108,766                -
  Total long-term liabilities                                                           360,562                -
 Total liabilities                                                                    4,763,423        8,429,671

 Deferred inflows of resources - pensions                                               773,893                -
Total liabilities and deferred inflows of resources                                   5,537,316        8,429,671

NET POSITION
 Net investment in capital assets                                                             -      119,033,205
 Unrestricted                                                                        36,513,084        2,213,071
Total net position                                                                   36,513,084      121,246,275

Total liabilities, deferred inflows of resources, and net position             $     42,050,400      129,675,947




                    The notes to the financial statements are an integral part of this statement.
                                                        17
                                 Greater Salt Lake Muncipal Services District
                                     STATEMENT OF ACTIVITIES
                                   For the Year Ended December 31, 2021


                                                                                                            Net
                                                                                                        (Expense)
                                                       Charges        Operating         Capital          Revenue
                                                         for          Grants and       Grants and        (To Next
FUNCTIONS/PROGRAMS:                  Expenses          Services      Contributions    Contributions        Page)

Primary government:

 Governmental activities:
  Municipal services              $ 26,352,881            548,795      27,472,953                   -    1,668,866

 Total governmental activities       26,352,881           548,795      27,472,953                   -    1,668,866

Total primary government          $ 26,352,881            548,795      27,472,953                   -    1,668,866


Component units                   $ 23,799,059          4,193,663        5,604,540                  -   (14,000,856)




                                                         T
(continued on next page)          AF
          R
         D




                    The notes to the financial statements are an integral part of this statement.
                                                        18
                                 Greater Salt Lake Muncipal Services District
                                STATEMENT OF ACTIVITIES (continued)
                                   For the Year Ended December 31, 2021

                                                                                    Primary
                                                                                  Government
                                                                                  Governmental       Component
                                                                                   Activities          Units
CHANGES IN NET POSITION:

Net (expense) revenue
 (from previous page)                                                            $     1,668,866      (14,000,856)

General revenues:
 Property taxes                                                                            5,527           9,371
 Sales tax                                                                             4,895,049      14,140,829
 Unrestricted investment earnings                                                        102,026          17,573
 Miscellaneous                                                                            34,432          14,518
Total general revenues                                                                 5,037,033      14,182,290

Change in net position                                                                 6,705,899         181,434

Net position - beginning, as restated                                                 29,807,185     121,064,841




                                                          T
Net position - ending                                                            $    36,513,084     121,246,275
                                   AF
          R
         D




                     The notes to the financial statements are an integral part of this statement.
                                                         19
                                Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                              BALANCE SHEET - GOVERNMENTAL FUNDS
                                             December 31, 2021




                                                                       Intergovernmental       Capital        Total
                                                          General           Salt Lake          Projects    Governmental
                                                           Fund              County             Fund          Funds
ASSETS
 Cash and cash equivalents                            $ 21,169,239                   -        16,099,845     37,269,084
 Accounts receivable                                         1,056                   -                 -          1,056
 Due from other governments                                260,850           3,185,931                 -      3,446,780
 Due from other funds                                    3,131,575                   -                 -      3,131,575
 Restricted cash and cash equivalents                            -              95,063                 -         95,063

TOTAL ASSETS                                          $ 24,562,719           3,280,994        16,099,845     43,943,558

LIABILITIES
 Accounts payable                                     $    2,426,035                 -         1,804,330      4,230,365
 Accrued liabilities                                          77,433                 -                 -         77,433
 Performance bonds                                                 -            95,063                 -         95,063




                                                            T
 Due to other funds                                                -         3,131,575                 -      3,131,575

TOTAL LIABILTIES                                           2,503,467         3,226,638         1,804,330      7,534,436
                                     AF
FUND BALANCES:
 Assigned                                                          -             54,356       14,295,515     14,349,871
 Unassigned                                               22,059,251                  -                -     22,059,251

TOTAL FUND BALANCES                                       22,059,251             54,356       14,295,515     36,409,122

TOTAL LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCES $ 24,562,719                             3,280,994        16,099,845     43,943,558
             R
            D




                       The notes to the financial statements are an integral part of this statement.
                                                           20
                               Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                          STATEMENT OF REVENUES, EXPENDITURES AND
                       CHANGES IN FUND BALANCES - GOVERNMENTAL FUNDS
                                 For the Year Ended December 31, 2021

                                                                         Intergovernmental       Capital          Total
                                                          General             Salt Lake          Projects      Governmental
                                                           Fund                County             Fund            Funds
REVENUES:
 Property taxes                                       $            -               5,527                  -           5,527
 Sales taxes                                                       -           4,895,049                  -       4,895,049
 License and permits                                               -             343,414                  -         343,414
 Intergovernmental revenues                                   81,052           4,222,309          1,774,300       6,077,661
 Charges for services                                              -             156,221                  -         156,221
 Fines and forfeitures                                             -              49,159                  -          49,159
 Interest                                                     46,581               4,612             50,833         102,026
 Miscellaneous revenue                                        31,865                  85              2,482          34,432
 Contributions from other governments                     21,395,292                   -                  -      21,395,292
Total revenues                                            21,554,790           9,676,376          1,827,615      33,058,781

EXPENDITURES:
 Salaries, wages and benefits                              4,590,646                   -                  -       4,590,646




                                                              T
 Operation equipment and supplies                            388,341             315,296          4,925,856       5,629,493
 Professional services                                       743,787             151,830                  -         895,617
 Interagency contracts                                    13,132,224                   -                  -      13,132,224
 Insurance                                                   144,457                   -                  -         144,457
                                       AF
 Rent                                                        169,632                   -                  -         169,632
 Other                                                         5,129                   -                  -           5,129
 Contributions to other governments                        2,001,762                   -                  -       2,001,762
Total expenditures                                        21,175,978             467,126          4,925,856      26,568,960

Excess (Deficiency) of Revenues over
 (Under) Expenditures                                        378,812           9,209,249         (3,098,240)      6,489,820
               R

Other Financing Sources and (Uses):
 Transfers in                                               9,649,112            459,000          3,800,000       13,908,112
 Transfers out                                             (4,259,000)        (9,649,112)                 -      (13,908,112)
              D

Total other financing sources and (uses)                    5,390,112         (9,190,112)         3,800,000                -

Net Change in Fund Balances                                5,768,924              19,137            701,760       6,489,820

Fund balances - beginning of year                         16,290,327              35,219         13,593,755      29,919,302

Fund balance - end of year                            $   22,059,251              54,356         14,295,515      36,409,122




                         The notes to the financial statements are an integral part of this statement.
                                                             21
                          Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
            RECONCILIATION OF THE BALANCE SHEET OF GOVERNMENTAL FUNDS
                         TO THE STATEMENT OF NET POSITION
                                       December 31, 2021




Total Fund Balance for Governmental Funds                                                               $   36,409,122

   Total net position reported for governmental activities in the statement
   is different because:

      Deferred outflows of resources - pensions, a consumption of net position that
      applies to future periods, is not shown in the funds statements.                                       1,238,417

      Long-term liabilities and deferred inflows of resources related to pensions are
      recorded in the government-wide statements but not in the fund statements.

          Compensated absences                                                                                (251,796)

          Net pension liability                                                                               (108,766)




                                                             T
          Deferred inflows of resources - pensions                                                            (773,893)

Total Net Position of Governmental Activities                                                           $   36,513,084
                                      AF
              R
             D




                        The notes to the financial statements are an integral part of this statement.
                                                            22
                         Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
            RECONCILIATION OF THE STATEMENT OF REVENUES, EXPENDITURES,
               AND CHANGES IN FUND BALANCES OF GOVERNMENTAL FUNDS
                         TO THE STATEMENT OF ACTIVITIES
                            For the Year Ended December 31, 2021



Net Change in Fund Balances - Total Governmental Funds                                                  $   6,489,820

   Amounts reported for governmental activities in the statement of
   activities are different because:

      The statement of activities show pension benefits and pension expenses
      as the costs are incurred, while in the funds statements the obligation is
      recognized when it matures or is paid.                                                                 230,156

      Compensated absences expenses reported in the statement of activities do
      not require the use of current financial resources and are not reported as
      expenditures in governmental funds.                                                                     (14,077)

Change in Net Position of Governmental Activities                                                       $   6,705,899




                                                             T
                                      AF
             R
            D




                        The notes to the financial statements are an integral part of this statement.
                                                            23
                               Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                               NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                            December 31, 2021

NOTE 1 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
1-A. Reporting entity
The Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District, Utah (District) was established under the governing
code of Utah Code Annotated Title 17B.
The District operates under a Board of Trustees-General Manager form of government and provides the
following broad range of services to its customers: roads and streets, financial administration, animal
control, planning and development, parks, capital improvements, administrative services operational
services, indigent legal and District Attorney prosecution services and planning. The Board of Trustees is
comprised of the mayor or a council member of each metro township and a Salt Lake County council
member representing the unincorporated Salt Lake County area.
The accompanying financial statements present the District and its component units, entities for which the
District is considered to be financially accountable.
The discretely presented component units of the District are as follows:




                                                     T
    •   Town of Brighton
    •   Copperton Metro Township and Cemetery
    •   Emigration Canyon Metro Township
    •   Pleasant Green Cemetery
                                AF
    •   Kearns Metro Township
    •   Magna Metro Township
    •   White City Metro Township
Each metro township is a discretely presented component unit because their resources exclusively benefit
the members of the District. The District’s budget dictates to a large extent the budget of each metro
township. The District appropriates funding to each metro township for administrative expenses. The
          R
governing board of each metro township approves their own individual budget. The General Fund is the
primary operating fund of the District. This fund is used to provide all services to the Members.

The Townships’ individual leaderships (Mayors and Council) are responsible for administering their own
         D

administrative budget and passing resolutions and ordinances unique to their entities.

Each entity will approve their individual budgets in their township Council meetings and accept the
financial statements for their individual townships.

Fiscal reporting for budgets, transparency reports, taxes etc. are done on the District level and also on the
individual township level.

1-B. Government-wide and fund financial statements
Government-wide Financial Statements
The government-wide financial statements, consisting of the statement of net position and the statement of
activities, report information on all the non-fiduciary activities of the primary government and its
component units. For the most part, the effect of inter-fund activity has been removed from these statements.
Governmental activities, which normally are supported by taxes and intergovernmental revenues, are
reported separately from business-type activities (if any), which rely to a significant extent on fees and
charges for support.



                                                     24
                               Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                               NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                            December 31, 2021

1-B. Government-wide and fund financial statements (continued)
The statement of net position reports the financial position of the governmental activities of the District and
its discretely presented component units at year-end.

The statement of activities reports the expenses of a given function offset by program revenues directly
connected with the functional program. A function is an assembly of similar activities and may include
portions of a fund or summarize more than one fund to capture the expenses and program revenues
associated with a distinct functional activity. Direct expenses are those that are clearly identifiable with a
specific function or segment. Indirect expenses are not allocated. All expenses are included in the applicable
function. Program revenues include (1) charges to customers or applicants who purchase, use, or directly
benefit from goods, services, or privilege provided by a given function or segment and (2) grants and
contributions that are restricted to meeting the operational or capital requirements of a particular function
or segment. Taxes and other items not properly included among program revenues are reported instead as
general revenues.
Fund Financial Statements




                                                      T
Major individual governmental funds are reported as separate columns in the fund financial statement.
1-C. Measurement focus, basis of accounting and financial statement presentation
                                 AF
The financial statements of the District are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles (GAAP).
The government-wide statements are reported using the economic resources measurement focus and the
accrual basis of accounting, generally including the reclassification of internal activity (between or within
funds). However, internal eliminations do not include utility services provided to District departments or
payments to the general fund by other funds for providing administrative and billing services for such funds.
          R
Reimbursements are reported as reductions to expenses. Revenues are recorded when earned and expenses
are recorded when a liability is incurred, regardless of the timing of related cash flows. Property tax
revenues are recognized in the year for which they are levied while grants are recognized when the grantor
         D

eligibility requirements are met.
Governmental fund financial statements are reported using the current financial resources measurement
focus and the modified accrual basis of accounting. Revenues are recognized as soon as they are both
measurable and available. Revenues are considered to be available when they are collectible within the
current period or soon enough thereafter to pay liabilities of the current period. The District considers
revenues to be available if they are collected within 60 days of the end of the current fiscal period.
Expenditures generally are recorded when a liability is incurred, as under accrual accounting. However,
debt service expenditures, as well as expenditures related to compensated absences and claims and
judgments, are recorded only when payment is due.




                                                      25
                               Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                               NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                            December 31, 2021

1-C. Measurement focus, basis of accounting and financial statement presentation (continued)
Property taxes, sales taxes, intergovernmental revenues, and interest associated with the current fiscal
period are all considered to be susceptible to accrual and so have been recognized as revenues of the current
fiscal period. Only the portion of special assessments, if any, receivable within the current fiscal period is
considered to be susceptible to accrual as revenue of the current period. All other revenue items are
considered to be measurable and available only when cash is received by the government.
Policy regarding use of restricted resources
When faced with a choice, it is the District's policy to use restricted resources first, then committed and
assigned amounts before spending unassigned amounts. Restricted assets and liabilities payable from
restricted assets current in nature are reported with current assets and current liabilities.
1-D. Fund types and major funds
Governmental funds
The District reports the following major governmental funds:




                                                     T
The General Fund is the government's primary operating fund. It accounts for all financial resources of the
general government, except those required to be accounted for in another fund.
                                 AF
The Intergovernmental Salt Lake County Fund is used to account for the revenues and expenditures for
services provided to the unincorporated Salt Lake County.
The Capital Projects Fund is used to account for the acquisition or construction of major capital facilities
of the District.
1-E. Assets, Liabilities, Deferred Outflows\Inflows of Resources, and Net Position or Equity
          R
1-E-1. Deposits and Investments
Investments are reported at fair value. Deposits are reported at cost, which approximates fair value.
Investments of the District are accounts at the Utah Public Treasurers Investments Fund. Additional
         D


information is contained in Note 3.
Investments are recorded at fair value. Accordingly, the change in fair value of investments is recognized
as an increase or decrease to investment assets and investment income.
1-E-2. Cash and Cash Equivalents
The District's cash and cash equivalents are considered to be cash on hand, demand deposits, and short-
term investments with original maturities of three months or less from the date of acquisition.




                                                     26
                               Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                               NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                            December 31, 2021

1-E-3. Receivables and Payables
Property tax and intergovernmental receivables are considered collectible.

During the course of operations, there may be transactions that occur between funds that are representative
of lending/borrowing arrangements outstanding at year-end. These are reported as either due to or due from
other funds.

Property taxes are assessed and collected for the District by Salt Lake County for certain properties located
in unincorporated Salt Lake County and remitted to the District shortly after collection. Property taxes
become a lien on January 1 and are levied on the first Monday in August. Taxes are due and payable on
November 1, and are delinquent after November 30. All dates are in the year of levy.

1-E-4. Restricted Cash
The District carries restricted cash related to performance bonds and unspent grant revenues.
1-E-5. Capital Assets




                                                      T
Capital assets includes property, plant, equipment, and infrastructure assets (e.g., roads, bridges, sidewalks,
and similar items), and are reported in the applicable governmental or business-type activities columns in
the government-wide financial statements. Capital assets are defined by the government as assets with an
                                 AF
initial, individual cost of $5,000 or more and an estimated useful life in excess of two years. Such assets
are recorded at historical cost or at estimated historical cost if purchased or constructed. Donated capital
assets are recorded at estimated fair market value at the date of donation. Infrastructure is depreciated.
The cost of normal maintenance and repairs that does not add to the value of an asset or materially extend
the assets' life is not capitalized. Major outlays for capital assets and improvements are capitalized as
projects are constructed.
          R

Upon retirement or disposition of capital assets, the cost and related accumulated depreciation are removed
from the respective accounts. Depreciation of capital assets is computed using the straight-line method over
their estimated useful lives.
         D


Property, plant, and equipment of the primary government, as well as the component units if any, is
depreciated using the straight-line method over the following estimated useful lives:
             Assets                                   Years
             Buildings and improvements               10-50
             Improvements other than buildings        20-50
             Machinery and equipment                   5-20
             Office furniture and equipment            5-15

1-E-6. Performance Bonds

The District holds funds in the form of performance bonds that are returned when projects are completed
within the specified time period. If the project is not completed, then the funds revert to the District and are
used to complete the project that was bonded. The District has segregated these funds in a separate bank
account.




                                                      27
                               Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                               NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                            December 31, 2021

1-E-7. Compensated Absences
It is the District’s policy to permit employees to accumulate earned but unused vacation benefits. The
liability for these compensated absences is recorded as a long-term liability in the government-wide
statements. In the fund financial statements, governmental funds report only the compensated absence
liability payable from expendable available financial resources, while the proprietary funds (if any) report
the liability as incurred.

1-E-8. Net Position and Fund Balance
Government-wide Financial Statements
Net position is classified in the government-wide financial statements as net position and is displayed in
three components:
    Net investment in capital assets - Capital assets including restricted capital assets, net of accumulated
    depreciation and reduced by the outstanding balances of any bonds, mortgages, notes, or other
    borrowings that are attributable to the acquisition, construction, or improvement of those assets.




                                                     T
    Restricted net position - Net position with constraints placed on the use either by (1) external groups
    such as creditors, grantors, contributors, or laws or regulations of other governments; or (2) law through
    constitutional provisions or enabling legislation.
                                AF
    Unrestricted net position - All other net position that does not meet the definition of "restricted" or
    "net investment in capital assets."
Fund Financial Statements
In the fund financial statements governmental fund balance is further classified as nonspendable, restricted,
committed, assigned or unassigned. Descriptions of each follow:
          R

    Nonspendable fund balance - This classification includes amounts that cannot be spent because they
    are either (a) not in spendable form, or (b) legally or contractually required to be maintained intact.
    Fund balance amounts related to inventories, prepaid expenditures, and endowments are classified as
         D

    nonspendable.
    Restricted fund balance - This classification includes net fund resources that are subject to external
    constraints that have been placed on the use of the resources either a) imposed by creditors (such as
    through a debt covenant), grantors, contributors, or laws or regulations of the government or b) imposed
    by law through constitutional provisions or enabling legislation.
    Committed fund balance - This classification includes amounts that can only be used for specific
    purposes established by formal action of the District Board, which is the District's highest level of
    decision-making authority. Fund balance commitments can only be removed or changed by the same
    type of action (for example resolution) of the District Board. This classification also includes
    contractual obligations to the extent that existing resources have been specifically committed for use in
    satisfying those contractual requirements.
    Assigned fund balance - This classification includes amounts that the District intends to use for a
    specific purpose but are neither restricted nor committed. These are established by the District Board.
    This category includes the remaining positive fund balances for governmental funds other than the
    general fund.



                                                     28
                               Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                               NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                            December 31, 2021

1-E-8. Net Position and Fund Balance (continued)
    Unassigned fund balance - Residual classification of the General Fund. This classification represents
    fund balance that has not been assigned to other funds and that has not been restricted, committed, or
    assigned to specific purposes within the General Fund.
1-E-9. Deferred Outflows/Inflows of Resources
In addition to assets, the statement of net position will sometimes include a separate section for deferred
outflows of resources. This separate financial statement element, deferred outflows of resources, represents
a consumption of net position that applies to a future period(s) and so will not be recognized as an outflow
of resources (expense/expenditure) until then. The District reports deferred outflows of resources related to
pensions.
In addition to liabilities, the statement of net position will sometimes include a separate section for deferred
inflows of resources. This separate financial statement element, deferred inflows of resources, represents
an acquisition of net position that applies to a future period(s) and so will not be recognized as an inflow of
resources (revenue) until then. The District reports deferred inflows of resources related to pensions.




                                                      T
1-E-10. Pensions
For purposes of measuring the net pension liability, deferred outflows of resources and deferred inflows of
                                 AF
resources related to pensions, and pension expense, information about the fiduciary net position of the Utah
Retirement Systems Pension Plan (URS) and additions to/deductions from URS's fiduciary net position
have been determined on the same basis as they are reported by URS. For this purpose, benefit payments
(including refunds of employee contributions) are recognized when due and payable in accordance with the
benefit terms. Investments are reported at fair value.
1-E-11. Estimates
          R

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and the accompanying notes.
Actual results may differ from those estimates.
         D


NOTE 2 - STEWARDSHIP, COMPLIANCE AND ACCOUNTABILITY
2-A. Budgetary data
Budgets are adopted on a basis consistent with generally accepted accounting principles. The District
maintains legally adopted budgets.
The District Board approves by resolution the total budget appropriation and the individual “township”
appropriations. The District Budget Officer is authorized to transfer budget amounts within departments of
a fund. Any revisions that alter the total appropriations of any fund must be approved by the District Board.
For the District budget, Budgetary control is maintained primarily at the department level.
Each individual township also adopts their individual budget(s). For the Townships, budgetary control is
maintained at the discretely presented component unit (township) level.
Unused appropriations for most of the annually budgeted funds lapse at the end of the year. The exceptions
are those budgets for long-term capital projects.




                                                      29
                               Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                               NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                            December 31, 2021

NOTE 3 - DETAILED NOTES
3-A. Deposits and investments
Cash and investments as of December 31, 2021 consist of the following:
                                                                       Fair Value
            Demand deposits - checking                                $   1,321,815
            State Treasurer's Investment Pool                            36,042,332
              Total cash                                             $ 37,364,147

Cash and investments listed above are classified in the accompanying government-wide statement of net
position as follows:
            Cash and cash equivalents (current)                       $  37,269,084
            Restricted cash and cash equivalents (non-current)               95,063
            Total cash and cash equivalents                           $ 37,364,147




                                                       T
Cash equivalents and investments are carried at fair value.
The Utah Money Management Act (UMMA) establishes specific requirements regarding deposits of public
funds by public treasurers. UMMA requires that District funds be deposited with a qualified depository
                                 AF
which includes any depository institution which has been certified by the Utah State Commissioner of
Financial Institutions as having met the requirements specified in UMMA Section 51, Chapter 7. UMMA
provides the formula for determining the amount of public funds which a qualified depository may hold in
order to minimize risk of loss and also defines capital requirements which an Institution must maintain to
be eligible to accept public funds. UMMA lists the criteria for investments and specifies the assets which
are eligible to be invested in, and for some investments, the amount of time to maturity.
          R
UMMA enables the State Treasurer to operate the Public Treasurer's Investment Pool (PTIF). PTIF is
managed by the Utah State Treasurer's investment staff and comes under the regulatory authority of the
Utah Money Management Council. This council is comprised of a select group of financial professionals
         D

from units of local and state government and financial institutions doing business in the state. PTIF
operations and portfolio composition is monitored at least semi-annually by the Utah Money Management
Council. PTIF is unrated by any nationally recognized statistical rating organizations.
Deposits in PTIF are not insured or otherwise guaranteed by the State of Utah. Participants share
proportionally in any realized gains or losses on investments which are recorded on an amortized cost basis.
The balance available for withdrawal is based on the accounting records maintained by PTIF. The fair value
of the investment pool is approximately equal to the value of the pool shares. The District maintains monies
not immediately needed for expenditure in PTIF accounts.
Fair value of investments
The District measures and records its investments using fair value measurement guidelines established by
generally accepted accounting principles. These guidelines recognize a three-tiered fair value hierarchy, as
follows: Level 1--Quoted prices for identical investments in active markets; Level 2--Observable inputs
other than quoted market prices; and, Level 3--Unobservable inputs. At December 31, 2021, the District
had $36,042,332 invested in the PTIF, which uses a Level 2 fair value measurement.




                                                       30
                                Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                             December 31, 2021

3-A. Deposits and investments (continued)
Deposit and investment risk
The District maintains no investment policy containing any specific provisions intended to limit the
District's exposure to interest rate risk, credit risk, and concentration of credit risk other than that imposed
by UMMA. The District's compliance with the provisions of UMMA addresses each of these risks.

Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that changes in market interest rates will adversely affect the fair value of an
investment. All deposits and investments of the District are available immediately.

Credit risk
Generally, credit risk is the risk that an issuer of an investment will not fulfill its obligations. Custodial
credit risk for deposits is the risk that, in the event of the failure of a depository financial institution, a
government will not be able to recover its deposits. At December 31, 2021, $1,002,434 of the District's
demand deposits of $1,252,434 were uninsured. The book balance at year-end was $1,321,815.




                                                      T
Custodial credit risk for investments is the risk that, in the event of the failure of the counterparty (e.g.,
broker-dealer) to a transaction, a government will not be able to recover the value of its investment or
collateral securities that are in the possession of another party. This risk is addressed through the policy of
                                 AF
investing excess monies only in PTIF.

Concentration of credit risk
Concentration of credit risk is the risk of loss attributed to the magnitude of a government's investment in
a single issuer. PTIF falls under the constraints of UMMA in limiting concentrations of investments.
          R
3-B. Receivables

The allowance policy is described in Note 1-E-3. Receivables as of year-end for the District's funds are
shown below:
         D

                                                                Inter-
                                                           governmental
                                                  General    Salt Lake
                                                   Fund      County      Total
        Customers                               $    1,056            -     1,056
        Intergovernmental                          260,850   3,185,931  3,446,781
            Total receivables                   $ 261,906 3,185,931 3,447,837

3-C. Capital assets

The District does not currently own capital assets directly. The discretely presented component units
(townships) own and account for capital assets.




                                                      31
                                 Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                              December 31, 2021

3-D. Long-term debt and liabilities

Other long-term liabilities:
                                                                         Increase
        Compensated absences:                            Beginning      (Decrease)         Ending
         Governmental                                $       237,719         14,077          251,796
          Total                                      $     237,719          14,077          251,796

        Net pension liability:
         Governmental                                $      223,927        (115,161)         108,766
           Total                                     $     223,927        (115,161)         108,766

3-E. Interfund transactions and balances

The District had the following interfund transactions for year ended December 31, 2021:

     Interfund receivables and payables:




                                                      T
                                                             Due To          Due From
            General fund                                   $  3,131,575                -
            Intergovernmental Salt Lake County                        -        3,131,575
              Total
                                  AF                       $ 3,131,575        3,131,575

The District had the following interfund transfers for the year ended December 31, 2021:

     Interfund transfers:
                                                     Transfers In      Transfers Out
            General fund                             $ 9,649,112           4,259,000
          R
            Intergovernmental Salt Lake County             459,000         9,649,112
            Capital projects fund                        3,800,000                 -
              Total                                  $ 13,908,112       13,908,112
         D

The transfer into the general fund of $9,649,112 represents the sales tax, SB 136, class B&C funds, and
permitting and other fees charged for planning and development services that is transferred to the MSD.
The transfer out of the general fund of $4,259,000 represents the administrative budget of $459,000 to
Salt Lake County for their costs of administration for unincorporated salt lake county and $3,800,000 for
capital projects.

3-F. Contribution to/from other governments

The District provides municipal type services to its members. These services are funded through sales tax,
class B&C road funds, SB 136 sales tax, and service fees that are paid to the respective members of the
District. The members remit these funds to the District for use in providing the municipal type services
and capital projects.




                                                      32
                                Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                             December 31, 2021

NOTE 4 - OTHER INFORMATION

4-A. Risk management

The District is exposed to various risks of loss related to torts; theft of, damage to, and destruction of assets;
errors and omissions; injuries to employees; and natural disasters. It is the policy of the District to purchase
commercial insurance for these risks. Various policies are purchased through an insurance agency to cover
liability, theft, damage, and other losses. A minimal deductible applies to these policies which the District
pays in the event of any loss. There have been no significant reductions in the coverage from the prior year.
Settled claims have not exceeded this commercial coverage in any of the three preceding years. The District
also has purchased a workers’ compensation policy.
4-B. Lease agreement
The District entered into an agreement with Salt Lake County to lease office space. The first term of the
lease was for Oct 1, 2019 through Sep 30, 2020, with two one-year extension term options. The last
extension term has been agreed to by both parties and thereby extends the lease term through Sep 30, 2022




                                                       T
and is for $14,485.81 per month.
4-C. Litigation
                                  AF
The District is a defendant in certain legal actions, pending actions, or in the process for miscellaneous
claims. The ultimate liability which might result from the final resolution of the above matters is not
presently determinable. District management is of the opinion the final outcome of the cases will not have
an adverse effect on the District’s financial statements.
4-D. Subsequent Events
In preparing these financial statements, the District has evaluated events and transactions for potential
          R
recognition or disclosure through the date of the audit report, which is the date the financial statements were
available to be issued.
During February 2022, the District issued $20,000,000 in revenue bonds for the purpose of financing the
         D

cost of construction and maintenance of infrastructure.
4-E. Restatements – Capital assets and change in presentation of component units
The District restated the beginning balances for capital assets. Additionally, beginning in 2021, the District
changed the presentation of its component units from blended component units to discretely presented
component units. Beginning net position and fund balance has been restated to reflect this changes as
follows:
                                                                            Primary                Discretely
                                                               Total      Government                Presented
                                                           Governmental Governmental               Component
                                                              Funds        Activities                 Units
Beginning fund balance/net position, as previously stated  $ 31,599,156    152,624,110                       -
Restatement of capital assets and accumulated depreciation             -    (1,752,084)                      -
Change in presentation                                        (1,679,854) (121,064,841)            121,064,841
 Beginning fund balance/net positions, as restated         $ 29,919,302    29,807,185             121,064,841




                                                       33
                                    Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                                 December 31, 2021

4-F. Pension Plans
General Information about the Pension Plan
Plan description:
Eligible plan participants are provided with pensions through the Utah Retirement Systems. The Utah
Retirement Systems are comprised of the following Pension Trust Funds:
Defined Benefit Plans
    Public Employees Noncontributory Retirement System (Noncontributory System) is a multiple
    employer, cost sharing, public employee retirement system;
    Tier 2 Public Employees Contributory Retirement System (Tier 2 Public Employees System) is a
    multiple employer cost sharing public employee retirement system;
The Tier 2 Public Employees System became effective July 1, 2011. All eligible employees beginning on
or after July 1, 2011, who have no previous service credit with any of the Utah Retirement Systems, are




                                                              T
members of the Tier 2 Retirement System.
The Utah Retirement Systems (Systems) are established and governed by the respective sections of Title
49 of the Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended. The Systems’ defined benefit plans are amended
                                      AF
statutorily by the State Legislature. The Utah State Retirement Office Act in Title 49 provides for the
administration of the Systems under the direction of the Board, whose members are appointed by the
Governor. The Systems are fiduciary funds defined as pension (and other employee benefit) trust funds.
URS is a component unit of the State of Utah. Title 49 of the Utah Code grants the authority to establish
and amend the benefit terms.
URS issues a publicly available financial report that can be obtained by writing Utah Retirement Systems,
            R
560 E. 200 S, Salt Lake District, Utah 84102 or visiting the website: www.urs.org/general/publications.
Benefits provided:
URS provides retirement, disability, and death benefits. Retirement benefits are as follows:
           D


                                          Years of service required
                           Final Average and/or age eligible for      Benefit percentage
System                         Salary              benefit            per year of service                      Cola **
Noncontributory            Highest 3 Years    30 years any age      2.0% per year all years                    Up to 4%
System                                       25 years any age*
                                              20 years age 60*
                                              10 years age 62*
                                               4 years age 65
Tier 2 Public              Highest 5 Years        35 years any age           1.5% per year all years          Up to 2.5%
Employees System                                20 years any age 60*
                                                  10 years age 62*
                                                   4 years age 65
* with actuarial reductions
** All past-retirement cost-of-living adjustments are non-compounding and are based on the original benefit except for Judges,
which is a compounding benefit. The cost-of-living adjustments are also limited to the actual Consumer Price Index (CPI)
increase for the year, although unused CPI increases not met may be carried forward to subsequent years.




                                                              34
                                 Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                              December 31, 2021

4-F. Pension Plans (continued)

Contribution Rate Summary: As a condition of participation in the Systems, employers and/or
employees are required to contribute certain percentages of salary and wages as authorized by statute and
specified by the URS Board. Contributions are actuarially determined as an amount that, when combined
with employee contributions (where applicable) is expected to finance the costs of benefits earned by
employees during the year, with an additional amount to finance any unfunded actuarial accrued liability.
Contribution rates as of December 31, 2021, are as follows:
                                                                                                 Employer
Utah Retirement Systems                                            Employee       Employer        401(k)
Contributory System
 111 - Local Government Div - Tier 2                                  N/A           16.07          0.62
Noncontributory System
 15 - Local Government Div - Tier 1                                   N/A           18.47          N/A
Tier 2 DC Only
 211 - Local Government                                               N/A            6.69         10.00
Tier 2 rates include a statutory required contribution to finance the unfunded actuarial accrued liability of
the Tier 1 plans.




                                                        T
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021, the employer and employee contributions to the Systems
were as follows:
                                  AF
                                                                    Employer    Employee
System                                                           Contributions Contributions
Noncontributory System                                            $   291,479          N/A
Tier 2 Public Employees System                                        164,528              -
Tier 2 DC Only System                                                   19,464         N/A
 Total Contributions                                              $ 475,471                -
          R
Contributions reported are the URS Board approved required contributions by System. Contributions in
the Tier 2 Systems are used to finance the unfunded liabilities in the Tier 1 Systems.
         D

Combined Pension Assets, Liabilities, Expense, and Deferred Outflows of Resources and Deferred
Inflows of Resources Related to Pensions

At December 31, 2021, we reported a net pension asset of $0 and a net pension liability of $108,766.

                                        (Measurement Date): December 31, 2020
                                                                                 Proportionate
                                       Net Pension   Net Pension Proportionate       Share         Change
                                          Asset       Liability      Share        12/31/2019     (Decrease)
Noncontributory System                 $         -        100,162  0.1952693%      0.0585787%     0.1366906%
Tier 2 Public Employees System                   -          8,604  0.0598196%      0.0140132%     0.0458064%
 Total                                 $         -       108,766

The net pension asset and liability was measured as of December 31, 2020, and the total pension liability
used to calculate the net pension asset and liability was determined by an actuarial valuation as of January
1, 2020 and rolled-forward using generally accepted actuarial procedures. The proportion of the net
pension asset and liability is equal to the ratio of the employer's actual contributions to the Systems during
the plan year over the total of all employer contributions to the System during the plan year.




                                                        35
                                Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                             December 31, 2021

4-F. Pension Plans (continued)
For the year ended December 31, 2021, the District recognizes pension expense of $391,266.
At December 31, 2021, the District reported deferred outflows of resources and deferred inflows of
resources relating to pensions from the following sources:

                                                                     Deferred Outflows Deferred Inflows
                                                                        of Resources       of Resources
Difference between expected and actual experience                      $      134,374     $             -
Changes in assumptions                                                               -            13,102
Net difference between projected and actual earnings on
  pension plan investments                                                           -              731,389
Changes in proportion and differences between
contributions and proportionate share of contributions                        588,366                 -
Contributions subsequent to the measurement date                              291,479                 -
 Total                                                                 $   1,014,220      $     744,491




                                                          T
$291,479 reported as deferred outflows of resources related to pensions results from contributions made
by us prior to our fiscal year end, but subsequent to the measurement date of December 31, 2020. These
                                  AF
contributions will be recognized as a reduction of the net pension liability in the upcoming fiscal year.
Other amounts reported as deferred outflows of resources and deferred inflows of resources related to
pensions will be recognized in pension expense as follows:
                                                                       Net Deferred
                                                                     Outflows (Inflows)
          R
             Year Ended December 31,                                   of Resources
                               2022                                   $       131,002
                               2023                                           174,921
                               2024                                          (206,417)
         D

                               2025                                          (121,256)
                               2026                                                  -
                          Thereafter                                                 -

Actuarial assumptions:
The total pension liability in the December 31, 2020, actuarial valuation was determined using the
following actuarial assumptions, applied to all periods included in the measurement:
          Inflation                             2.50 Percent
          Salary increases                      3.25 - 9.75 percent, average, including inflation
          Investment rate of return             6.95 percent, net of pension plan investment
                                                expense, including inflation

Mortality rates were adopted from an actuarial experience study dated January 1, 2020. The retired
mortality tables are developed using URS retiree experience and are based upon gender, occupation,
and age as appropriate with projected improvement using 80% of the ultimate rates from the MP-2019
improvement assumption using a base year of 2020. The mortality assumption for active members is
the PUB-2010 Employees Mortality Table for public employees, teachers, and public safety members,
respectively.


                                                          36
                               Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                               NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                            December 31, 2021

4-F. Pension Plans (continued)
The actuarial assumptions used in the January 1, 2020, valuations were based on the results of an actuarial
experience study for the five-year period ending December 31, 2019.
The long-term expected rate of return on pension plan investments was determined using a building-block
method in which best- estimate ranges of expected future real rates of return (expected returns, net of
pension plan investment expense and inflation) are developed for each major asset class. These ranges are
combined to produce the long-term expected rate of return by weighting the expected future real rates of
return by the target asset allocation percentage and by adding expected inflation.
The target allocation and best estimates of arithmetic real rates of return for each major asset class are
summarized in the following table:
                                                             Expected Return Arithmetic Basis
                                                                       Real Return    Long Term expected
                                                  Target Asset         Arithmetic        portfolio real
Assets class                                        Allocation           Basis           rate of return




                                                      T
Equity securities                                             37%               6.30%                2.33%
Debt securities                                               20%               0.00%                0.00%
Real assets                                                   15%               6.19%                0.93%
Private equity
                                 AF                           12%               9.50%                1.14%
Absolute return                                               16%               2.75%                0.44%
Cash and cash equivalents                                      0%               0.00%                0.00%
  Totals                                                100.00%                                     4.84%
                                      Inflation                                                      2.50%
                                      Expected arithmetic nominal return                             7.34%
          R
The 6.95% assumed investment rate of return is comprised of an inflation rate of 2.50%, a real return of
4.45% that is net of investment expense.
Discount rate:
         D


The discount rate used to measure the total pension liability was 6.95 percent. The projection of cash
flows used to determine the discount rate assumed that employee contributions will be made at the current
contribution rate and that contributions from all participating employers will be made at contractually
required rates that are actuarially determined and certified by the URS Board. Based on those
assumptions, the pension plan's fiduciary net position was projected to be available to make all projected
future benefit payments of current active and inactive employees. Therefore, the long-term expected rate
of return on pension plan investments was applied to all periods of projected benefit payments to
determine the total pension liability. The discount rate does not use the Municipal Bond Index Rate. The
discount rate remained unchanged at 6.95 percent.




                                                      37
                               Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                               NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                            December 31, 2021

4-F. Pension Plans (continued)
Sensitivity of the proportionate share of the net pension asset and liability to changes in the
discount rate:
The following presents the proportionate share of the net pension liability calculated using the discount
rate of 6.95 percent, as well as what the proportionate share of the net pension liability would be if it were
calculated using a discount rate that is 1-percentage-point lower (5.95 percent) or 1-percentage-point
higher (7.95 percent) than the current rate:

                                                      1% Decrease      Discount Rate       1% Increase
System                                                  (5.95%)           (6.95%)            (7.95%)
  Noncontributory System                             $    1,736,511    $      100,162    $    (1,263,981)
  Tier 2 Public Employees System                            144,775             8,604            (95,564)
   Total                                             $ 1,881,286       $     108,766     $ (1,359,545)


Pension plan fiduciary net position:




                                                      T
Detailed information about the pension plan's fiduciary net position is available in the separately issued
URS financial report.
Defined Contribution Savings Plan:
                                   AF
The Defined Contribution Savings Plans are administered by the Utah Retirement Systems Board and are
generally supplemental plans to the basic retirement benefits of the Retirement Systems, but may also be
used as a primary retirement plan. These plans are voluntary tax-advantaged retirement savings programs
authorized under sections 401(k), 457(b) and 408 of the Internal Revenue code. Detailed information
regarding plan provisions is available in the separately issued URS financial report. The District
          R
participates in the following Defined Contribution Savings Plans with the Utah Retirement Systems:

       401(k) Plan
       457(b) PlanNote
         D

       Roth IRA Plan
Employee and employer contributions to the Utah Retirement Contribution Savings Plans for fiscal year
ended June 30, were as follows:
                                              2021             2020               2019
     401(k) Plan
      Employer Contributions             $      112,342    $      98,691      $         26,877
      Employee Contributions                    126,539          116,930                32,357

     457 Plan
      Employer Contributions                          -                   -                  -
      Employee Contributions                      2,894               5,862              2,486

     Roth IRA Plan
      Employer Contributions                       N/A                 N/A                N/A
      Employee Contributions                      2,525               2,600              1,410




                                                      38
                                                             Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                                             NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                                                          December 31, 2021

4-G. Discretely presented component units
The District has seven discretely presented component units. The summarized statements of net position as of December 31, 2021 are as follows:
                                                                                                       Emigration
                                                Kearns         Magna         Town        Copperton      Canyon         Pleasant       White City      Total
                                                Metro          Metro           of          Metro         Metro          Green          Metro        Component
                                               Township       Township      Brighton     Township      Township        Cemetery       Township        Units
  ASSETS:
   Current assets:
    Cash and cash equivalents              $             -          7,802            -       108,769          94,270       59,717          74,636        345,194
    Due from other governments                   1,574,923      1,486,617      113,554        36,059          93,200            -         223,040      3,527,394




                                                                                   T
    Prepaids                                         8,802              -            -             -               -            -               -          8,802
   Total current assets                          1,583,725      1,494,419      113,554       144,828         187,470       59,717         297,677      3,881,389

   Non-current assets:




                                                                AF
    Restricted cash and cash equivalents         3,104,552      2,848,631        2,308        72,607         192,926              -       540,329      6,761,353
    Capital assets:
      Not being depreciated                     45,805,817     53,760,043      513,326     1,171,787     2,739,906                -     6,334,907    110,325,786
      Net of accumulated depreciation            1,737,689      5,980,044            -       547,580             -                -       442,106      8,707,418
   Total non-current assets                     50,648,058     62,588,717      515,635     1,791,974     2,932,832                -     7,317,341    125,794,557

  Total assets                             $ 52,231,783       64,083,136      629,189     1,936,802     3,120,302         59,717       7,615,018    129,675,947



  LIABILITIES:
   Current liabilities:
     Accounts payable
     Unearned revenue
                                           $
                                                   R36,911
                                                 3,126,396
                                                                   15,432
                                                                3,053,191
                                                                                18,349
                                                                                16,096
                                                                                               1,475
                                                                                              72,607
                                                                                                              18,335
                                                                                                             163,156
                                                                                                                            4,492
                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                            5,158
                                                                                                                                          539,676
                                                                                                                                                         100,153
                                                                                                                                                       6,971,122
                                       D
     Performance bonds                             800,827        527,148            -             -          29,769            -             653      1,358,397
   Total current liabilities                     3,964,135      3,595,771       34,445        74,082         211,260        4,492         545,487      8,429,671

  Total liabilities                             3,964,135      3,595,771       34,445        74,082       211,260          4,492         545,487      8,429,671

  NET POSITION:
   Net investment in capital assets             47,543,506     59,740,087      513,326     1,719,367     2,739,906              -       6,777,013    119,033,205
   Unrestricted                                    724,143        747,278       81,418       143,353       169,135         55,225         292,518      2,213,071
  Total net position                           48,267,649     60,487,365      594,745     1,862,719     2,909,041         55,225       7,069,531    121,246,275

  Total liabilities and net position       $ 52,231,783       64,083,136      629,189     1,936,802     3,120,302         59,717       7,615,018    129,675,947




                                                                                   39
                                                        Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                                        NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                                                     December 31, 2021

 4-G. Discretely presented component units (continued)
 The summarized statements of activities for the year ended December 31, 2021 are as follows:

                                                                                                        Emigration
                                          Kearns            Magna           Town         Copperton       Canyon       Pleasant       White City      Total
                                          Metro             Metro             of           Metro          Metro        Green          Metro        Component
                                         Township          Township        Brighton      Township       Township      Cemetery       Township        Units

Expenses                                $ 9,491,533        10,820,730        884,728        400,393        757,187       24,937       1,419,553     23,799,059




                                                                              T
Program revenues:
 Charges for sales and service               734,049         3,049,546        126,421         15,784       126,662        71,565          69,637      4,193,663
 Operating grants and contributions        2,302,447         1,920,944        290,788        197,537       377,015             -         515,809      5,604,540




                                                           AF
Total program revenues                    3,036,496         4,970,490        417,209        213,321       503,677        71,565         585,446      9,798,203

Net (expense) revenue                     (6,455,037)      (5,850,240)      (467,519)      (187,071)      (253,510)      46,628        (834,106)   (14,000,856)

General revenues:
 Property taxes                                5,708                 -              -              -          3,662              -             -          9,371
 Sales taxes                               6,564,815         5,717,024        476,418        155,878        308,857              -       917,836     14,140,829
 Interest income                             R 6,851             8,224             22            444            905              -         1,125         17,573
 Miscellaneous                                 1,351            12,603              -            554              -              -            10         14,518
Total general revenues                    6,578,726         5,737,852        476,441        156,876        313,425               -      918,971     14,182,290

Change in net position                      123,689          (112,388)         8,922        (30,195)        59,915       46,628          84,865       181,434
                                    D
Net position - beginning, as restated      48,143,960       60,599,753        585,823      1,892,915      2,849,127        8,597       6,984,667    121,064,841

Net position - ending                   $ 48,267,649       60,487,365        594,744      1,862,719      2,909,041       55,225       7,069,531    121,246,275




                                                                              40
                                                     Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                                     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                                                  December 31, 2021

  4-G. Discretely presented component units (continued)
  The summarized balance sheet for the year ended December 31, 2021 are as follows:

                                                                                                      Emigration
                                                Kearns       M agna        Town          Copperton     Canyon      Pleasant    White City     Total
                                                M etro       M etro          of            M etro       M etro      Green       M etro      Component
                                               Township     Township      Brighton       Township     Township     Cemetery    Township       Units
AS S ETS
 Cash and cash equivalents                 $            -        7,802             -        108,769       94,270      59,717       74,636      345,194
 Due from other governments                     1,574,923    1,486,617       113,554         36,059       93,200           -      223,040    3,527,394




                                                                           T
 Prepaids                                           8,802            -             -              -            -           -            -        8,802
 Restricted cash and cash equivalents           3,104,552    2,848,631         2,308         72,607      192,926           -      540,329    6,761,353




                                                            AF
TOTAL AS S ETS                             $ 4,688,277       4,343,050       115,863        217,435      380,395      59,717      838,005   10,642,742

LIABILITIES
 Accounts payable                          $       36,911       15,432          18,349        1,475       18,335       4,492        5,158      100,153
 Performance bonds                                800,827      527,148               -            -       29,769           -          653    1,358,397
 Unearned revenue                               3,126,396    3,053,191          16,096       72,607      163,156           -      539,676    6,971,122

TOTAL LIABILITIES                           R   3,964,135    3,595,771          34,445       74,082      211,260       4,492      545,487    8,429,671

FUND BALANCES :
 Assigned                                        724,143       747,278          81,418      143,353      169,135      55,225      292,518    2,213,071
                                        D
TOTAL FUND BALANCES                              724,143       747,278          81,418      143,353      169,135      55,225      292,518    2,213,071

TOTAL LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCES        $ 4,688,277       4,343,050       115,863        217,435      380,395      59,717      838,005   10,642,742




                                                                           41
                                                        Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                                        NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                                                     December 31, 2021

4-G. Discretely presented component units (continued)
The summarized statement of revenues, expenditures and changes in fund balances for the year ended December 31, 2021 are as follows:

                                                                                                        Emigration
                                         Kearns             M agna         Town        Copperton         Canyon      Pleasant    White City     Total
                                         M etro             M etro           of         M etro            M etro      Green       M etro      Component
                                        Township           Township       Brighton     Township         Township     Cemetery    Township       Units
REVENUES :
 Property taxes                         $       5,708               -             -             -            3,662           -            -        9,371
 Sales taxes                                6,564,815       5,717,024       476,418       155,878          308,857           -      917,836   14,140,829




                                                                              T
 Franchise fees                                     -               -             -             -            5,000           -            -        5,000
 Licenses and permits                         529,411       2,313,682        99,057         5,675           61,678           -       37,511    3,047,013
 Intergovernmental revenues                 1,848,947       1,309,189        15,338        37,537          155,617           -      235,352    3,601,979




                                                           AF
 Charges for services                          45,256         581,152        26,264         6,440           41,945      71,565        7,180      779,801
 Fines and forfeitures                        159,383         154,712         1,101         3,669           18,837           -       24,947      362,647
 Interest                                       6,851           8,224            22           444              905           -        1,125       17,573
 Other revenue                                  1,351          12,603             -           554                -           -           10       14,518
 Contributions from other governments         453,500         611,755       275,450       160,000          220,600           -      280,457    2,001,762
Total revenues                              9,615,221      10,708,341       893,649       370,197          817,102      71,565    1,504,417   23,980,493

EXPENDITURES :                               R
 Salaries, wages and benefits                  96,347          58,091       109,462        66,000           71,049           -       23,850      424,798
 Operation equipment and supplies             340,638         175,287        49,700        21,327           10,410      24,325        7,641      629,327
 Professional services                        120,102         316,900       106,810        43,323           56,519         613      115,106      759,372
 Interagency contracts                         17,433         114,083             -        10,339           12,202           -       10,178      164,234
                                    D
 Insurance                                     23,046          16,237         5,360         9,263           10,554           -        9,795       74,255
 Contributions to other governments         8,830,804       9,928,380       613,396       203,376          596,454           -    1,222,882   21,395,292
Total expenditures                          9,428,369      10,608,976       884,728       353,628          757,187      24,937    1,389,452   23,447,277


Net Change in Fund Balances                  186,852           99,366         8,922        16,569           59,915      46,628      114,966      533,216

Fund balances - beginning of year            537,291          647,913        72,496       126,784          109,220       8,597      177,553    1,679,855

Fund balance - end of year              $    724,143          747,278        81,418       143,353          169,135      55,225      292,518    2,213,071




                                                                              42
                T
    AF
REQUIRED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
              (Unaudited)
 R
D




                43
                 T
 AF
 This page intentionally left blank.
 R
D




                 44
                             Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                            Notes to Required Supplementary Information
                                          December 31, 2020


Budgetary Comparison Schedules

The Budgetary Comparison Schedules presented in this section of the report is for the District's General
Fund and other governmental funds. The schedules are presented in a basis that is consistent with GAAP.

Budgeting and Budgetary Control

The budget for the General Fund is legally required and is prepared and adopted on the modified accrual
basis of accounting.

Original budgets represent the revenue estimates and spending authority authorized by the District
Council prior to the beginning of the year. Final budgets represent the original budget amounts plus any
amendments made to the budget during the year by the Council through formal resolution. Final budgets
do not include unexpended balances from the prior year because such balances automatically lapse to
unreserved fund balance at the end of each year.




                                                   T
Changes in Assumptions Related to Pensions

There were a number of demographic assumptions (e.g. rates of termination, disability, retirement, as well
                               AF
as an updated mortality and salary increase assumption) updated for use in the January 1, 2020 actuarial
valuation. These assumption updates were adopted by the Utah State Retirement Board as a result of an
Actuarial Experience Study performed for the Utah Retirement Systems. In aggregate, those assumption
changes resulted in a $201 million increase in the Total Pension Liability, which is about 0.50% of the
Total Pension Liability as of December 31, 2019 for all systems combined. The Actuarial Experience
Study report as of December 31, 2019 provides detailed information regarding those assumption changes,
          R
which may be accessed online at newsroom.urs.org under the “Retirement Office” column using the
“Reports and Stats” tab.
         D




                                                    45
                         Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
         SCHEDULE OF REVENUES, EXPENDITURES, AND CHANGES IN FUND BALANCES
                        BUDGET AND ACTUAL - GENERAL FUND
                           For the Year Ended December 31, 2021



                                               Budgeted       Budgeted                     Variance with
                                               Original        Final         Actual        Final Budget
REVENUES:
 Intergovernmental revenues                $            -         81,052         81,052                -
 Interest                                         202,100        202,100         46,581         (155,519)
 Miscellaneous revenue                                  -              -         31,865           31,865
 Contributions from other governments          14,771,196     14,813,152     21,395,292        6,582,141
Total revenues                                 14,973,296     15,096,304     21,554,790        6,458,487

EXPENDITURES:
 Salaries, wages and benefits                   4,819,126      4,819,126      4,590,646         228,480
 Operation equipment and supplies              16,342,240     16,497,854        388,341      16,109,512
 Professional services                            667,000        662,000        743,787         (81,787)
 Interagency contracts                          3,654,561      3,754,561     13,132,224      (9,377,663)
 Insurance                                         92,000         92,000        144,457         (52,457)
 Rent                                             170,100        170,100        169,632             468




                                                  T
 Other                                              4,000          4,000          5,129          (1,129)
 Contributions to other governments             2,001,762      2,001,762      2,001,762               -
Total expenditures                             27,750,789     28,001,403     21,175,978       6,825,424
                                       AF
Excess (Deficiency) of Revenues over
 (Under) Expenditures                          (12,777,493)   (12,905,099)     378,812       13,283,911

Other Financing Sources and (Uses):
 Bond proceeds                                  12,076,000     12,076,000             -      (12,076,000)
 Transfers in                                   10,235,761     10,235,761     9,649,112         (586,649)
               R
 Transfers (out)                               (13,922,078)   (13,922,078)   (4,259,000)       9,663,078
Total other financing sources and (uses)         8,389,683      8,389,683     5,390,112       (2,999,571)

Net Change in Fund Balances                     (4,387,810)    (4,515,416)    5,768,924      10,284,340
              D


Fund balances - beginning of year              16,290,327     16,290,327     16,290,327                -

Fund balance - end of year                 $   11,902,517     11,774,911     22,059,251      10,284,340




                                                  46
                       Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
       SCHEDULE OF REVENUES, EXPENDITURES, AND CHANGES IN FUND BALANCES
        BUDGET AND ACTUAL - INTERGOVERNMENTAL SALT LAKE COUNTY FUND
                         For the Year Ended December 31, 2021



                                               Budgeted       Budgeted                     Variance with
                                               Original        Final         Actual        Final Budget
REVENUES:
 Property taxes                            $            -              -         5,527            5,527
 Sales taxes                                    4,870,103      4,870,103     4,895,049           24,946
 License and permits                              177,400        185,710       343,414          157,704
 Intergovernmental revenues                     4,875,058      4,875,058     4,222,309         (652,749)
 Charges for services                             216,600        216,600       156,221          (60,379)
 Fines and forfeitures                             16,600         16,600        49,159           32,559
 Interest                                          80,000         80,000         4,612          (75,388)
 Miscellaneous revenue                                  -              -            85               85
Total revenues                                 10,235,761     10,244,071     9,676,376         (567,695)

EXPENDITURES:
 Operation equipment and supplies                 315,000        315,310       315,296               14
 Professional services                            144,000        152,000       151,830              170




                                                 T
Total expenditures                                459,000        467,310       467,126              184

Excess (Deficiency) of Revenues over
 (Under) Expenditures
                                    AF          9,776,761      9,776,761     9,209,249         (567,512)

Other Financing Sources and (Uses):
 Transfers in                                      459,000        459,000       459,000               -
 Transfers (out)                               (10,235,761)   (10,235,761)   (9,649,112)        586,649
Total other financing sources and (uses)        (9,776,761)    (9,776,761)   (9,190,112)        586,649
             R
Net Change in Fund Balances                               -              -      19,137           19,137

Fund balances - beginning of year                  35,219         35,219        35,219                 -
            D

Fund balance - end of year                 $       35,219         35,219        54,356           19,137




                                                 47
                       Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
       SCHEDULE OF REVENUES, EXPENDITURES, AND CHANGES IN FUND BALANCES
                  BUDGET AND ACTUAL - CAPITAL PROJECTS FUND
                         For the Year Ended December 31, 2021


                                             Budgeted       Budgeted                     Variance with
                                             Original        Final         Actual        Final Budget
REVENUES:
 Intergovernmental revenues                $ 29,857,964     30,471,248      1,774,300     (28,696,948)
 Interest                                             -              -         50,833          50,833
 Miscellaneous revenue                                -              -          2,482           2,482
Total revenues                               29,857,964     30,471,248      1,827,615     (28,643,633)

EXPENDITURES:
 Operation equipment and supplies            29,857,964     33,559,004      4,925,856      28,633,148
Total expenditures                           29,857,964     33,559,004      4,925,856      28,633,148

Excess (Deficiency) of Revenues over
 (Under) Expenditures                                   -   (3,087,756)    (3,098,240)        (10,484)

Other Financing Sources and (Uses):
 Transfers in                                           -              -    3,800,000       3,800,000




                                               T
Total other financing sources and (uses)                -              -    3,800,000       3,800,000

Net Change in Fund Balances                             -   (3,087,756)      701,760        3,789,516
                                    AF
Fund balances - beginning of year            13,593,755     13,593,755     13,593,755                -

Fund balance - end of year                 $ 13,593,755     10,505,999     14,295,515       3,789,516
             R
            D




                                               48
                   Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
  SCHEDULE OF THE PROPORTIONATE SHARE OF THE NET PENSION LIABILITY
                                December 31, 2021
                               Last 10 Fiscal Years*
                                                                                        As of December 31,
                                                                                        2020         2019
Noncontributory Retirement System
 Proportion of the net pension liability (asset)                                      0.1952693% 0.0585787%
 Proportionate share of the net pension liability (asset)                             $ 100,162 $ 220,775
 Covered payroll                                                                      $ 1,561,222 $ 482,293
 Proportionate share of the net pension liability (asset) as a percentage of its
 covered payroll                                                                          6.42%         45.78%
 Plan fiduciary net position as a percentage of the total pension liability/(asset)
                                                                                         99.20%         93.70%

Tier 2 Public Employees Retirement System
 Proportion of the net pension liability (asset)                                      0.0598196% 0.0140132%
 Proportionate share of the net pension liability (asset)                             $    8,604 $    3,152
 Covered payroll                                                                      $ 956,325 $ 193,518
 Proportionate share of the net pension liability (asset) as a percentage of its
 covered payroll                                                                          0.90%          1.63%
 Plan fiduciary net position as a percentage of the total pension liability/(asset)




                                                         T
                                                                                         98.30%         96.50%
* In accordance with paragraph 81.a of GASB 68, employers will need to disclose a 10-year history of their
proportionate share of the Net Pension Liability (Asset) in their RSI. The District began participating in URS in
                                  AF
2019. The 10-year schedule will need to be built prospectively.
         R
        D




                                                         49
                                 Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                   SCHEDULE OF CONTRIBUTIONS
                                              December 31, 2021
                                             Last 10 Fiscal Years*


                           As of
                           fiscal             Contributions in
                            year               relation to the                          Contributions
                           ended   Actuarial    contractually Contribution             as a percentage
                            Dec   Determined      required     deficiency    Covered     of covered
                             31, Contributions contribution     (excess)      payroll      payroll
Noncontributory Retirement 2019 $      89,079 $        89,079 $           - $ 494,748          18.00%
System                      2020      284,284         284,284             -  1,576,834         18.03%
                            2021      291,479         291,479             -  1,625,185         17.94%
Tier 2 Public Employees     2019       32,473          32,473             -    200,599         16.19%
System**                    2020      150,838         150,838             -    964,019         15.65%
                            2021      164,528         164,528             -  1,031,894         15.94%
Tier 2 Public Employees DC 2019         2,788            2,788            -     41,677          6.69%
Only System**               2020       10,611          10,611             -    158,617          6.69%
                            2021       19,464          19,464             -    292,175          6.69%




                                                         T
* Paragraph 81.b of GASB 68 requires employers to disclose a 10-year history of contributions in RSI. The District
began participating in URS in 2019. The 10-year schedule will need to be built prospectively.
** Contributions as a percentage of covered-payroll may be different than the board certified rate due to rounding
                                   AF
and other administrative issues.
           R
          D




                                                         50
      T
 AF
 OTHER REPORTS
 R
D




      51
                 T
 AF
 This page intentionally left blank.
 R
D




                 52
Board of Trustees
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District

We have audited, in accordance with the auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of
America and the standards applicable to financial audits contained in Government Auditing Standards
issued by the Comptroller General of the United States, the financial statements of the governmental
activities, the aggregate discretely presented component units, each major fund, and the aggregate
remaining fund information of Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (the District), as of and for
the year ended December 31, 2021, and the related notes to the financial statements, which collectively
comprise the District’s basic financial statements, and have issued our report thereon dated May 31, 2022.

Internal Control over Financial Reporting

In planning and performing our audit of the financial statements, we considered the District’s internal




                                                     T
control over financial reporting (internal control) as a basis for designing audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances for the purpose of expressing our opinions on the financial statements,
but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the District’s internal control.
                                 AF
Accordingly, we do not express an opinion on the effectiveness of the District’s internal control.

A deficiency in internal control exists when the design or operation of a control does not allow
management or employees, in the normal course of performing their assigned functions, to prevent, or
detect and correct, misstatements on a timely basis. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination
of deficiencies, in internal control, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement
of the entity’s financial statements will not be prevented, or detected and corrected on a timely basis. A
          R
significant deficiency is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control that is less
severe than a material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention by those charged with
governance.
         D

Our consideration of internal control was for the limited purpose described in the first paragraph of this
section and was not designed to identify all deficiencies in internal control that might be material
weaknesses or significant deficiencies. Given these limitations, during our audit we did not identify any
deficiencies in internal control that we consider to be material weaknesses. However, material weaknesses
may exist that have not been identified.

Compliance and Other Matters

As part of obtaining reasonable assurance about whether the District’s financial statements are free from
material misstatement, we performed tests of its compliance with certain provisions of laws, regulations,
contracts, and grant agreements, noncompliance with which could have a direct and material effect on the
financial statements. However, providing an opinion on compliance with those provisions was not an
objective of our audit, and accordingly, we do not express such an opinion. The results of our tests
disclosed no instances of noncompliance or other matters that are required to be reported under
Government Auditing Standards.




                                                     53
Purpose of this Report

The purpose of this report is solely to describe the scope of our testing of internal control and compliance
and the results of that testing, and not to provide an opinion on the effectiveness of the District’s internal
control or on compliance. This report is an integral part of an audit performed in accordance with
Government Auditing Standards in considering the District’s internal control and compliance.
Accordingly, this communication is not suitable for any other purpose.


Orem, Utah
May 31, 2022




                                                      T
                                 AF
          R
         D




                                                      54
Board of Trustees
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District

Report on Compliance

Opinion on Compliance

We have audited Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District’s (the District) compliance with the
following applicable state compliance requirements described in the State Compliance Audit Guide,
issued by the Office of the Utah State Auditor, for the year ended December 31, 2021:

        Budgetary Compliance
        Fund Balance
        Restricted Taxes and Other Related Restricted Revenue
        Fraud Risk Assessment




                                                    T
        Government Fees
        Tax Levy Revenue Recognition
        Special and Local Service District Board Members
        Utah Retirement Systems
                                AF
In our opinion, Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District complied, in all material respects, with the
state compliance requirements referred to above for the year ended December 31, 2021.

Basis for Opinion on Compliance
          R
We conducted our audit of compliance in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the
United States of America; the standards applicable to financial audits contained in Government Auditing
Standards, issued by the Comptroller General of the United States; and the State Compliance Audit
Guide, issued by the Office of the Utah State Auditor. Our responsibilities under those standards and the
         D

State Compliance Audit Guide are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of
Compliance section of our report.

We are required to be independent of the District and to meet our other ethical responsibilities, in
accordance with relevant ethical requirements relating to our audit. We believe that the audit evidence we
have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion on compliance. Our audit
does not provide a legal determination of the District’s compliance with the compliance requirements
referred to above.

Responsibilities of Management for Compliance

Management is responsible for compliance with the state compliance requirements referred to above.

Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of Compliance

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether material noncompliance with the
compliance requirements referred to above occurred, whether due to fraud or error, and express an
opinion on the District’s compliance based on our audit. Reasonable assurance is a high level of




                                                    55
assurance but is not absolute assurance and therefore is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in
accordance with GAAS, Government Auditing Standards, and the State Compliance Audit Guide will
always detect material noncompliance when it exists. The risk of not detecting material noncompliance
resulting from fraud is higher than for that resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery,
intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. Noncompliance with the
compliance requirements referred to above is considered material, if there is a substantial likelihood that,
individually or in the aggregate, it would influence the judgment made by a reasonable user of the report
on compliance about the District’s compliance with the requirements of the State Compliance Audit
Guide as a whole

In performing an audit in accordance with GAAS, Government Auditing Standards, and the State
Compliance Audit Guide, we:

       Exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit.

       Identify and assess the risks of material noncompliance, whether due to fraud or error, and design
        and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks. Such procedures include examining, on a
        test basis, evidence regarding the District’s compliance with the compliance requirements
        referred to above and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the




                                                     T
        circumstances.

       Obtain an understanding of the District’s internal control over compliance relevant to the audit in
                                AF
        order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances and to test and report on
        internal control over compliance in accordance with the State Compliance Audit Guide, but not
        for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the District’s internal control
        over compliance. Accordingly, no such opinion is expressed.

We are required to communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the
planned scope and timing of the audit and any significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in internal
          R
control over compliance that we identified during the audit.

Report on Internal Control over Compliance
         D

A deficiency in internal control over compliance exists when the design or operation of a control over
compliance does not allow management or employees, in the normal course of performing their assigned
functions, to prevent, or detect and correct, noncompliance with a type of compliance requirement of a
federal program on a timely basis. A material weakness in internal control over compliance is a
deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over compliance, such that there is a
reasonable possibility that material noncompliance with a type of compliance requirement of a federal
program will not be prevented, or detected and corrected, on a timely basis. A significant deficiency in
internal control over compliance is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over
compliance with a state compliance requirement that is less severe than a material weakness in internal
control over compliance, yet important enough to merit attention by those charged with governance.

Our consideration of internal control over compliance was for the limited purpose described in the
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of Compliance section above and was not designed to identify all
deficiencies in internal control over compliance that might be material weaknesses or significant
deficiencies in internal control over compliance. Given these limitations, during our audit we did not
identify any deficiencies in internal control over compliance that we consider to be material weaknesses,
as defined above. However, material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in internal control over
compliance may exist that were not identified.




                                                     56
Our audit was not designed for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of internal
control over compliance. Accordingly, no such opinion is expressed.

The purpose of this report on internal control over compliance is solely to describe the scope of our
testing of internal control over compliance and the results of that testing based on the requirements of the
State Compliance Audit Guide. Accordingly, this report is not suitable for any other purpose.


Orem, Utah
May 31, 2022




                                                     T
                                AF
          R
         D




                                                     57
DATE           THURSDAY                                MAY                                5, 2022

           THE WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL, STATE OF UTAH, MET ON
THURSDAY, MAY 5, 2022, PURSUANT TO ADJOURNMENT ON MONDAY, APRIL 7, 2022, AT
THE HOUR OF 6:00 P.M. THE MEETING WAS HELD AT THE WHITE CITY WATER
IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT AT 999 EAST GALENA DRIVE, WHITE CITY, 84094.


COUNCIL MEMBERS
PRESENT:                      ALLAN PERRY
                              SCOTT LITTLE
                              PHILLIP CARDENAZ
                              LINDA PRICE
                              PAULINA FLINT, Mayor

OTHERS IN ATTENDANCE: PAUL ASHTON, LEGAL COUNSEL
                      RORI ANDREASON, ADMINISTRATOR
                      NICHOLE WATT, DEPUTY CLERK

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
               Mayor Paulina Flint, Chair, presided.

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                                        Business Meeting

               The Council reviewed the following agenda items:

    White City Metro Township Planning Commission Applicants

               Rori Andreason stated the White City Metro Township Planning Commission has
three vacancies: one alternate and two full-time positions. She has received applications from the
following individuals interested in serving: Stephanie Solte, Howard Van Horn, Tyler Huish,
Weston Millen, Chris Huntzinger, and Gene Wilson.

               The Council gave the applicants that were present the opportunity to introduce
themselves.

                Chris Huntzinger stated he has served as an alternate for two years and wants
to continue serving in a full-time position. He loves how the community is setup and wants to
continue representing and speaking up for the community. He grew up in White City and has lived
in his current home for 18 years.

               Council Member Little asked if Mr. Huntzinger if he is willing to complete the
necessary training that is required.

               Mr. Huntzinger stated yes, he will attend all required trainings.


                                                1
DATE           THURSDAY                               MAY                                5, 2022

               Council Member Little stated he wants to appoint individuals that have pride in
the community and will continue to preserve it. He does not want individuals that want to change
the community into something else. There is some hesitancy to meet in person, the last meeting
was held electronically. He asked Mr. Huntzinger if he is willing to meet in person.

              Mr. Huntzinger stated yes, he is willing to meet in person.

              Paul Ashton asked Mr. Huntzinger if he is a registered voter.

              Mr. Huntzinger stated yes, he is a registered voter.

              There were no additional applicants present.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
              The Business Meeting was closed.

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                                         Public Meeting

White City Metro Township Financial Report

              Dave Sanderson, Financial Manager, presented the White City Metro Township
Financial Report. The report is up to date through March 31, 2022. Twenty-five percent of the
year has passed with fourteen percent of the budget being spent.

              Council Member Price, seconded by Council Member Perry, moved to accept the
White City Metro Township Financial Report. The motion passed unanimously.

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Unified Fire Authority (UFA)

               Captain Ken Aldridge stated construction at station 251 in Eagle Mountain is
underway, station 125 in Midvale City is delayed due to supply chain issues. Fire recruit camp 55
is wrapping up and they will graduate on May 19, 2022, at the Jordan Applied Technology Center.
Zach Robinson was chosen to fill the Assistant Chief position.

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Unified Police Department (UPD)

                 Detective Jeff Fenton stated stolen vehicles and traffic cases are currently the
high crimes. Drug Take Back Day brought in 94 lbs. of medication. The Citizen Police Academy
will be held this fall.


                                               2
DATE           THURSDAY                                MAY                                 5, 2022


               Chief Randy Thomas stated he has learned from other officers about some
insufficiencies with the way calls from other emergency services departments are being
communicated with UPD. He is looking at ways to fix the issues so officers can look up calls for
service and arrive to the incident sooner.

               Council Member Perry asked if there has been any resolution with the Dimple
Dell fires.

              Chief Thomas stated Unified Fire Authority (UFA) is looking into it. It was a one-
day issue, and he believes the fires were started by kids.

            Council Member Price stated she attended the UPD 101 training last month and
recommends everyone attend. The training explained how UPD functions and how the funding
works.

               Mayor Flint stated she sent the Council an overview of the UPD 101 training.
There will be a one-on-one meeting with White City Metro Township Council and UPD to discuss
the finances on May 17, 2022, from 2:30 pm to 4:00 pm.

               Paul Ashton stated the Council has not seen an incident report in a while.

              Chief Thomas stated the reports are not done until about the 10th of the month.
As soon as he gets the report, he sends it out.

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Public Comments

                Leonard Peterson stated there is a house on Carnation Drive that is flying an
offensive flag and he would like to know if anything can be done to get it taken down.

               Paul Ashton stated no, it is the flag owners first amendment right to display it.

                Mr. Peterson stated someone is going to get hurt at the crosswalk at Alta View
Elementary on Larkspur. The crossing guard was nearly hit from someone running the stop sign.
The police are never there to enforce traffic during school hours. He also asked if there is going
to be a cost to residents for Google Fiber.

               Council Member Perry stated only if a resident chooses to connect to Google
Fiber.

               Mr. Peterson asked if there were going to be any water restrictions.

               Mayor Flint stated Mr. Peterson will need to contact the water district to get that
information.


                                                3
DATE             THURSDAY                             MAY                                 5, 2022

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Council Action

Minutes

               Council Member Perry, seconded by Council Member Price, moved to accept the
minutes of the White City Metro Township Council meeting held on March 31, 2022. The motion
passed unanimously.

               Council Member Cardenaz, seconded by Council Member Price, moved to accept
the minutes of the White City Metro Township Council meeting held on April 7, 2022. The motion
passed unanimously.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Resolution No. 2022-05-01

               Rori Andreason stated the White City Metro Township Planning Commission has
three vacancies: one alternate and two full-time positions. She has received applications from the
following individuals interested in serving: Stephanie Solte, Howard Van Horn, Tyler Huish,
Weston Millen, Chris Huntzinger, and Gene Wilson.

               Council Member Little moved to appoint Chris Huntzinger as a full-time Planning
Commissioner and defer the other appointments until the Council has the opportunity to hear from
the other applicants. The motion failed due to a lack of a second.

                 Council Member Price recommended appointing Weston Millen.

               Council Member Little stated he has concerns with appointing Mr. Millen. In
pervious Planning Commission and Steering Committee meetings, he has expressed concerns
about homes being 50 years old, crumbling, and needing to replace them. From that standpoint,
Mr. Millen’s goal is to change the community and he does not support that. During the last
meeting, Mr. Millen declared COVID was rampant and is an extreme risk to the public and there
was some hesitancy to hold meetings in person. However, when COVID numbers were
exceptionally high, the Planning Commission had an open house and a Walk White City meeting
in person. There are consistency issues.

               Mayor Flint stated the Planning Commission should reflect what the Metro
Township is doing. Meetings cannot be closed off to the public and she has a problem with people
not getting together and doing business.

              Council Member Little stated as the chairperson of the Planning Commission,
Mr. Millen has made the Planning Commission less transparent than what it should be. Just
because someone currently sits on the Planning Commission, does not mean they should
automatically be reappointed. Mr. Millen is a new applicant like everyone else and the best
applicant should be chosen.

                                                4
DATE          THURSDAY                              MAY                               5, 2022


              Council Member Little, seconded by Council Member Price, moved to approve
Resolution 2022-05-01, appointing Chris Huntzinger to the White City Metro Township Planning
Commission as a full-time Commissioner. The motion passed unanimously.

             Council Member Little, seconded by Council Member Cardenaz, moved to approve
Resolution 2022-05-01, appointing Gene Wilson to the White City Metro Township Planning
Commission as a full-time Commissioner. The motion passed unanimously.

              Council Member Perry, seconded by Council Member Price, moved to approve
Resolution 2022-05-01, appointing Weston Millen to the White City Metro Township Planning
Commission as an alternate commissioner. The motion passed 4 to 1, showing that Council
Member Little voted in opposition.

             Council Member Little stated the ordinance says there can be up to two alternate
commissioners; therefore, the Council does not need to appoint two.

             Paul Ashton stated the Council can request new applications and defer the
remaining appointment.

             Council Member Cardenaz, seconded by Council Member Perry, moved to defer
the appointment of one alternate commissioner. The motion passed unanimously.

RESOLUTION NO. 2022-05-01                                                  Date: May 5, 2022

       A RESOLUTION OF THE WHITE CITY METRO COUNCIL APPROVING THE
       APPOINTMENT OF CHRIS HUNTZINGER AND GENE WILSON AS FULL-TIME
       PLANNING COMMISSION MEMBERS AND WESTON MILLEN AS AN
       ALTERNATE MEMBER OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION FOR THREE-YEAR
       TERMS ENDING FEBRUARY 28, 2025

                                         RECITALS

       A. The White City Metro Township ("White City") is a Municipality pursuant to Utah Code
          §§ 10-2a-401 et seq.

       B. Pursuant to Ordinance 17-06-02, Planning Commission Members are appointed by
          the Metro Township Council to serve three-year terms;

       C. On this date, the White City Metro Council desires to appoint Chris Huntzinger and
          Gene Wilson as Full-Time Planning Commission Members and Weston Millen as an
          Alternate Member of the Planning Commission with terms ending February 28, 2025.

                                       RESOLUTION

      THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the White City Metro Township Council, the Council
approves the appointment of Chris Huntzinger and Gene Wilson as Full-Time Planning

                                              5
DATE            THURSDAY                                MAY                                  5, 2022

Commission Members and Weston Millen as an Alternate Member of the Planning Commission
with terms ending February 28, 2025.

        APPROVED AND ADOPTED in the White City Metro Township, Salt Lake County, Utah
this 5th day of May 2022.

                                                      By: /s/ PAULINA F. FLINT
                                                          Mayor
ATTEST

/s/ SHERRIE SWENSEN
Salt Lake County Clerk
Metro Township Clerk/Recorder

                                  −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Ordinance No. 2022-05-02 – Agreement with Questar Gas Company d/b/a Dominion Energy Utah

              The Council reviewed the following Resolution approving a non-exclusive
franchise agreement with Questar Gas Company D/B/A/ Dominion Energy Utah:

RESOLUTION NO. 2022-05-02                                                         Date: May 5, 2022

       A RESOLUTION OF THE WHITE CITY METRO COUNCIL APPROVING A NON-
       EXCLUSIVE FRANCHISE AGREEMENT WITH QUESTAR GAS COMPANY
       D/B/A/ DOMINION ENERGY UTAH FOR THE CONSTRUCTION, OPERATION,
       AND MAINTENANCE OF A NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM WITHIN
       THE WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP, STATE OF UTAH.

      WHEREAS, the White City Metro Township ("White City") is a Municipality pursuant to
Utah Code §§ 10-2a-401 et seq.

      WHEREAS, Questar Gas Company d/b/a Dominion Energy Utah, a Utah corporation,
(“Dominion Energy”), is a regulated public utility that provides natural gas distribution service; and

        WHEREAS, Dominion Energy desires to construct, maintain, and operate a natural gas
distribution system within the White City Metro Township (“White City” or “Metro Township”); and

       WHEREAS, providing a natural gas distribution system requires the installation, operation,
and maintenance of pipelines and other gas transmission appurtenances to be located within or
near the public rights-of-way; and

        WHEREAS, White City, acting pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-8-21, has the authority
to regulate natural gas distribution system facilities within its public rights-of-way and to grant to
Dominion Energy a general utility easement for the use thereof; and




                                                  6
DATE           THURSDAY                               MAY                                5, 2022

        WHEREAS, the White City Metro Township Council has determined that it is in the best
interest of the Metro Township’s citizens to grant a nonexclusive franchise to Dominion Energy to
use the roads and streets within the Metro Township for such purpose; and

       WHEREAS, the White City Metro Township desires to set forth the terms and conditions
by which Dominion Energy will use its public rights-of-way; and

       WHEREAS, the White City Metro Township Council desires to enter into a Non-Exclusive
Franchise Agreement with Questar Gas d/b/a/ Dominion Energy Utah for the Construction,
Operation, and Maintenance of a Natural Gas Distribution System with the White City Metro
Township.

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the White City Metro Township Council as
follows:

       SECTION 1. The White City Metro Township Council hereby authorizes the Mayor to sign
the aforementioned Non-Exclusive Franchise Agreement with Questar Gas d/b/a Dominion
Energy Utah for the Construction, Operation, and Maintenance of a Natural Gas Distribution
System within the White City Metro Township.

        SECTION 2. This Resolution shall take effect immediately.

        APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the White Metro Township Council this 5th day of May,
2022.

                                                    By: /s/ PAULINA F. FLINT
                                                        Mayor
ATTEST

/s/ SHERRIE SWENSEN
Salt Lake County Clerk
Metro Township Clerk/Recorder

              Council Member Little, seconded by Council Member Perry, moved to adopt
Resolution 2022-05-02. The motion passed unanimously.

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Council Reports

Unified Fire Authority (UFA) & Unified Fire Service Area (UFSA)

                Council Member Perry stated the budget process is underway with the various
departments presenting its budgets to the Board. A 7.5 percent increase is being considered to
provide for a cost-of-living increase and to maintain a competitive wage. The Finance Committee
will review the budget and then present it before the Board this month for a tentative approval.


                                               7
DATE            THURSDAY                                MAY                                  5, 2022

                                  −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Unified Police Department (UPD) & Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area (SLVLESA)

               Mayor Flint stated UPD held a UPD 101 training. Detective Ben Pender received
the Attorney General’s Award for Distinguished Service in Community Policing. Detectives Johnny
Ngo, Jared Angell, and Ryan Stocking were presented awards from the DEA Narcotics Task
Force. The Board is considering a five percent cost-of-living increase for all civilian positions. The
White City Metro Township Council has the opportunity to have a one-on-one meeting with UPD
to discuss funding. It will be held on May 17, 2022, from 2:30 pm – 4:00 pm at the Sheriff’s Office
building. UPD may come to the Council and ask for additional ARPA funds.

                                  −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
South Salt Lake Valley Mosquito Abatement District

                  Council Member Price stated the District has done maintenance on trapping gear,
presenting at schools, improving the GIS program, and is currently hiring for the season. Kassie
Draper, Finance and Human Resource Manager, South Salt Lake Valley Mosquito Abatement
District, is a big part of the organization. She received her masters and has taken a position with
South Jordan; however, she will stay on part-time to handle the finances. Other employees will
split her other duties.

                                  −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD)

             Mayor Flint stated the Board needs to consider making changes to the interlocal
agreement between Salt Lake County, MSD, and the Metro Townships.

                                  −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District (WFWRD)

               Council Member Cardenaz stated Chuck Orencole was awarded the 2022 Public
Sector Driver of the Year by the National Waste and Recycling Association. The process of
moving to a local district will be completed after the Lt. Governor signs the certificate. The Board
approved giving Pam Roberts, Executive Director, WFWRD, the authority to approve refunds up
to four years back without Board approval. Residents will soon be able to reserve a dumpster for
the annual cleanup. A postcard will be delivered to every White City resident.

                                  −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Salt Lake County Animal Services




                                                  8
DATE           THURSDAY                              MAY                                5, 2022

               Council Member Little stated the Board received the annual Open and Public
Meetings Act training and discussed the annual report. Animal Services will send people to South
East Township Days.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Semi-Annual Plant Swap

              Council Member Price stated the semi-annual plant swap will be held on May 14,
2022, from 9:00 am to 2:00 pm.

                                ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                                ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                                ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
              THERE BEING NO FURTHER BUSINESS to come before the Council at this time,
the meeting was adjourned.


                                    ___________________________________________
                                    MAYOR
                                    WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL


SHERRIE SWENSEN
METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK



By ________________________________
       Deputy Clerk


                                ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

                                ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

                                ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦




                                               9
