COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING AGENDA
July 16, 2025
Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission will convene on Wednesday, July 16,
2025, at Cottonwood Heights City Hall (2277 E. Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121) for its Work
Session and Business Session meetings.

   1. Work Session – 5:00 p.m. – City Council Work Room
   2. Business Session – 6:00 p.m. – City Council Chambers

Both sessions will also be broadcast electronically on the city’s YouTube channel at
https://www.youtube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams.
Please see the reverse side of this agenda for instructions on how to make public comment.

5:00 p.m. Work Session
       1.0 Review Business Session Agenda
       The commission will review and discuss agenda items.

       2.0 Adjourn

6:00 p.m. Business Session
       1.0 Welcome and Acknowledgements
              1.1 Ex parte communications or conflicts of interest to disclose

       2.0 General Public Comment
       This is an opportunity for individuals to make general public comments that do not relate to any projects
       scheduled for public hearing under the “Business Items” section of this agenda. Please see the Public
       Comment Policy on the reverse side of this agenda for more information.

       3.0 Business Items
              3.1 Project ZMA-25-003
              A public hearing and potential recommendation to City Council on a request by Nathan Anderson for
              a General Plan Amendment (Land Use Map Amendment) and a Zoning Map Amendment (Rezone) on
              a parcel located at 3425 E. Bengal Blvd. Both applications have been combined into one. Both are
              required to rezone the property from NC (Neighborhood Commercial) to RM (Multifamily
              Residential), which the applicant is seeking to do.

               3.2 Project CUP-25-011 (PUD-25-001)
               A public hearing and potential action on a request by Brent Johnson on behalf of the Giverny Master
               Association (the Giverny Community HOA) to amend the Giverny Community Planned Unit
               Development’s rules regarding some accessory structure setbacks. Although this application was
               noticed as PUD-25-001, the application type is technically a conditional use permit. As such, the
               application has been renamed CUP-25-011.

       4.0 Consent Agenda
              4.1 Approval of June 4, 2025 Planning Commission Minutes

       5.0 Adjourn
       Next Planning Commission Meeting: August 6, 2025
Public Comment
Individuals may provide public comment verbally or via writing.

Verbal comments are accepted in person at the 6:00 p.m. Business Session, but not at the 5:00 p.m. Work
Session. At the Business Session, public comment may be given during two intervals:
   1. General Public Comment Period – An opportunity for general comments not relating to specific projects on
       the meeting agenda.
   2. Specific Project Public Hearings – An opportunity for comments relating to specific projects on the meeting
       agenda which were noticed as public hearings.

Please note that verbal comments must be provided by attending the meetings in-person. Verbal comments
cannot be provided via the electronic broadcast of planning commission meetings on the city’s YouTube channel.

Verbal comment periods are an opportunity for individuals to share comments as they see fit but are not an
opportunity for “question and answer” dialogue. Questions should be directed to city staff at
planning@ch.utah.gov. Verbal comments provided during the public comment period will be limited to three
minutes per individual, or five minutes per a spokesperson who has been asked by a group that is present to
summarize their concerns.

Alternatively, written comments may be submitted to staff via email at planning@ch.utah.gov. For written
comments to be entered into the record and distributed to the planning commission prior to the meeting, they
must be submitted to staff by 12:00 p.m. MST on Tuesday, July 15, 2025, the day prior to the meeting.
Comments received after this deadline will be distributed to the planning commission after the meeting.

Meeting Procedures
Items will generally be considered in the following order: 1. Chair introduction of item, 2. Staff presentation, 3.
Applicant presentation, if applicable, 4. Chair opens public hearing, if applicable, 5. Chair closes public hearing, if
applicable, 6. Planning commission deliberation, 7. Planning commission motion and vote on item.

Applications may be tabled if additional information is needed in order to act on the item; or if the planning
commission feels there are unresolved issues that may need further attention before the commission is ready
to make a motion. No agenda item will begin after 9:00 pm without a unanimous vote of the commission. The
commission may carry over agenda items, scheduled late in the evening and not heard, to the next regularly
scheduled meeting.

Notice of Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, individuals needing special accommodations or
assistance during this meeting shall notify the City Recorder at (801) 944-7015 at least 24 hours prior to the
meeting. TDD number is (801) 270-2425 or call Relay Utah at #711.

Confirmation of Public Notice
On Friday, July 11, 2025, a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the front foyer of
the Cottonwood Heights City Offices. The agenda was also posted on the City’s website at
www.cottonwoodheights.utah.gov and the Utah public notice website at http://pmn.utah.gov.

DATED THIS 11th DAY OF JULY, ATTEST: TIFFANY JANZEN, CITY RECORDER
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION
STAFF REPORT
July 16, 2025

Summary
Project Number:
ZMA-25-003

Subject Property:
3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

Action Requested:
Zoning Map Amend. and
General Plan Amend.

Applicant:
Nathan Anderson
(Brighton Lofts LLC)

Recommendation:
APPROVE

Context
Property Owner:
Brighton Lofts LLC

Acreage:
0.48 acres




Request
The owner of 3425 E. Bengal Blvd. has applied for amendments to the city’s General Plan Land Use
Map (future vision for general use type on a parcel) and Zoning Map (current codified standards that
regulate use and development of a parcel) for the property, as follows:

   •   Current land use designation – Neighborhood Commercial
   •   Proposed land use designation – Residential Medium Density

   •   Current zoning designation – NC (Neighborhood Commercial)
   •   Proposed zoning designation – RM (Multifamily Residential)
                                      Planning Commission –July 16, 2025
                                Project ZMA-25-003 – 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

CURRENT LAND USE DESIGNATION: Neighborhood Commercial




PROPOSED LAND USE DESIGNATION: Residential Medium Density




                                                               Page 2 of 7
                                       Planning Commission –July 16, 2025
                                 Project ZMA-25-003 – 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

CURRENT ZONING DESIGNATION: NC (Neighborhood Commercial)




 PROPOSED ZONING DESIGNATION: RM (Residential Multifamily)




                                                                Page 3 of 7
                                                              Planning Commission –July 16, 2025
                                                        Project ZMA-25-003 – 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

Background
This property and its primary structure formerly operated as a Wells Fargo bank branch prior to
closure in the early 2020s. The property is zoned NC (Neighborhood Commercial) and has
maintained this designation for as long as staff records indicate. Staff has concluded it is likely that
both the zoning and use of the property as a bank branch were carried over from Salt Lake County
prior to city incorporation in 2005.

In late 2024, an application was applied for to develop live-work units on the property, as was
permitted within the NC zone at the time as a conditional use (CUP-24-019). Concerns over
potential negative impacts such as waste pickup and parking led the Planning Commission to
continue the item to subsequent meetings until these concerns could be addressed by the
applicant. The applicant later withdrew the application. Simultaneously, the lack of clear
regulations and definitions regarding “live-work units” led City Council to issue a moratorium on all
live-work applications within the city. This did not apply to CUP-24-019 prior to the application’s
withdrawal. The moratorium was recently lifted following the adoption of zoning text amendments
to address the concerns.

Following this, a new conditional use permit application was applied for to operate a church on the
property (CUP-25-004). Following staff review, and just prior to the June 4, 2025 meeting, the
application was withdrawn.

The owner of the property and applicant of the first conditional use permit, Nathan Anderson, is
now applying for a zoning map amendment (rezone) to change the property’s zoning designation
from NC (Neighborhood Commercial) to RM (Multifamily Residential) (see page 3). As city code
requires any rezone to be aligned with the Land Use Map within the city’s General Plan, a general
plan amendment has also been applied for the change the land use designation of the property
from ‘Neighborhood Commercial’ to ‘Residential Medium Density’ (see page 2).

Although review of any potential development is not within the scope of this application, the
applicant has provided context for the request within their narrative: The applicant wishes to
develop six townhome units facing Oakshadow Cir, perpendicular to Bengal Blvd. Conceptual
designs provided by the applicant can be found attached to this staff report. The RM zone allows
attached single-family dwellings (townhomes) as a permitted use, not requiring conditional use
approval.

______________________________________________________________
Analysis & Procedure
Staff Analysis

Staff finds that the request to amend the land use map from ‘Neighborhood Commercial’ to
‘Residential Medium Density’ and the zoning map from NC (Neighborhood Commercial) to RM
(Residential Multi-Family) is generally compatible with the city’s long-range vision and goals for the
area for the following reasons:

    •   Single-family dwellings (attached) are permitted uses in the RM zone. Other than home
        occupations, no commercial or office uses are permitted in the proposed zone without a
        conditional use permit.
                                                                                             Page 4 of 7
                                                            Planning Commission –July 16, 2025
                                                      Project ZMA-25-003 – 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

   •   The designated land use of many nearby properties along Bengal Blvd and the surrounding
       vicinity is also Residential Medium Density.
   •   While no property in the vicinity is zoned RM, many properties are zoned R-2-8, another
       multifamily zone. These nearby properties contain a similar density of dwelling units to
       what is being proposed here.
   •   This property is the only parcel on the north side of Bengal Blvd. in the vicinity zoned and
       designated as Neighborhood Commercial.
   •   The NC zone allows residential uses under the ‘Neighborhood Mixed Use’ category within
       allowed conditional uses. A development of this type would likely entail a more intensive
       land use for the property, with a similar number of residential units, compared to what the
       applicant wishes to eventually develop.
   •   While detailed development plans are not a part of this proposal, RM zoning standards
       would still apply to any development applied for on the property, such as minimum lot
       sizes, minimum lot widths, setbacks, maximum height, lot coverage, and open space
       requirements (see attached §19.34 RM zoning code).



Procedure

Zoning map amendments and general plan amendments are legislative actions, meaning that the
Planning Commission’s authority is to take public comment, discuss the merits of the proposal,
and make recommendations to the City Council. The City Council is the final approval authority for
this application.

Chapter 19.90.070 of the Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code details the procedure for general
plan amendments:

       19.90.070 General Plan Amendment; Procedure
       The city council may amend the general plan. A proposed amendment to the general plan
       shall not be made or become effective unless it is first presented to the planning
       commission and, before making its recommendation concerning the proposed
       amendment, the planning commission holds a public hearing on the proposed
       amendment preceded by all required public notice. The planning commission thereafter
       shall forward the proposed amendment and its recommendation concerning it to the city
       council.


Chapter 19.90.010 of the Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code details the procedure for zoning
map amendments:

       19.90.10 Amendment Procedure.
       A. The city council may, from time to time, amend the number, shape, boundaries or area
          of any zone or any regulation within any zone or any other provisions of the zoning
          ordinance. The city council may not make any amendment authorized by this
          section unless the amendment is proposed by the planning commission or was
          first submitted to the planning commission for its recommendation. To become
          effective, zoning amendment applications which have received the positive

                                                                                         Page 5 of 7
                                                            Planning Commission –July 16, 2025
                                                      Project ZMA-25-003 – 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

            recommendation of the planning commission must first receive the favorable vote
            of not less than a majority of the entire membership of the city council.
         B. Zoning amendment applications which receive a recommendation of denial by the
            planning commission shall thereafter be considered by the city council…. The city
            council, after review of the recommendation by the planning commission, may affirm,
            reverse, alter or remand for further review and consideration any recommendations
            made by the planning commission.


Further, Chapter 19.90 establishes minimum timelines that require at least one year after Council
disapproval of a rezone and/or general plan amendment application before an application can be
made for the same zone classification again (19.90.050 / 19.90.100).

The subject application is compliant with the above codified requirements.



Noticing
Notices were posted and mailed at least 10 days prior to the meeting. Individual letters were mails
to property owners within 1000’ feet of the subject property, and a public notice sign was posted on
the property. Returned notices and a list of all noticed properties have been kept by staff.



Findings
Findings of fact include:
   1. A public hearing is being held in accordance with local and state requirements;
   2. The proposed zoning designation is compatible with the surrounding developed area, and
      with the underlying land use designation of the subject property;
   3. The public will not be materially injured by the proposed amendment, and staff has
      determined there is good cause for the amendment.



Recommendation & Model Motions
Based on the findings and analysis presented herein, staff recommends that the Planning
Commission forward a recommendation of approval of project ZMA-25-003 to the City Council
(Note – two separate motions and votes will be required – one for the proposed land use map
amendment, and one for the proposed zone map amendment. Both projects have the same project
reference number).
Approval
I move to recommend approval of project ZMA-25-003 to the City Council based on the findings and
recommendations listed in the staff report dated July 16, 2025…

   •     List any additional findings or recommendations for approval…
Denial

                                                                                         Page 6 of 7
                                                          Planning Commission –July 16, 2025
                                                    Project ZMA-25-003 – 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

I move to recommend denial of project ZMA-25-003 to the City Council based on the following
findings:
   •   List findings for denial…


ATTACHMENTS

   •   Applicant’s Narrative
   •   Townhome Development Conceptual Designs
   •   RM (Residential Multifamily) Zoning Code




                                                                                      Page 7 of 7
7/11/25, 6:59 PM                                                              Print Preview


 19.34 RM - Residential Multi-Family Zone
 19.34.010 Purpose Of Chapter
 19.34.020 Permitted Uses
 19.34.030 Conditional Uses
 19.34.040 Minimum Lot Size
 19.34.050 Minimum Lot Width
 19.34.060 Setbacks/Yard Requirements
 19.34.070 Maximum Height Of Structures
 19.34.080 Maximum Lot Coverage
 19.34.090 Open Space Requirement
 19.34.100 Master Development Plan Required

 19.34.010 Purpose Of Chapter

 The purpose of the RM zone is to provide areas in the city for high-density residential development.

 19.34.020 Permitted Uses

 Permitted uses in the RM zone are as follows:

       A. Single-family dwellings, attached or detached;
       B. Accessory buildings customary to multi-family and single-family residential buildings; and
       C. Home occupations.

 19.34.030 Conditional Uses

 Conditional uses in the RM zone are as follows:

       A. Bed and breakfast;
       B. Churches;
       C. Day care/pre-school, as allowed by the applicable accessory regulations in Chapter 19.76,
          “Supplementary and Qualifying Regulations”;
       D. Dwelling group, provided that;
                   1. The parcel of ground on which the dwelling group (as defined in Chapter 19.04,
                      “Definitions”) is to be erected shall have an area equal to the aggregate of the minimum
                      lot areas otherwise required in the zone for the number of individual dwelling structures
                      in the group.
                   2. The distance between principal buildings shall be equal to the total side yards required in
                      the zone. The distance between principal buildings and the nearest perimeter lot line
                      shall be at least 15 feet. The distance between any building and a public street shall be
                      at least the front yard required in the zoning district, except on corner lots the side yard
                      which faces on a public street shall be at least 20 feet.
                   3. Access shall be provided by a private street or right-of-way from a public street; such
                      private street or right-of-way shall be at least 20 feet wide for one or two rear dwelling
                      units and at least 30 feet wide for three or more dwelling units.
                   4. A minimum of two parking spaces shall be provided for each dwelling unit. Parking
                      spaces and vehicular maneuvering areas shall meet city standards.

https://cottonwoodheights.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=19.34_RM_-_Residential_Multi-Family_Zone   1/4
7/11/25, 6:59 PM                                                              Print Preview

                   5. Every dwelling structure in the dwelling group shall be within 60 feet of an access
                      roadway or drive.
                   6. The development plan shall provide a buffer landscaped area along all property lines
                      and decorative landscaping adjacent to the buildings in appropriate locations. Solid
                      visual fences shall be provided along all interior property lines unless the planning
                      commission approves otherwise.

       E. Golf course;
       F. Hospital;
       G. Hotel;
       H. Lodging house;
        I. Multiple unit dwellings, either apartments or condominiums;
       J. Nursing home;
       K. Offices, professions and general business;
       L. Planned unit development;
      M. Private parks and recreational grounds;
       N. Public and quasi-public use;
       O. Radio and/or television tower;
       P. Temporary structures, as allowed by the applicable accessory regulations in Chapter 19.76,
          “Supplementary and Qualifying Regulations”;
       Q. Two-family dwellings;
       R. Utility stations and lines, as allowed by the applicable accessory regulations in Chapter 19.76,
          “Supplementary and Qualifying Regulations”; and
       S. Public schools.

 19.34.040 Minimum Lot Size

 The minimum lot size in the RM zone is 10,000 square feet for each single-family or two-family
 dwelling, with 2,000 extra square feet for each additional unit in a building with more than one unit.

 19.34.050 Minimum Lot Width

 The minimum lot width in the RM zone is 65 feet measured 30 feet from the front lot line.

 19.34.060 Setbacks/Yard Requirements

       A. Setbacks/yard requirements are intended to provide a description of the required space
          between buildings and property lines. Primary buildings shall maintain a minimum distance from
          property lines as follows:

           Front: 30 feet.
           Sides: On interior lots, a total of at least 25 feet between the two side yards, with no side yard of
           less than ten feet. On corner lots, at least 30 feet on the street side and at least 10 feet on the
           interior side.


https://cottonwoodheights.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=19.34_RM_-_Residential_Multi-Family_Zone   2/4
7/11/25, 6:59 PM                                                              Print Preview

           Rear: 30 feet.

       B. Accessory buildings in the RM zone shall maintain a minimum distance from property lines as
          follows:

           Front: Accessory buildings, excluding garages, shall maintain a setback of at least six feet from
           primary buildings in the rear yard for the particular property.
           Sides: Five feet, excluding garages, on interior lots; 20 feet on street side of corner lots.
           Rear: Five feet, excluding garages, on interior lots; 20 feet on corner lots. Attached garages
           shall conform to the rear yard requirements of main buildings. Detached garages shall conform
           to the rear yard requirements of accessory buildings, provided that the garage is in the rear yard
           and at least six feet away from the main building.
           Garages: The minimum side yard for a private garage shall be eight feet, except that private
           garages and other accessory buildings located in the rear yard and at least six feet away from
           the primary building shall maintain a minimum side yard of not less than five feet.

 HISTORY
 Amended by Ord. 429 on 1/7/2025

 19.34.070 Maximum Height Of Structures

       A. For uses where the slope of the original ground surface is greater than 15%, or if a slope
          stability hazard is present on site, the maximum structure height shall be 30 feet.
       B. All other properties shall maintain a maximum structure height of 35 feet.
       C. Accessory Buildings.

           No accessory building shall exceed 20 feet in height. For each foot of height over 14 feet,
           accessory buildings shall be set back from property lines an additional foot from the minimum
           setback to allow a maximum height of 20 feet.

 HISTORY
 Amended by Ord. 412 on 4/9/2024

 19.34.080 Maximum Lot Coverage

 The maximum lot coverage in the RM zone is 50%, including all structures, except portions of those
 properties also located in the Sensitive Lands Overlay Zone, for which the maximum lot coverage shall
 be 30% including all structures and impervious surfaces.

 HISTORY
 Amended by Ord. 412 on 4/9/2024

 19.34.090 Open Space Requirement

 The minimum open space requirement for developments over two acres in the RM zone is 15%.

 19.34.100 Master Development Plan Required

 Any development of land in the RM zone shall be subject to the requirements of a master development
 plan approved by the planning commission.




https://cottonwoodheights.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=19.34_RM_-_Residential_Multi-Family_Zone   3/4
7/11/25, 6:59 PM                                                              Print Preview




https://cottonwoodheights.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=19.34_RM_-_Residential_Multi-Family_Zone   4/4
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION
STAFF REPORT
July 16, 2025

Summary
Project Number:
CUP-25-011 (PUD-25-001)

Subject Properties:
Giverny Community
(Approximately 3505 E.
Giverny Pkwy.)

Action Requested:
Conditional Use Approval to
amend the Planned Unit
Development

Applicant:
Brent Johnson (on behalf of
the Giverny HOA)

Recommendation:
APPROVE
                                                    Satellite view of subject property




Background
The applicant is requesting to amend the original Planned Unit Development (PUD) approval for the
Giverny Community (PUD-14-001). The intent of this amendment is to incorporate new rules
regarding accessory buildings (also referred to as accessory structures) into the PUD. The original
approval letter for the Giverny PUD (attached here) states the following condition of approval:

       5. The setbacks and lots standards are approved as proposed, and/or amended by the
       Planning Commission.

Both the original proposal document and most recently recorded plat only reference lot setbacks
for primary structure (homes), not accessory buildings. Additionally, staff could not locate any
reference to accessory building standards in any other documents relating to the original PUD
approval (PUD-14-001), or the most recent plat amendment (SUB-17-004).

Given the absence of unique accessory building standards approved as part of the Giverny PUD,
any accessory structure constructed on a lot located within Giverny must meet the accessory
structure standards defined in code, specifically those located in the 19.26 R-1-8 zone, and in
19.76.030.B.
                                                             Planning Commission – July 16, 2025
                                                        Project CUP-25-011 – Giverny Community

According to the applicant’s narrative, many property owners within the Giverny Community have
constructed accessory structures under the impression that because the buildings are less than
200 square feet large, they did not need a building permit (correctly so), and did not need to meet
accessory structure setbacks, including a 6’ minimum distance from the primary structure
(incorrectly so). The applicant’s narrative elaborates on this and includes example photographs of
noncomplying structures.

______________________________________________________________
Request
Due to this confusion, as well as the fact that the Giverny Subdivision features uniquely small lot
sizes, the applicant is requesting the PUD amendment (a conditional use permit application) to
remedy this issue. The applicant wishes to modify accessory building standards specifically for the
Giverny PUD. This proposal would only apply to open-air type structures, defined as Gazebos and
Pergolas within city code (19.76.030). This proposal would not apply to other accessory structure
types, such as sheds, detached garages, swimming pools and hot tubs, playgrounds, elevated
decks, etc.

The applicant is proposing the following deviations from city code:

 City Standards                                     Proposed Modification
 Minimum 3’ setback from side and rear              Minimum 5’ setback from side and rear
 property lines                                     property lines
 Minimum 6’ distance from primary structure         No minimum distance from primary structure


Although the applicant’s narrative has additional modifications listed, staff is only aware of the
above-listed modifications deviating from code standards.

______________________________________________________________
Analysis
Zoning and Land Use

Staff finds the applicant’s request for an amendment to the Giverny PUD to be reasonable, given
the reduced lot standards found within the Giverny Subdivision that complicate accessory building
construction on lots within the community. Additionally the proposed modifications would reduce
visual impact on neighboring properties, given that a slightly increased minimum setback would be
required for accessory buildings compared to the standard city code.

Because city code lists planned unit developments as a conditional use in the R-1-8 zone, staff has
processed this PUD amendment application as a conditional use permit. As a conditional use, this
application is entitled to approval unless reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to mitigate
negative impacts of the use. The following excerpt from Utah State Code further describes this:


                                                                                           Page 2 of 5
                                                               Planning Commission – July 16, 2025
                                                          Project CUP-25-011 – Giverny Community

        i) A land use authority shall approve a conditional use if reasonable conditions are
           proposed, or can be imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental
           effects of the proposed use in accordance with applicable standards. (10-9a-507-2)


        (ii) The requirement described in Subsection (2)(a)(i) to reasonably mitigate anticipated
             detrimental effects of the proposed conditional use does not require elimination of the
             detrimental effects. (10-9a-507-2)

Building Code

At the time of publication of this staff report, staff is awaiting feedback from the Building Official
James Short, regarding any implications the proposal would have on building code. If additional
implications are stated by the Building Official, staff will post a supplementary memo relaying
information. If no implications are found, staff will address this in the public meeting on July 16,
2025.



Conditional Use Permit Procedure and Authority
The Planning Commission is the approval authority for amendments to approved plans and
specifications for a PUD, as referenced in 19.78.160 and 19.78.170:

    19.78.160.B. Amendments to approved plans and specifications for a PUD shall be approved
    by the planning commission and a new set of approved plans will be issued by staff to address
    any approved amendments.

    19.78.170 Scope Of Planning Commission Action; Appeals

    1. It is the intent of this chapter that site and building plans for a PUD shall be prepared by a
       designer or team of designers having professional competence in urban planning as
       proposed in the application. The planning commission shall require the applicant to engage
       such a qualified designer or design team.
    2. The planning commission may deny an application for a PUD.
    3. In approving an application, the planning commission may attach such conditions as it
       deems necessary to secure compliance with the purposes set forth in this title and to
       mitigate any impacts that a PUD may impose on the surrounding people and properties.
    4. The action of the planning commission may be appealed to the city’s appeals hearing
       officer or other appeal authority under Chapter 19.92 of this title.

The details of such authority on conditional use approval of the project are included below:

        Following any public hearing, the planning commission shall consider the application in a
        public meeting. The staff’s written recommendation shall be considered, among other
        factors. The planning commission may either approve the proposed conditional use;
        approve the proposed conditional use subject to specific modifications or conditions;


                                                                                              Page 3 of 5
                                                               Planning Commission – July 16, 2025
                                                          Project CUP-25-011 – Giverny Community

        postpone decision pending consideration of additional information to be submitted by the
        applicant; or deny the proposed conditional use. (19.84.080)

        A conditional use shall be approved if reasonable conditions are proposed, or can be
        imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use in
        accordance with applicable standards. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of
        a proposed conditional use cannot be substantially mitigated by the proposal or the
        imposition of reasonable conditions to achieve compliance with applicable standards, the
        conditional use may be denied. (19.84.020)



Noticing
Per code requirement, notices were posted and mailed at least 10 days prior to the meeting.
Individual letters were sent to property owners within 300 feet of the subject property. The notice
was also posted to the city website and bulletin boards at City Hall.

The application was noticed under the file number PUD-25-001. Staff has since updated the
application to reflect what it believes to be the correct file type for this application – a conditional
use permit.



Findings
Findings of fact include:
    1. That the proposed use is one of the conditional uses specifically listed in the zoning district
        in which it is to be located;
    2. That such use will not, under the circumstances of the particular case, be detrimental to the
        health, safety, comfort, order or general welfare of persons residing or working in the
        vicinity;
    3. That the use will comply with the intent, spirit, and regulations of this title and will be
        compatible with and implement the planning goals and objectives of the city;
    4. That the use will be harmonious with the neighboring uses in the zoning district in which it is
        to be located;
    5. That nuisances which would not be in harmony with the neighboring uses, will be abated by
        the conditions imposed;
    6. That protection of property values, the environment, and the tax base for the city will be
        assured;
    7. That the use will comply with the city’s general plan;
    8. That some form of a guaranty assuring compliance to all imposed conditions will be
        imposed on the applicant or owner;
    9. That the internal circulation system of the proposed development is properly designed;
    10. That existing and proposed utility services will be adequate for the proposed development;
    11. That appropriate buffering will be provided to protect adjacent land uses from light, noise
        and visual impacts;

                                                                                              Page 4 of 5
                                                           Planning Commission – July 16, 2025
                                                      Project CUP-25-011 – Giverny Community

   12. That architecture and building materials are consistent with the development and
       surrounding uses, and otherwise compatible with the city’s general plan, subdivision
       ordinance, land use ordinance, and any applicable design standards;
   13. That landscaping appropriate for the scale of the development and surrounding uses will be
       installed in compliance with all applicable ordinances;
   14. That the proposed use preserves historical, architectural and environmental features of the
       property; and
   15. That operating and delivery hours will compatible with adjacent land uses.
   16. The foregoing approval standards shall be subject to any contrary requirements of Utah
       Code Ann. § 10-9a-507, as amended.



Recommendation & Model Motions
Based on the findings and analysis presented herein, staff recommends approval of project CUP-
25-011
Approval
I move to approve project CUP-25-011 based on the findings and recommendations listed in the
staff report dated July 16, 2025…

   •     List any additional findings or recommendations for approval…
Denial
I move to deny project CUP-25-011 based on the following findings:

   •     List findings for denial…




Attachments
   1. Project Narrative
   2. Original Approval Letter (pg. 1)




                                                                                       Page 5 of 5
Modification of Accessory Structure Setbacks for the Planned Unit
Development Approval for Giverny (PUD-14-001)

July 18, 2025, Planning Commission Hearing

Project Narrative

When a typical R1-8 lot is approved (8000 SF Lot) it would have building setbacks of 8’
and 12’ on the side yards, 25’ in the front, and 20’ in the rear.

When the Giverny project was approved it was done so with smaller homesites that had
smaller building setbacks. In this community, the lots average around 5000 SF, and the
side setbacks are 5’ on both sides, 18’ in the front, and either 10’ or 15’ in the rear.

When an owner at Giverny proposes to build an accessory building on their lot it creates
some challenges in the community since the lots are much smaller. As can be seen from
the diagram below (approved City guidelines for this type of structure) this is based on
what would be a typical 8000 SF lot. These larger lots can much more easily
accommodate this type of structure and can maintain the proper setbacks.




Many of the Owners in Giverny have built Accessory Buildings and did not understand
the requirements. They believed that since their structure was under 120 SF they did not
need a permit, nor that they needed to follow any setback guidelines. However, based
on the current guidelines almost all these structures are not in conformance and would
need to be modified or torn down.

As such, the primary purpose of this submittal is to request some modified setbacks for
Accessory Buildings for the Giverny Community which will allow many of the existing
structures to remain and to create a standard for new structures moving forward.
                        Modiﬁcation of Giverny Accessory Building Setbacks: June 4, 2025

Proposed Design Guidelines

The structures that we would propose this modification for are all more open-air type
structures (no walls) with three or four sides being open. The roof is either an open-air
pergola with roof slats, or, some have a full roof on them. None of these structures are
attached to the home or are habitable spaces. Examples include the following:

Detached Patio Cover with Covered Roof




Detached Open Air Pergola and Detached Covered Pergola




                                           2
                      Modiﬁcation of Giverny Accessory Building Setbacks: June 4, 2025

Detached Open Air Pergola




Detached Open Air Pergola with Bar Seating and Gas BBQ




                                         3
                         Modiﬁcation of Giverny Accessory Building Setbacks: June 4, 2025

Modification to Setbacks of Accessory Building Standards


We are proposing to maintain the current city standards regarding Accessory Buildings
with some modifications to the setbacks as shown below. The same standard would
apply to all lots within the Giverny community.

   Accessory Building Standards: The following city standards will remain.

   •   Needs to be a minimum of 5' away from any rear and side fences.
   •   The structure cannot be more than 25% of the surface area of the rear yard which
       is measured from the back of the home.
   •   It cannot exceed 20' in height, and the setbacks increase by 1' for each foot over
       14' in height. In other words, if you had a 17' tall structure you would need to be
       8' from the fences. (5' standard + 3' for height over 14 feet)

   Modified Accessory Building Standards: The following city standards will be modified.

   •   The structure can be located within 6’ of the home but not attached.
   •   The posts of the structure cannot be located closer than 5’ to the rear or side
       setback line as this would trigger the requirement for a one-hour fire rated wall
       assembly.
   •   The roof of the structure may overhang the posts by up to 36”.
   •   The exception would be that the structure posts can be up to 3’ away if opening is
       8’ or less in height so fire rated wall (based upon a 75% coverage of opening from
       the ground up) can be at a height not to exceed 6’. By doing this the fire rated wall
       will be at or near the height of the adjacent owner’s fence. Typical details are
       shown below. This example has a 7’ tall wall:




                                             4
                        Modiﬁcation of Giverny Accessory Building Setbacks: June 4, 2025

   These types of structures automatically require the need for a building permit. These
   are as follows:

   •   ANY structure that is attached to the house. If a structure is attached to the home
       that it MUST be within the building setback lines. For lots in Giverny this means
       either 10' (Lots 301-351 only) or 15' (all other Lots) from the back and at least 5'
       from the side fences.
   •   Any structure that has electricity in it.
   •   Structures that are over 120 SF in total size.
   •   Structures that are over 11' in height.


Based on the proposed changes the modified setbacks allowed would be based on the
changes shown in red below. Minimum setbacks for the Giverny lots were also shown in
red as well.




                                            5
                        Modiﬁcation of Giverny Accessory Building Setbacks: June 4, 2025



Conclusion

Since the Giverny community was approved with smaller setbacks it makes sense that
the community should also have smaller setbacks for Accessory Buildings. Our request
to make this change is to allow owners to have the ability to add these types of
structures while maintaining fire protections under the building code.

It is understood by the Giverny owners that any new structures submitted will need to be
reviewed by the Giverny HOA, and, if required, a permit is issued by the City. Any
existing structures that were not issued a building permit will need to be modified to be
in conformance with these revised standards, or, if that is not possible they will need to
be removed.




                                            6
Mr. Richard Cook
Giverny, LLC
8280 Etienne Way
Sandy, Utah 84093

RE: Preliminary Approval of PUD‐14‐001 Giverny PUD

Mr. Cook,

This letter is to memorialize that the Planning Commission of the City of Cottonwood Heights
granted preliminary approval of project PUD‐14‐001 at its meeting held on January 7, 2015. The
approval allows for a 165‐lot Planned Unit Development, Giverny PUD, on the property located
at 9160 Wasatch Boulevard. Per Zoning Ordinance chapter 19.78 (Planned Unit Developments),
final approval shall be based on approval of construction drawings and specifications and
satisfaction of all conditions of approval. Conditions of final approval are as follows:

1.     Approval of this project constitutes a conditional use permit.
2.     Approval of this project constitutes approval of the planned unit development
       subdivision.
3.     The developer shall establish acceptable design guidelines, in a formalized manner, to
       be approved by staff as part of the final plat approval of the PUD.
4.     The proposed PUD shall be owned and maintained by a single or partnership Limited
       Liability Company, corporate entity, or jointly filed by all owners of land.
5.     The setbacks and lots standards are approved as proposed, and/or amended by the
       Planning Commission.
6.     Lots covered by at least fifty percent (50%) of the Sensitive Lands Overlay Zone shall
       have a height limitation of thirty (30) feet.
7.     In addition to the proposed sidewalk system, the developer shall provide enhanced
       intersection treatments, such as textured paving, to highlight pedestrian crossings, as
       agreeable and approved by the city engineer.
8.     Gates are allowed in accordance with the provisions of Title 12 and Title 14 of the
       Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code.
9.     Fencing is limited to rear (and side yards for corner lots), and the perimeter, unless
       approved by staff for mitigating purposes.
10.    Fences within the project shall not exceed six (6) feet in height.
11.    Only one monument entry sign shall be allowed. The sign shall be limited to six (6) feet
       in height and no more than thirty‐six (36) square feet in size. The sign shall be setback at
       least three (3) feet from the adjacent right‐of‐way.
12.    All easements shall be duly mitigated to the satisfaction of staff and/or their assigns
       prior to the recordation of the plat(s).
13.    Staff shall review and approve proposed fencing and gates. (per ARC 6‐12‐14).
14.    A six (6) foot solid visual barrier fence shall be constructed around the Smith and McGee
       properties, as agreeable with the property owners. The fence material shall be either
       masonry or cedar, and shall be decided by the property owners.
15.    All Sensitive Lands Areas shall be shown on Final Plat.
16.    Lots within the Sensitive Lands Overlay Zone shall have a minimum 3,500 square foot
       buildable area and a minimum dimension of fifty (50) feet.
                  MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
                    PLANNING COMMISSION WORK MEETING

                                  Wednesday, June 4, 2025
                                          5:00 p.m.
                                 2277 East Bengal Boulevard
                                  City Council Work Room

ATTENDANCE

Members Present:      Chair Lucy Anderson, Vice-Chair Sean Steinman, Commissioner Mike
                      Shelton, Commissioner Dan Poulson, Commissioner Dan Mills,
                      Commissioner Mike Smith, Commissioner Garry Barnes, Commissioner
                      Rusty Lugo-Alternate

Staff Present:        Community and Economic Development Director, Michael Johnson;
                      Deputy City Recorder, Cienna Brummel; Planner III, Ian Harris; System
                      Administrator, Alex Earl

WORK SESSION

Chair Lucy Anderson called the Planning Commission Work Session to order at 5:00 p.m.

1.0    Review Business Session Agenda.

Chair Anderson reviewed the Business Session Agenda and indicated that the Business Items
included a Zoning Text Amendment to modify language within Chapter 19.37, Neighborhood
Commercial (“NC”) Zone, as well as Project GPA-25-002, the Moderate-Income Housing report.
She then welcomed Commissioner Rusty Lugo, who was appointed by the City Council as the
alternate Commissioner.

Commissioner Lugo stated that he grew up in West Jordan. When his uncle purchased a property
on Dolphin Way in Cottonwood Heights, he hoped that maybe he could live in the City one day
as well. He now lives across the street. He thanked Commissioner Steinman for introducing him
to Mr. Johnson and indicated that he was happy to be on the Planning Commission and ready to
learn.

Chair Anderson from District 3 introduced herself and indicated that she was in her second term.
Commissioner Poulson stated that he was in his first term and was also still learning.
Commissioner Barnes stated that he was also relatively new to the Planning Commission. It was
his fifth meeting. Commissioner Shelton from District 1 indicated that he was in his first term.
Commissioner Smith from District 1 stated that he was an at-large member and was also in his
first term. Commissioner Mills indicated that he was in his second term and stated that he loves
the Planning Commission and the City. He thinks they make a strong attempt at keeping things
apolitical and doing what is best for the residents of Cottonwood Heights. Even though they come
from districts, under Chair Anderson’s leadership they strive to look at everything through that


Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 06/04/25                                     1
lens and do what is best for the City’s future. He was very grateful for the City Staff.
Commissioner Steinman stated that he was there to support the City in any way he could.

System Administrator, Alex Earl; Deputy City Recorder, Cienna Brummel; Planner III, Ian Harris;
and Community and Economic Development Director, Michael Johnson introduced themselves as
well.

Mr. Johnson reported that Item 3.1, CUP-25-004, was withdrawn by the Applicant after the
Agenda was published. He then reviewed Agenda Item 3.2, Project ZTA-25-001 regarding the
Live/Work Zoning Text Amendment and noted that no additional changes had been made since
the last Planning Commission meeting on the item.

In February 2025, the City Council issued a moratorium on Live/Work Conditional Use Permit
(“CUP”) applications within the NC Zone. The moratorium is valid for up to 180 days or
approximately six months to provide the City with time to better define regulations related to the
Live/Work Land Use. Staff then worked to create an ordinance that better defined the use. The
Planning Commission provided feedback on the original draft, which was incorporated into the
current version.

The ordinance only applies within the NC Zone, which is the only zone that specifically lists
Live/Work as an allowed Conditional Use type. Staff cleaned up various uses that could have
allowed a developer to bypass the intent of the zone to provide a neighborhood commercial
element.

Concerns had been expressed that it may be used as a tool to build entirely residential
developments, which would not meet the intent and definition of the NC Zone. As such, the
following predominantly residential Conditional Uses were removed from the ordinance:

   •   Bed and Breakfast
   •   Home occupations
   •   Home preschools
   •   Planned unit development
   •   Residential facilities for elderly persons
   •   Live/Work spaces

The term “Mixed Residential housing” was replaced with “Neighborhood Mixed-Use.” That
would allow a residential component, but only as a part of a Neighborhood Mixed-Use
development. The following definition of the term was added to the Definitions section of the
ordinance:

       A single building containing more than one type of Land Use, at least one of which is
       residential, or a single development of more than one building and use, one of which is
       residential, where the different types of Land Uses are in close proximity, planned as a
       unified complementary whole, and functionally integrated to the use of shared vehicular
       and pedestrian access and parking areas.



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 06/04/25                                       2
Commissioner Shelton recommended replacing “at least one of which is residential” with “at least
one of which is commercial,” as he believed that would be more in keeping with the intent of the
zone. Mr. Johnson recommended changing it to read “at least one of which may be residential.”
All other uses in the NC Zone will be non-residential. The definition indicates that if someone
wants to add a residential element, Neighborhood Mixed-Use is the only way to do so, and the
residential must be in addition to a commercial use. After discussion, it was decided that the
language would be changed to read “at least one of which must be non-residential and one of which
may be residential.”

The following draft standards for Neighborhood Mixed-Use would be codified within the Chapter:
   • All NC development standards pertaining to building height, setbacks, landscaping,
       coverage, etc., shall apply.
   • The mix of uses shall be consistent with the Permitted and Conditional Uses listed in the
       Neighborhood Commercial Chapter.
   • The non-residential portion of a Neighborhood Mixed-Use project shall constitute a
       minimum of 25% of the total gross floor area of the entire unit or project square footage.
   • At least 50% of the unit or project frontage at ground level along a public right-of-way
       shall be dedicated to the non-residential portion of the project.

In response to a question from Commissioner Shelton, Mr. Johnson clarified that residential use
would only be mentioned in the definition of Neighborhood Mixed-Use, but it could be further
clarified. The draft standards would ensure that there is a good balance between commercial and
residential uses and that the commercial use is prominently featured and accessible from the public
right-of-way.

Commissioner Barnes asked if the ordinance was consistent with similar cities’ standards. Mr.
Johnson indicated that Staff reviewed various cities’ definitions of Live/Work and Mixed-Use
prior to drafting the ordinance and other cities have the same general standards. Staff felt that
requiring more than 25% commercial presence may not be supported by the commercial market
but ensuring that it is focused on the public right-of-way would make the most of that presence.

In response to a question from Commissioner Shelton, Mr. Johnson clarified that public right-of-
way frontage is required, so a private road would not meet the standard. The project that initiated
the amendment was on a corner lot and had frontage on two public rights-of-way. The previous
configuration likely would not have worked with the new definition.

Mr. Johnson reported that Staff recommended the following additional modifications to the
ordinance that did not directly relate to the moratorium:

   •   Eliminating the minimum lot size, width, and depth requirements and allowing other
       standards to dictate the actual lot size to support a specific development.
   •   Modifying the height requirements to specify a maximum height of 35 feet and removing
       the reference to two stories to make it consistent with other zones.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 06/04/25                                        3
Commissioner Mills stated that the amended ordinance would help facilitate shared parking, as in
his opinion commercial buildings can be more creative with shared parking. It would also allow
the zone to be utilized in areas of the City that are well-suited to that type of development.

Mr. Johnson reported that home occupations are allowed in all residential zones and proposed that
clarification to that effect be added to the Neighborhood Mixed-Use definition.

Commissioner Steinman stated that the ordinance now met the intent of the NC Zone and thanked
Staff for their efforts in drafting it. Chair Anderson agreed.

Mr. Johnson asked the Commission if there were any obvious Conditional Uses that should be
moved to Permitted Uses in the NC Zone. He noted that Conditional Uses require Planning
Commission approval, whereas Permitted Uses do not. However, the NC Zone is unique in that it
has no Permitted Uses. In response to a question from Commissioner Steinman, Mr. Johnson
reported that they do not receive many calls on the matter because there are not many projects in
the NC Zone. Prior to the Live/Work proposal, the most frequently requested uses were dental
and medical offices. In response to a follow-up question, he reported that Staff would have to
research the matter before recommending Permitted Uses.

Chair Anderson stated that she believed they would need a more detailed discussion on Permitted
Uses. She also wanted to ensure that they provided the City Council with what it had requested
regarding the Live/Work use. She thanked Staff for the outstanding job on the amendment as it
provided a lot of clarification.

In response to a question from Commissioner Shelton, it was noted that Neighborhood Mixed-Use
was listed as a Conditional Use in the zone.

Mr. Johnson reported that one public comment was received after the deadline, which he would
forward to the Commission. He informed the individual that they would have the opportunity to
provide their input at a July City Council meeting.

Item 3.3 would be Project GPA-25-002, the Moderate-Income Housing Report, a compliance plan
that must be submitted by every city in Utah. Every five years, cities are required to update their
plan. In other years, they submit annual reports. The state legislature modifies the legislation each
year.

Mr. Johnson reported that 2025 is year five for Cottonwood Heights, so the plan must be updated.
There are many parameters regarding how the plan must be written, specific language that must
be used, and content, so the report is considerably more technical in nature than most City master
plans.

Utah State Code Section 10-9a-408 requires every municipality to adopt a moderate-income
housing plan and submit progress reports. The Cottonwood Heights Moderate-Income Housing
Report must be adopted and submitted no later than August 1, 2025.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 06/04/25                                          4
The state provides 26 housing strategies, and cities must select a minimum of three options and
create detailed implementation plans for each option. Cities that adopt five strategies are eligible
for priority road funding from the Transportation Investment Fund. Staff identified five strategies
for adoption in 2025.

In response to a question from Commissioner Steinman, Mr. Johnson clarified that the Hillside
area does not qualify as a high-transit rail zone, but it is possible that the Gravel Pit will qualify
due to the bus hub being constructed there. That would require an updated plan. In response to a
follow-up question, Mr. Johnson reported that the AMI data was based on several different data
sets, including community profile and census data.

Affordable housing is housing for which total household costs are no more than 30% of gross
household income. Moderate-income housing is affordable to households that earn 80% or less of
the Area Median Income (“AMI”). In 2024, the AMI in Cottonwood Heights was $116,583. At
that rate, the affordable housing cost would be $2,915 monthly. At 80% AMI or $93,266 per year,
it would be $2,332 per month. Other affordability bands can be targeted, including 50% (low
income) and 30% (very low income) AMI.

In response to a question from Commissioner Smith, Mr. Johnson confirmed that housing costs
are increasing exponentially and the State wants to ensure affordability. The median home value
in Cottonwood Heights is now over $800,000.

Commissioner Steinman asked if there were development opportunities based on state growth.
Mr. Johnson clarified that it is based on state growth, as well as inflationary projections and
Wasatch Front Regional Council ("WFRC") regional master plans. Growth areas in Cottonwood
Heights are primarily limited to the Gravel Pit, Town Center, and some infill opportunities.

Community data was reviewed.
  • City Population: 33,594, which indicates a population decrease of 0.5%
  • Median age: 39.1
      o Salt Lake County median age: 33.8
      o Utah median age: 31.7
  • Percentage of constrained households: 29.3%. This is the percentage of owner-occupied
     households that would not be able to afford a home in present conditions with housing
     costs comprising less than 30% of monthly gross income.
  • Median income:$116,583
  • Median home cost: $770,100 (as of fall 2024)

Commissioner Shelton asked if data on average household size was available. Mr. Johnson stated
that the information was tracked but not included in the Moderate-Income Housing Report. The
average number is 1.8 children per household.

The City’s housing profile was reviewed next.
   • Housing age: Approximately one-half of housing was built between 1960 and 1980 and
       one-quarter was built between 1980 and 2000.



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 06/04/25                                           5
   •   Housing type: Single-family housing makes up 80% of the City’s housing, 15% is multi-
       family, and 2% is twin homes or duplexes.
   •   Owner-occupied homes constitute 71%, with renters at 29%. The percentage of owner-
       occupied homes is slightly higher than the county average. Most multi-family homes are
       owner-occupied.

Mr. Johnson reported that the City has a housing deficit for renters with incomes of 70% AMI or
lower, but a slight surplus of 57 units for renters at 80% AMI. Similarly, a high percentage of
affordable for-sale units are available for higher income ranges, but there is a large gap in
availability at 80% AMI or lower.

Cottonwood Heights’ current defined strategies are:
   • Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, internal or detached accessory
      dwelling units in residential zones.

   •   Zone or rezone for higher density or moderate-income residential development in
       commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit investment corridors, commercial
       centers, or employment centers.

   •   Implement zoning incentives for moderate-income units in new developments.

   •   Demonstrate utilization of a moderate-income housing set aside from a community
       reinvestment agency, redevelopment agency, or community development and renewal
       agency to create or subsidize moderate-income housing.

In response to a question from Commissioner Steinman, Mr. Johnson reported that Canyon Centre
is the only project currently collecting tax increment financing (“TIF”), and that project preceded
the requirement for an affordable housing set aside. If TIF is triggered for the Town Center, an
affordable housing set-aside will be required for that project. The Gravel Pit is also a future
candidate.

Mr. Johnson reported on the City’s recent progress toward its four goals.
   • Two Planned Development Districts (“PDD”) have created deed-restricted affordable
       housing units.
          o ICO: 21 units at 50% AMI
          o Northern Gravel Pit: 15% of total units (approximately 40 units) at 80% AMI
   • Market example: Santa Fe Apartments
          o Of 492 units, 173 are deemed affordable with rents at 50% and 65% AMI
   • Accessory dwelling units (“ADU”) are allowed.
          o Internal ADUs are permitted and require licensing and inspection.
          o Detached ADUs are conditional and require Planning Commission approval.
          o 15 licenses have been issued or are in process.
   • Multiple commercial zones allow for mixed residential housing, including Residential
       Office, Neighborhood Commercial, Mixed Use, PDD, and Form-Based Code.
   • One Community Reinvestment Area (Town Center)



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 06/04/25                                        6
         o The project area budget will require a moderate-income housing set aside when TIF
             is implemented.
         o There are two remaining economic development areas (“EDAs”) that still have
             budgets, some of which could be moved to an affordable housing fund.
         o Potential future creation of Gravel Pit CRA.
   •   Wasatch Choice Vision Plan
         o Future vision for growth and development over time. The most intense
             development is envisioned for the Gravel Pit, the Union Park area, the Town
             Center, and Highland Drive.

In response to a question from Commissioner Steinman, Mr. Johnson stated that the EDAs are the
Union Park Center near 1300 East and the Cottonwood Corporate Center on the eastern edge of
the City. The excess funds cannot be retained indefinitely. Staff was determining how best to
utilize the funds and would recommend that a portion be invested in affordable housing.

For 2025, Staff proposed adding Strategy L: Reduce, waive, or eliminate Impact Fees related to
moderate-income housing.

Implementation measures for the five strategies were reviewed.

Strategy E: ADU allowance
   • Continue to monitor the number of ADU licenses issued each year and promote the City’s
       ADU licensing process.
   • Research other cities’ ADU standards and consider ordinance amendments that streamline
       the process, especially for detached ADUs which have much stricter requirements.
   • Develop a “card file”’ system for ADUs and new homes to provide pre-engineered building
       plans to expedite permit review times and reduce financial barriers.

Strategy F: Allow residential density in commercial areas
   • Multiple commercial zones allow residential use (Residential Office, Neighborhood
       Commercial, Mixed Use, PDD, future Form-Based Code).
           o Two PDD projects are implementing this goal, with a total of 81 deed-restricted
              affordable housing units.
   • Continue tracking the number of moderate-income housing units in developments along
       commercial corridors.
   • Ensure that mixed-use housing options are properly codified, defined, and regulated in
       various non-residential zoning districts.
   • Identify development strategies to utilize private resources, public-private partnerships,
       and other regional programs to implement housing-friendly goals, such as improving
       pedestrian, transit, and active-transportation infrastructure along Fort Union Boulevard.

Strategy H: Zoning incentives for affordable units
   • The PDD Zone achieves this by providing high development flexibility and requiring
       affordable units.
           o 600 units have been constructed or entitled, 81 of which will be deed-restricted
              affordable units.


Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 06/04/25                                     7
          o The same tool is anticipated to be utilized in the future Gravel Pit development.
   •   Continue to track development projects using incentive tools.
   •   Identify local financial incentives for the development of targeted housing types.
          o First Home Investment Zone (“FHIZ”)
          o Home Ownership Promotion Zone (“HOPZ”)
          o TIF
          o CRA
          o Potential fee waivers for compatible development projects.

Strategy P: Moderate-income housing set aside from CRAs
   • All new CRAs require set-asides for investment in moderate-income housing within the
       area or region.
   • Town Center CRA anticipated.
   • Begin the process of establishing TIF collection with the Town Center Project Area.
   • Consider the creation of Gravel Pit CRA by developing plan documents.
   • Formalize a Plan to utilize leftover EDA funds, including a portion of investment in
       regional affordable housing funds.

Strategy L: Waive or reduce Impact Fees for moderate-income housing
   • The City can charge Impact Fees for new development projects.
   • Review Impact Fees with the development community to identify criteria in which fees can
       be reduced or waived to promote incentives for moderate-income housing.
   • Establish attainable goals and objectives based on the Impact Fee review that can be
       integrated and further reported on in the City’s 2026 Moderate-Income Housing Report.

In response to a question from Commissioner Steinman, Mr. Johnson confirmed that the City has
an Impact Fee table, although fees are not currently being charged. Historically, only
Transportation and Stormwater Impact Fees were charged. Cities can also charge Impact Fees for
parks, public safety, police and fire, etc. Large future projects will create an impact on public and
utility infrastructure needs, so the City Council may need to reconsider those fees. There are
specific requirements for Impact Fees, including that the funds must be spent within a certain
amount of time and in a certain qualifying way. A study is conducted prior to the fees being
assessed.

Mr. Johnson provided the following additional recommendations that could be implemented
budget permitting:
   • Establish a neighborhood improvement fund to provide financial assistance to qualifying
       households for maintenance, repairs, and property improvement.
   • Consider expansion of the 50/50 Program to assist with curb, gutter, and sidewalk repairs.
   • Engage with state, federal, private, and nonprofit partners to share in the effort to provide
       affordable housing options within the area.

Commissioner Smith asked if Cottonwood Heights’ setback requirements for detached ADUs were
similar to other communities in the area. Mr. Johnson stated that ADUs are allowed to be the same
size as other detached structures and up to 20 feet in height in certain circumstances. However, a
garage can be built three feet from the property line, but a detached ADU would require the same


Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 06/04/25                                          8
setbacks as a new home: eight to 10 feet from the property lines on the sides and 20 feet in the
rear. Those requirements preclude many properties in the City from having detached ADUs.
Internal ADUs do not carry such restrictions.

Commissioner Steinman asked about prefabricated ADUs. Mr. Johnson stated that manufactured
housing is allowed for both ADUs and primary structures as long as it meets the Building Code.

Chair Anderson thanked Mr. Johnson for the valuable information and indicated that the discussion
could continue during the Business Session.

2.0    Adjourn.

Commissioner Steinman moved to ADJOURN the Work Session. Commissioner Mills seconded
the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Work Session adjourned at 5:58 p.m.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 06/04/25                                      9
                    MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
                     PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS MEETING

                                   Wednesday, June 4, 2025
                                           6:00 p.m.
                                  2277 East Bengal Boulevard
                                    City Council Chambers

Members Present:       Chair Lucy Anderson, Vice-Chair Sean Steinman, Commissioner Mike
                       Shelton, Commissioner Dan Poulson, Commissioner Dan Mills,
                       Commissioner Mike Smith, Commissioner Garry Barnes, Commissioner
                       Rusty Lugo-Alternate

Staff Present:         Community and Economic Development Director, Michael Johnson;
                       Deputy City Recorder, Cienna Brummel; Planner III, Ian Harris; System
                       Administrator, Alex Earl

Public Attendees:      Suzanne Hyland, Michael Carey, Nathan Anderson, Audrey Pines

BUSINESS SESSION

Chair Lucy Anderson called the Planning Commission Business Session to order at 6:03 p.m.

1.0    Welcome and Acknowledgements.

       1.1       Ex Parte Communications or Conflicts of Interest to Disclose.

There were no Ex Parte Communications or Conflicts of Interest disclosed.

2.0    General Public Comment.

There were no public comments.

3.0    Business Items.

       3.1       Project CUP-25-004 - A Public Hearing and Potential Action on a Request by
                 Bento Viana on Behalf of União do Vegetal Church (“UDV”) for a Conditional
                 Use Permit to Operate a Church at a Former Wells Fargo Branch at 3425 East
                 Bengal Boulevard.

Chair Anderson reported that this application was withdrawn.

       3.2       Project ZTA-25-001 - A Public Hearing and Potential Recommendation to
                 City Council on a City-Initiated Zoning Text Amendment to Modify Language
                 within Chapter 19.37 NC – Neighborhood Commercial.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 06/04/25                                   10
Community and Economic Development Director, Michael Johnson presented the Staff Report
and reported that as a result of the moratorium on Live/Work uses in the Neighborhood
Commercial (“NC”) Zone imposed by the City Council in February 2025, the City has up to 180
days to better define the use type. The proposed Zoning Text Amendment would accomplish that
goal. Mr. Johnson then reviewed the changes included in the amendment.

The following codified Conditional Uses would be removed:
   • Bed and breakfast
   • Home occupations
   • Home preschools
   • Planned unit development
   • Residential facilities for elderly persons
   • Live/Work spaces

The Mixed Residential Housing Conditional Use would be replaced with Neighborhood Mixed
Use, which would allow residential housing only as a component of a Neighborhood mixed-use
development application. A definition of the term would be codified, and the following standards
would apply:

   •   Neighborhood Mixed Use projects may include a residential component in addition to at
       least one non-residential use listed in the NC Ordinance.
   •   All development standards pertaining to height, setbacks, landscaping, parking, coverage,
       etc., shall apply.
   •   The mix of uses shall be consistent with the Permitted and Conditional Uses listed in the
       NC Ordinance.
   •   The non-residential portion of a Neighborhood mixed-use project shall constitute at least
       25% of the total gross floor area of the entire unit or project.
   •   At least 50% of the unit or project frontage at ground level along a public right-of-way
       shall be dedicated to the non-residential portion of the project.

The following clarifications were also proposed:
   • Removal of minimum lot size, width, and depth requirements in favor of allowing other
       requirements to dictate what can be built on a property.
   • Removal of the reference to “two stories” in the height requirements and leaving the 35-
       foot maximum height.

Mr. Johnson reported that the changes were based on conversations with and feedback from the
Planning Commission and City Council. As a legislative item, the Planning Commission would
make a recommendation to the City Council, which would then take final action on the proposed
amendment.

Chair Anderson opened the public hearing.

Nathan Anderson stated that it was difficult to hear that his property development rights might be
diminished. They purchased a property that they thought had great development rights and
potential. He understands that the City does not like Live/Work. He had a meeting with Mayor


Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 06/04/25                                      11
Weichers and Council Member Birrell who told him that he would be fine if he followed the
ordinance. They also indicated that it would be nice to have moderately priced housing and an
owner-user community. He had been working to accomplish that goal and had provided
information to that effect to Mr. Johnson. However, commercial real estate brokers indicated that
the property does not work because it is not a prime location. He asked that the Planning
Commission table its decision to provide time for him to submit his application so it could be
grandfathered in. Alternatively, he asked that they consider striking the requirement for a
commercial use to occupy 25% of the gross area and suggested that non-prime locations be allowed
to have as little as 16% commercial. They have a hairstylist who is interested in the eastern unit,
but they cannot compete with other office space because there is too much vacant space.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Steinman stated that Staff put a lot of time and effort into researching adjacent
communities, understanding definitions, and creating the Neighborhood Commercial component.
There have been several iterations of the Zoning Text Amendment. His comfort level with the
current text was high. Chair Anderson agreed.

Commissioner Mills stated that the Neighborhood Commercial areas throughout the City are
unique, and he appreciated that Staff tried to craft an ordinance that would meet many different
needs. He believed that the current ordinance would meet those needs. He appreciated Staff’s
efforts to return to the intent of the zone.

Commissioner Steinman stated that the purpose of the NC Zone was to provide a nice transitional
buffer between commercial and residential. There are not many NC areas in Cottonwood Heights,
so they have to be very thoughtful about how those parcels are developed and ensure that the intent
is represented by the code.

Commissioner Shelton expressed sympathy for the property owner who purchased a property for
which the City had unclear expectations. He believed that the City’s action would harm a
landowner who made a purchase based on that lack of clarity. The clarification may be difficult,
and he expressed his personal sympathy if that lack of clarity caused him financial harm.

Commissioner Steinman moved to forward a recommendation of APPROVAL to the City
Council for a City-Initiated Zoning Text Amendment to Modify Language within Chapter 19.37
NC – Neighborhood Commercial, Project ZTA-25-001, based on the Findings and
Recommendations listed in the Staff Report dated June 4, 2025. Commissioner Mills seconded
the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner Mills-Yes; Commissioner Steinman-Yes;
Commissioner Poulson-Yes; Commissioner Barnes-Yes; Commissioner Shelton-Yes;
Commissioner Smith-Yes; Chair Anderson-Yes. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

Chair Anderson apologized for not introducing New Alternate Commissioner, Rusty Lugo, and
thanked Commissioner Lugo for joining the Planning Commission. She clarified that as an
alternate, Commissioner Lugo only votes if a member is absent.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 06/04/25                                       12
       3.3     Project GPA-25-002 – Moderate-Income Housing Report – A Public Hearing
               and Potential Recommendation to City Council on the Draft Moderate-
               Income Housing Report, as Required by Utah State Code.

Mr. Johnson presented the Moderate-Income Housing Report and indicated that the item was
discussed in more detail during the Work Session.

Utah State Code requires that all cities adopt and report annually on a Moderate-Income Housing
Plan. Cities are required to choose from 26 specific options to provide opportunities for moderate-
income housing. At least three strategies must be adopted, but cities that adopt five are eligible
for priority road funding. The report must be submitted prior to August 1 each year. 2025 is
Cottonwood Heights’ fifth year, so the City is required to adopt a new plan by that date.
Background information on affordable housing and moderate income, as well as community
statistics, were provided during the Work Session.

Five strategies were proposed, the first four of which were carried over from the previous report.

   1. Strategy E: Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, internal or detached
      accessory dwelling units (“ADU”) in residential zones.

   2. Strategy F: Zone or rezone for higher-density or moderate-income residential
      development in commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit investment corridors,
      commercial centers, or employment centers.

   3. Strategy H: Implement zoning incentives for moderate-income units in new
      developments.

   4. Strategy P: Demonstrate utilization of a moderate-income housing set aside from a
      community reinvestment agency, redevelopment agency, or community development and
      renewal agency to create or subsidize moderate-income housing.

   5. Strategy L: Reduce, waive, or eliminate Impact Fees related to moderate-income housing.

Mr. Johnson briefly reviewed the implementation measures for each strategy.

Strategy E
   • Continue to report on, and ensure that public information is available for, ADUs.
   • Analyze ADU standards to determine if a better balance can be found between respecting
       privacy and property rights and creating an easier process for detached ADUs.
   • Develop a card file system of pre-engineered plans for ADUs and potentially small homes.

Strategy F
   • Allow residential density in commercial areas. Multifamily housing is already allowed
       within all commercial zones in the City, with one exception.
   • Two Planned Development Districts (“PDD”) are entitled with over 600 residential units,
       approximately 80 of which are deed-restricted to affordable housing.


Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 06/04/25                                       13
   •   Ensure that development standards incentivize housing within commercial developments.
   •   Ensure that decisions regarding infrastructure, right-of-way design, active transportation,
       etc. meet the transportation needs of residents of moderate-income housing.

Strategy H
   • PDDs allow high development flexibility in exchange for meeting certain requirements
       including deed-restricted affordable units.
   • Continue tracking development projects using these tools.
   • Identify local financial options to further invest in affordable housing types.

Strategy P
   • All new community reinvestment areas (“CRA”) require set-asides for investment in
       moderate-income housing. CRAs are created at the beginning of a new development, and
       the property tax value can be reinvested in the project area.
   • A Town Center CRA is anticipated, as well as a future Gravel Pit CRA.
   • Formalize a plan to utilize leftover economic development area (“EDA”) funds that were
       inherited from Salt Lake County, including investing a portion of those funds in regional
       affordable housing.

Strategy L
   • The City can charge Impact Fees for new development projects. Historically, Impact Fees
       have only been assessed for transportation and stormwater. Other cities have various
       Impact Fees for public safety, parks, etc., which have to be validated in a formal study
       before collection can begin. Staff recommended that if the City pursued Impact Fees for
       new growth areas like the Gravel Pit, they include options for waiver or reduction of fees
       related to affordable housing units.

Other recommendations (budget permitting):
   • Establish a neighborhood improvement fund to provide assistance to qualifying income-
      constrained households for maintenance, repairs, and property improvements.
   • Consider expanding the 50/50 Program to assist with curb, gutter, and sidewalk repairs.
   • Engage with state, federal, private, and nonprofit partners to share in the effort to provide
      affordable housing options in the area.

Chair Anderson opened the public hearing.

Mike Carey stated that he is the chair of the Salt Lake County Republican Party and was elected
due to his 25 years of experience as a general contractor. His wife is an engineer and developer.
He expressed concern about some of the recommendations. He lived in Washington, D.C. for 11
years before moving to the area, and Montgomery County, Maryland implemented some of the
same strategies when he was on their Department of Permitting Services Advisory Committee. He
believes that ADUs are a useful tool, but they will not solve the housing problem. His experience
was that in lower-income neighborhoods, ADUs became boarding houses. Unless a cap is placed
on the number of units allowed in the City and have very specific setback requirements for
detached units, there could be multiple residences on single-family lots. He was also against
removing Impact Fees. The City already does not collect Impact Fees on schools, and that is part


Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 06/04/25                                      14
of the reason property taxes are so high. Elimination of Impact Fees will not change sales prices
or development costs. Rather, it will add to the bottom line for developers like him. He is working
with Steven Waldrip and Senator Cullimore on these issues. The Utah First Homes Act allows for
first-time homebuyer assistance on new construction only because the data says that the state needs
more starter homes. However, Envision Utah, the Wasatch Front Regional Council ("WFRC"),
and other nonprofit entities that are pushing for densification are using data that stopped being
measured in the second quarter of 2022. He indicated that all current reports cite a Kem C. Gardner
Policy Institute report from September 2023.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

In response to a question from Commissioner Steinman, Mr. Johnson clarified that the Moderate-
Income Housing Plan does not require a set number of units at a specific percentage of adjusted
median income (“AMI”). The City’s PDD Ordinance, however, requires a range of between 10%
and 15% affordable housing units. If units are provided at 50% AMI, a smaller percentage of total
units have to be deed-restricted. At 80% AMI, a larger percentage is required.

In response to a follow-up question, Mr. Johnson reported that the City has the ability to charge
Impact Fees, but it currently does not because there is not a lot of new growth. Upcoming projects
will create new growth and new impacts, so they may need to be considered in the future.

Mr. Johnson provided an example of the benefits of the PDD Ordinance. The underlying Land
Use vision for the Gravel Pit is Mixed Use, which allows a maximum height of 35 feet and a
density of 35 units per acre. By going through the PDD process, the developer could build to a
maximum height of 20 stories with no maximum density. That flexibility has tradeoffs, including
the provision for affordable units. The City is using its PDD Ordinance as an example of
compliance for the report, but no deed restrictions are mandated in the State’s strategies.

Commissioner Steinman asked at what point Impact Fees would be imposed. Mr. Johnson
reported that the City would need to conduct a study to determine if there are projects that qualify
for Impact Fees. In response to Commissioner Steinman’s follow-up question, Mr. Johnson
reported that a study would need to be conducted related to the specific Impact Fee the City
Council was interested in considering. The formal study would then be presented publicly and
approved, and the Impact Fees could be implemented in a way that complies with the study.
Commissioner Steinman stated that it was his understanding the report must be updated every three
years. Mr. Johnson did not have that information available. Commissioner Steinman stated that
the City may want to consider implementing Impact Fees.

Mr. Johnson explained that Impact Fees cannot be used for maintenance of existing facilities.
Additionally, if the funds are not spent within a certain timeframe, they must be returned. Most
of the City’s infill development already has an impact, and redevelopment of a property does not
create a new impact unless it is a drastic increase in development intensity. Commissioner
Steinman stated that in some instances, there could be a substantial impact. Mr. Johnson reiterated
that studies would need to be conducted that support reimposing Impact Fees.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 06/04/25                                        15
Commissioner Mills stated that they could be underestimating the impact of projects like the Town
Center and Gravel Pit. He agreed that they should revisit the Impact Fee discussion, possibly along
with form-based code.

Commissioner Steinman stated that the City needs to be careful with redevelopments like the
Gravel Pit and Hillside Plaza because they are in CRA zones. The City wants to promote
affordability within those spaces, so they have to be careful when adding additional fees. However,
that is the City Council’s purview. He does not believe fees should be associated with form-based
code. He envisioned an Impact Fee table based on density and true impact. He believes Impact
Fees are a small part of the moderate-income housing discussion, and he was comfortable with
Staff’s modifications to the report.

In response to a question from Commissioner Steinman, Mr. Johnson stated that no grants or bonds
are made available through compliance with the moderate-income housing reporting requirement.
However, by implementing five strategies, the City may have priority access to a certain
transportation investment fund.

Commissioner Mills clarified that he was not advocating for removing Impact Fees from the list.
He believes they need to watch closely as density increases in adjacent municipalities and
infrastructure is impacted. Developers are not held responsible for anything off their property. He
is grateful that the matter was brought up, and he believes the Commission should be ready to have
that discussion in the future.

Mr. Johnson clarified that none of the selected strategies will solve the housing problem as it does
not have an easy solution. They are taking steps to try to ease the burden.

Commissioner Smith stated that it seemed like the State was imposing the requirements on the
City, and he was unsure of their motivation other than ensuring that people keep moving to Utah.
Densification is happening all around, and he did not know what could be done to slow it down.
Affordable housing is a good cause, but he believes the other side of the equation should also be
considered by the State.

Commissioner Steinman stated that by the definition of “affordable,” an affordable home in
Cottonwood Heights would have a $3,000 mortgage payment, which is very high. He believes
“attainable” is a better word. He hopes his children will be able to attain housing in Cottonwood
Heights, but it is hard to make that high of a salary in the City. Densification is fascinating because
growth and progress are hard to see, but it can be done thoughtfully. He asked how they can
change the mindset from affordable to attainable housing and noted that it is a statewide issue.
There was a 40% increase in property values between 2020 and 2022. To Mr. Carey’s point, the
data sets need to be more current, and they also need to consider where the market will be in the
future.

Commissioner Smith asked what the community’s obligation is to provide affordable housing. He
believes there is some responsibility, but he also believes that Beverly Hills would say that they
do not have that same responsibility.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 06/04/25                                           16
Commissioner Steinman stated that they needed to consider public service employees. For
example, in Summit County, a 60% AMI project is not affordable. Nurses and teachers need
places to live. They need to think long-term, and they are taking some of the necessary steps to
do so. Chair Anderson agreed that they are taking those steps in a thoughtful way.

Commissioner Steinman stated that more study needs to be done on ADUs before the ordinance is
changed, but he believed the City Council would be focusing heavily on that issue. His concern
was that they could be turned into short-term rentals. However, they also needed to consider
whether ADUs were an opportunity for thoughtful density.

In response to a question from Commissioner Mills, Mr. Johnson reported that the City had
received 15 to 20 applications for ADUs since the ordinance was passed. That number includes
both internal and external ADUs. Commissioner Mills stated that there was no reason to panic
over such a small number. They would not want a large number of ADUs, but he was confident
that they could allow more without creating chaos. He believes that thoughtful discussion between
the Planning Commission and City Council will result in solutions that they were just scratching
the surface of. He was very supportive of all five recommendations.

Commissioner Mills moved to forward a recommendation of APPROVAL to the City Council
for Project GPA-25-002, an updated Moderate-Income Housing Plan and Report pursuant to
Utah State Code reporting requirements. Commissioner Smith seconded the motion. Vote on
Motion: Commissioner Smith-Yes; Commissioner Shelton-Yes; Commissioner Barnes-Yes;
Commissioner Poulson-Yes; Commissioner Steinman-Yes; Commissioner Mills-Yes; Chair
Anderson-Yes. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

4.0    Consent Agenda

       4.1    Approval of Planning Commission Meeting Minutes from May 7, 2025.

Commissioner Steinman moved to APPROVE the Consent Agenda. Commissioner Poulson
seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

5.0    Adjourn.

Commissioner Smith moved to ADJOURN the Business Session. Commissioner Shelton
seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Business Session adjourned at approximately 6:48 p.m.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 06/04/25                                     17
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the
Cottonwood Heights City Planning Commission Work Session and Business Session held on
Wednesday, June 4, 2025.


Teri Forbes
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: _____________________________




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 06/04/25                               18
