COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING AGENDA
August 6, 2025
Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights Hearing Officer will convene on Wednesday August 6, at
Cottonwood Heights City Hall (2277 E. Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121) for an Administrative
Hearing Meeting.

The meeting will begin at 12:00 p.m. in the City Hall Room 5 (Council Chambers).

12:00 p.m. ADMINISTRAIVE HEARING MEETING

        1.0 Business Items
                1.1 Project CUP-25-010
                Request from Laura Durrant for conditional use approval of a home-based psychotherapy office
                for individual adult clients at 7871 S. Chadbourne Dr., Unit A.

                1.2 Project CUP-25-012
                Request from Cameron and Jane Archibald for conditional use approval for the construction of
                an eight-foot fence along the south and north property lines at 7621 S. Primaverii Ct.


        2.0 Consent Agenda
                2.1 Approval of Administrative Hearing Officer Minutes from August 6, 2025

                (The Administrative Hearing Officer will approve the minutes of the August 6, 2025 meeting after
                the following process is met. The City Recorder will prepare the minutes and email them to the
                Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer will have five days to review the minutes and provide any
                changes to the Recorder. If, after five days there are no changes, the minutes will stand
                approved. If there are changes, the process will be followed until the changes are made and the
                hearing officer is in agreement, at which time the minutes shall be deemed approved.)

        3.0 Adjourn


Meeting Procedures
Items will generally be considered in the following order:
    1. Staff Presentation
    2. Applicant Presentation
    3. Open Public Hearing (if item has been noticed for public hearing). Each speaker during the public hearing
       will be limited to three minutes.
    4. Close Public Hearing
    5. Administrative Hearing Officer Deliberation
    6. Administrative Hearing Officer Decision

Administrative Hearing applications may be tabled if: 1) Additional information is needed in order to act on the
item; OR 2) The Hearing Officer feels there are unresolved issues that may need further attention before the
Officer is ready to make a decision. The Hearing Officer may carry over agenda items to the next regularly
scheduled meeting.
Submission of Written Public Comment
Written comments on any agenda item should be received by the Cottonwood Heights Community and
Economic Development Department no later than 12:00 p.m. MST on Tuesday, August 5, 2025, a day before the
meeting. Comments should be emailed to Planning@ch.utah.gov . After the public hearing has been closed, the
Community and Economic Development Department will not accept any additional written or verbal comments
on the application.

Notice of Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, individuals needing special accommodations or
assistance during this meeting shall notify the City Recorder at (801) 944-7015 at least 24 hours prior to the
meeting. TDD number is (801) 270-2425 or call Relay Utah at #711.

Confirmation of Public Notice
On Friday, August 1, 2025, a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the front foyer
of the Cottonwood Heights City Offices. The agenda was also posted on the City’s website at
www.cottonwoodheights.utah.gov and the Utah public notice website at http://pmn.utah.gov.



DATED THIS 1 DAY of AUGUST 2025
Attest: Tiffany Janzen, City Recorder
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING
STAFF REPORT
August 6, 2025

Summary
Project #:
CUP-25-010

Subject Property:
7871 S. Chadbourne Dr.

Action Requested:
Conditional use approval to
operate home business with
clients (Heartfelt Healing
Therapy)

Applicant:
Laura Durrant

Recommendation:
Approve, with conditions
                                      Aerial View

Context
Property Owner:
Jon Richards

Address & Parcel #:
7871 S. Chadbourne Dr.
22-35-226-007-0000

Acres:
0.18




                              View of driveway and parking
                                                 Administrative Hearing Staff Report for CUP-25-010
                                                                                      August 6, 2025


Request
The applicant is seeking approval to operate a home-based business within their residence, offering
psychotherapy services to clients. According to the applicant's narrative, individual psychotherapy
sessions will be available on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday from 1:00 PM to 6:00 PM. No more
than five clients would visit the home per business day.

All psychotherapy sessions will take place in a designated room located on the main floor of the
applicant's residence. The applicant will meet with one client at a time for 50 minutes. Clients are
scheduled on the hour, so one client leaves before the next arrival arrives. All activities will remain
confined to the designated area. Additionally, the property has two off-street parking spaces for
client use in the existing driveway.



Site Plan




                                              Site Plan
                                                                                           Page 2 of 6
                                                Administrative Hearing Staff Report for CUP-25-010
                                                                                     August 6, 2025


Zoning and Land Use


                                                                 Neighborhood Commercial (NC)




                                                    Residential Multi-Family (R-2-8)



      Residential Single-Family (R-1-6)



                                            Zoning Map



Analysis
Zoning
The zoning designation of the property is R-2-8 (Residential Multi-Family). Home occupations are
listed as permitted uses in the R-2-8 zone, as referenced in §19.31.020.C. Home occupations are
allowed only if the proposed business is clearly secondary and incidental to the primary use of the
property as the applicant’s permanent and full-time place of residence. Home occupations with
clients are a conditional use, as referenced in in §19.76.040.F.7. Home Occupations are regulated
in §19.76.040 Land Use:

F. Home occupations.
    1. “Home occupation” means, (unless otherwise provided in this code) any use conducted
       entirely within a dwelling and carried on by one person residing in the dwelling unit and one
       additional person who may, or may not, reside in the dwelling unit, which use is clearly
                                                                                         Page 3 of 6
                                                  Administrative Hearing Staff Report for CUP-25-010
                                                                                       August 6, 2025

        incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes and does not
        change the character of the dwelling or property for residential purposes, and in connection
        with which there is no display nor stock in trade, “stock in trade” being any item offered for
        sale which was not produced on the premises.
   2.   The home occupation shall not include the sale of commodities except those produced on
        the premises; provided, however, that original or reproductions of works of art designed or
        created by the artist operating a home occupation may be stored and sold on the premises.
        “Reproduction of works of art” includes, but is not limited to printed reproduction, casting,
        and sound recordings.
   3.   The home occupation shall not involve the use of any accessory building, yard space or
        activity outside the main building if the use of accessory buildings or outside activity, for the
        purpose of carrying on a home occupation, violates the rule of the use being clearly incidental
        and secondary to the use of the dwelling or dwelling purposes.
   4.   The director shall determine whether additional parking, in addition to the two spaces
        required per dwelling unit, is required for a home occupation and shall also determine the
        number and location of such additional parking spaces.
   5.   The director will review all home occupations for compliance with the above items. If the
        proposed home occupation cannot meet any one of the above items, the director shall not
        approve the home occupation.
   6.   “Minor home occupation” means a home occupation which complies with the requirements
        of Chapter 5.54 of this code and which will not otherwise have an offsite impact which, when
        combined with the impact of the primary residential use of the dwelling, exceeds the impact
        of the residential use alone. A minor home occupation is a permitted use in any zone which
        allows home occupations.
   7.   “Home occupation with clients” means a home occupation, not otherwise expressly
        prohibited by this code, where one or more persons visit the dwelling to conduct business on
        more than a very occasional, sporadic basis. A home occupation with clients requires a
        conditional use permit.




Noticing
Property owners within 300 feet of the subject property were mailed notices at least 10 days prior
to the public hearing, as required by 19.84.050. The initial notice included a map that incorrectly
highlighted the wrong property. A corrected notice with a proper map was subsequently sent, and
both notices were distributed within the required 10-day notification period.



Impact
The applicant has two designated parking spaces available in the driveway. The proposed home-
based business will offer psychotherapy services in a dedicated room within the property. Business
hours are as follows: Wednesday to Friday from 1:00 PM to 6:00 PM. Services will be provided to one
client at a time, with a 10-minute interval between appointments. The business is expected to serve
a maximum of five clients daily. There will be no additional employees working in the home, and no
remodeling or additions are proposed for this business.


                                                                                             Page 4 of 6
                                               Administrative Hearing Staff Report for CUP-25-010
                                                                                    August 6, 2025


Conclusions – Recommended Findings for Approval
•   The applicant’s narrative addresses client parking, employees, hours of operation, and business
    floorplan. Based on the materials submitted with the application, staff finds that the proposed
    home occupation will be incidental and secondary to the use of the property as a residence.
•   An administrative hearing will be held in accordance with local and state requirements.



Recommendation
Staff recommends approval of the application with conditions:

Conditions of Approval
    1. The applicant shall obtain and maintain an approved business license with Cottonwood
       Heights.

    2. Customers must use provided parking. Customers must be made aware of these parking
       restrictions. On-street parking for business use shall not be permitted.

    3. The business hours shall adhere to the applicant’s narrative.

    4. Approval of this home occupation is subject to review upon complaint.

    5. No more than one non-resident employee is permitted at this business.

    6. Any business activity conducted outside the dwelling shall not violate the rule of the use
       being clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes.



Model Motions
Approval
I move to approve project CUP-25-010, based upon the recommended findings for approval
outlined in this staff report:
• List any other findings or conditions of approval…

Denial
I move to deny project CUP-25-010, based on the following findings:
• List findings for denial…




                                                                                        Page 5 of 6
                              Administrative Hearing Staff Report for CUP-25-010
                                                                   August 6, 2025


Attachments
  1. Applicant Narrative
  2. Parking and Floor Plan
  3. Owner Consent Form




                                                                      Page 6 of 6
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING
STAFF REPORT
August 6th, 2025

Summary
Project #:
CUP-25-012

Subject Property:
7621 S. Primaverii Ct.

Action Requested:
Conditional Use Wall Height
Extension

Property Owner:
Cameron and Jane Archibald

Applicant:
Cameron and Jane Archibald
                                                                      Proposed fence/wall
Recommendation:
Approve, with conditions
                                                                                              Aerial View


 This aerial image shows the subject property in context of the neighborhood. The blue line shows the
 location of the proposed wall height extension. Red lines show the other property lines of the lot.




APPLICANT’S PROPOSAL
The applicant is proposing to construct an eight-foot fence along the north and south property lines. The
increased fence height is requested to maintain privacy and safety, particularly as the lots to the south
are currently under construction. The eight-foot fence will match the existing eight-foot wall on the rear
side of the property and to account for backfill necessary for landscape grading. The proposed fence,
made of concrete composite material, is intended to enhance privacy and provide additional noise
reduction for the applicant.
                                                Administrative Hearing Staff Report – August 6th, 2025
                                                          Project CUP-25-012 – 7621 S. Primaverii Ct.




                  Existing Fence                                          Proposed Fence

     •   Six-foot-high temporary construction              •    Eight-foot-high concrete ledgestone
         chain link fencing.                                    molding fencing.
                                                           •    The proposed fence format will increase
                                                                noise reduction and privacy.




BACKGROUND

Zoning
The zoning designation of the property is R-1-8 (Residential Single-Family). Fences and walls may be
allowed to a maximum height of eight feet in any zone as a conditional use, and up to 12 feet as a
conditional use with neighbor consent, as outlined in section 19.76.050.E City Code, shown below.
As this proposal is only requesting eight feet, neighbor consent was not required.

19.76.050(E)
       Conditional use. Fences in the side and rear yards may be erected to a maximum height of eight
       feet as a conditional use upon a clear and convincing showing by the property owner in accordance
       with subsections (a) and (b) below:
           a. The existence of unique or special circumstances of a natural, material and adverse nature
                relating to the property that will be substantially minimized or eliminated by the increased
                height of the requested fence; and
           b. That erection of such a fence is the most reasonable solution under the circumstances. Any
                such conditional use permit may be granted by the director or his designee following an
                administrative hearing preceded by all required notifications. A building permit shall be
                required for all fences approved as a conditional use.
       Neighbor consent. Side and rear yard fences may exceed eight feet in height to a maximum height
       of 12 feet in cases where the applicant has neighbor consent, and has received conditional use
       approval in accordance with subsection 19.76.050(E)(3).
                                                                                                 Page 2 of 4
                                               Administrative Hearing Staff Report – August 6th, 2025
                                                         Project CUP-25-012 – 7621 S. Primaverii Ct.



IMPACT ANALYSIS

Staff Analysis: Staff finds the increased fence height proposed by this application to be a reasonable
privacy enhancement and an increase in noise reduction.

Noticing
Property owners within 300 feet of the subject property have been mailed notices. Notices were mailed,
as well as posted on noticing websites and the City Hall bulletin board, on May 16, 2025.

Conditional Use Permit Determining Criteria
Staff has found enough evidence that the standards for the issuance of a conditional use permit have been
satisfied (see Section 19.84.080 CH Code).


FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL

    1. There is clear and convincing evidence shown by the property owner that the request will provide
       reasonable additional privacy; (19.76.050.E.3.)

    2. That construction of such wall and fence is the most reasonable solution under the circumstances.
       The additional fence height is necessary to ensure mitigation of aforementioned issues.

    3. The conditional use permit is granted by the director or his designee following an administrative
       hearing preceded by all required notifications. (19.76.050.E.3.)

    4. The evidence presented with the proposed conditional use has been found to be compliant with
       the requirements of section 19.84.080 (Conditional Uses – Determination) and section
       19.76.050.E (Miscellaneous – Fences).

    5. There is sufficient evidence that the standards for the issuance of a conditional use permit as
       outlined in Section 19.84.080 CH Code have been satisfied.




RECOMMENDED CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL

    1. A building permit and all necessary inspections shall be obtained and completed.
    2. The building permit will clearly state materials, design, and shall not exceed a total height of 8
       feet from existing grade.




                                                                                                Page 3 of 4
                                             Administrative Hearing Staff Report – August 6th, 2025
                                                       Project CUP-25-012 – 7621 S. Primaverii Ct.

Model Motions
Approval
I move to approve item CUP-25-012 pursuant to the conditions of approval outlined in the item’s staff
report
    • Add any additional conditions of approval…

Denial
I move to deny item CUP-25-012 based on the following findings…”
    • List reasons for denial…



Attachments
   1. Proposed layout
   2. Proposed materials




                                                                                            Page 4 of 4
ELEVATION DIAGRAM
PHOTOGRAPH




                EXISTING WALL LOCATION




            PROPOSED WALL EXTENSION


MATERIALS
