COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING AGENDA
August 6, 2025
Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission will convene on Wednesday, August
6, 2025, at Cottonwood Heights City Hall (2277 E. Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121) for its Work
Session and Business Session meetings.

   1. Work Session – 5:00 p.m. – City Council Chambers
   2. Business Session – 6:00 p.m. – City Council Chambers

Both sessions will also be broadcast electronically on the city’s YouTube channel at
https://www.youtube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams.
Please see the reverse side of this agenda for instructions on how to make public comment.

5:00 p.m. Work Session
       1.0 Review Business Session Agenda
       The commission will review and discuss agenda items.

       2.0 Adjourn

6:00 p.m. Business Session
       1.0 Welcome and Acknowledgements
              1.1 Ex parte communications or conflicts of interest to disclose

       2.0 General Public Comment
       This is an opportunity for individuals to make general public comments that do not relate to any projects
       scheduled for public hearing under the “Business Items” section of this agenda. Please see the Public
       Comment Policy on the reverse side of this agenda for more information.

       3.0 Business Items

               3.1 Project CUP-25-011 (PUD-25-001)
               A public hearing and potential action on a request by Brent Johnson on behalf of the Giverny Master
               Association (the Giverny Community HOA) to amend the Giverny Community Planned Unit
               Development’s rules regarding some accessory structure setbacks. Although this application was
               noticed as PUD-25-001, the application type is technically a conditional use permit. As such, the
               application has been renamed CUP-25-011.

       4.0 Consent Agenda
              4.1 Approval of July 16, 2025 Planning Commission Minutes

       5.0 Adjourn
       Next Planning Commission Meeting: September 3, 2025
Public Comment
Individuals may provide public comment verbally or via writing.

Verbal comments are accepted in person at the 6:00 p.m. Business Session, but not at the 5:00 p.m. Work
Session. At the Business Session, public comment may be given during two intervals:
   1. General Public Comment Period – An opportunity for general comments not relating to specific projects on
       the meeting agenda.
   2. Specific Project Public Hearings – An opportunity for comments relating to specific projects on the meeting
       agenda which were noticed as public hearings.

Please note that verbal comments must be provided by attending the meetings in-person. Verbal comments
cannot be provided via the electronic broadcast of planning commission meetings on the city’s YouTube channel.

Verbal comment periods are an opportunity for individuals to share comments as they see fit but are not an
opportunity for “question and answer” dialogue. Questions should be directed to city staff at
planning@ch.utah.gov. Verbal comments provided during the public comment period will be limited to three
minutes per individual, or five minutes per a spokesperson who has been asked by a group that is present to
summarize their concerns.

Alternatively, written comments may be submitted to staff via email at planning@ch.utah.gov. For written
comments to be entered into the record and distributed to the planning commission prior to the meeting, they
must be submitted to staff by 12:00 p.m. MST on Tuesday, August 5, 2025, the day prior to the meeting.
Comments received after this deadline will be distributed to the planning commission after the meeting.

Meeting Procedures
Items will generally be considered in the following order: 1. Chair introduction of item, 2. Staff presentation, 3.
Applicant presentation, if applicable, 4. Chair opens public hearing, if applicable, 5. Chair closes public hearing, if
applicable, 6. Planning commission deliberation, 7. Planning commission motion and vote on item.

Applications may be tabled if additional information is needed in order to act on the item; or if the planning
commission feels there are unresolved issues that may need further attention before the commission is ready
to make a motion. No agenda item will begin after 9:00 pm without a unanimous vote of the commission. The
commission may carry over agenda items, scheduled late in the evening and not heard, to the next regularly
scheduled meeting.

Notice of Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, individuals needing special accommodations or
assistance during this meeting shall notify the City Recorder at (801) 944-7015 at least 24 hours prior to the
meeting. TDD number is (801) 270-2425 or call Relay Utah at #711.

Confirmation of Public Notice
On Friday, August 1, 2025, a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the front foyer
of the Cottonwood Heights City Offices. The agenda was also posted on the City’s website at
www.cottonwoodheights.utah.gov and the Utah public notice website at http://pmn.utah.gov.

DATED THIS 1st DAY OF JULY, ATTEST: TIFFANY JANZEN, CITY RECORDER
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION
STAFF MEMO
Aug 6, 2025



Purpose of Memo
At the July 16, 2025 Planning Commission meeting, the Commission reviewed the proposed
amendment to the Giverny PUD related to accessory structures and voted to continue the item
to a future meeting. The continuance was requested to allow staff additional time to research
specific concerns raised by the Commission.
This memo summarizes follow-up discussions with the Building and Fire Departments and
outlines the applicant's revised proposal.


Commissioner Concerns and Staff Responses
1. Inclusion of Sheds in the Proposed Amendment, Particularly with Fire Concerns.
Response: The applicant has revised their request to remove sheds from the proposed PUD
amendment. The revised proposal now applies only to open-air structures, specifically gazebos
and pergolas, as defined in the code.
2. Fire Code Concerns (Especially Around Walled Structures and Safety in Giverny).
Response from Fire Department:
   •   Footings, foundations, or any walls are not permitted within the side yard area.
   •   Fire pits or gas features are not allowed under gazebos or pergolas, consistent with fire
       safety and building code standards.
3. Fairness to Others Outside Giverny in the R-1-8 Zone.
Staff Note: The proposed amendment only applies to properties within the Giverny PUD, which
features smaller average lot sizes (approx. 5,000 sq. ft) compared to the standard R-1-8 zone.
The applicant’s justification for this request includes unique spatial limitations in Giverny, which
complicate compliance with accessory structure setbacks under existing code. The amendment
would not extend to the rest of the R-1-8 zone.


Building Department Comments:
If zoning requirements are met, the Building Department has no objections to the proposed
reduction in setbacks between structures for gazebos and pergolas.
                                                             Planning Commission – Aug 6, 2025
                                                       Project CUP-25-011 – Giverny Community

Updated Proposal Summary
   •   Applies only to gazebos and pergolas (open-air structures).
   •   Sheds and other enclosed accessory buildings are excluded.
   •   Proposal seeks to allow revised setbacks and eliminate the minimum distance between
       the home and the accessory structure, provided safety standards are met.
The applicant is proposing the following deviations from city code:

 City Standards                                    Proposed Modification
 Minimum 3’ setback from side and rear             Minimum 5’ setback from side and rear
 property lines                                    property lines
 Minimum 6’ distance from primary structure        No minimum distance from primary structure




Staff Recommendation
Staff recommends the Planning Commission consider the applicant’s revised request, taking
into account the responses from the Fire and Building Departments. Staff supports approval of
the amendment as a reasonable accommodation for the unique lot conditions within the
Giverny PUD.


Attachment:

   1. 7/6/2025 staff report (include Project Narrative and Original Approval Letter)




                                                                                       Page 2 of 2
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION
STAFF REPORT
July 16, 2025

Summary
Project Number:
CUP-25-011 (PUD-25-001)

Subject Properties:
Giverny Community
(Approximately 3505 E.
Giverny Pkwy.)

Action Requested:
Conditional Use Approval to
amend the Planned Unit
Development

Applicant:
Brent Johnson (on behalf of
the Giverny HOA)

Recommendation:
APPROVE
                                                    Satellite view of subject property




Background
The applicant is requesting to amend the original Planned Unit Development (PUD) approval for the
Giverny Community (PUD-14-001). The intent of this amendment is to incorporate new rules
regarding accessory buildings (also referred to as accessory structures) into the PUD. The original
approval letter for the Giverny PUD (attached here) states the following condition of approval:

       5. The setbacks and lots standards are approved as proposed, and/or amended by the
       Planning Commission.

Both the original proposal document and most recently recorded plat only reference lot setbacks
for primary structure (homes), not accessory buildings. Additionally, staff could not locate any
reference to accessory building standards in any other documents relating to the original PUD
approval (PUD-14-001), or the most recent plat amendment (SUB-17-004).

Given the absence of unique accessory building standards approved as part of the Giverny PUD,
any accessory structure constructed on a lot located within Giverny must meet the accessory
structure standards defined in code, specifically those located in the 19.26 R-1-8 zone, and in
19.76.030.B.
                                                             Planning Commission – July 16, 2025
                                                        Project CUP-25-011 – Giverny Community

According to the applicant’s narrative, many property owners within the Giverny Community have
constructed accessory structures under the impression that because the buildings are less than
200 square feet large, they did not need a building permit (correctly so), and did not need to meet
accessory structure setbacks, including a 6’ minimum distance from the primary structure
(incorrectly so). The applicant’s narrative elaborates on this and includes example photographs of
noncomplying structures.

______________________________________________________________
Request
Due to this confusion, as well as the fact that the Giverny Subdivision features uniquely small lot
sizes, the applicant is requesting the PUD amendment (a conditional use permit application) to
remedy this issue. The applicant wishes to modify accessory building standards specifically for the
Giverny PUD. This proposal would only apply to open-air type structures, defined as Gazebos and
Pergolas within city code (19.76.030). This proposal would not apply to other accessory structure
types, such as sheds, detached garages, swimming pools and hot tubs, playgrounds, elevated
decks, etc.

The applicant is proposing the following deviations from city code:

 City Standards                                     Proposed Modification
 Minimum 3’ setback from side and rear              Minimum 5’ setback from side and rear
 property lines                                     property lines
 Minimum 6’ distance from primary structure         No minimum distance from primary structure


Although the applicant’s narrative has additional modifications listed, staff is only aware of the
above-listed modifications deviating from code standards.

______________________________________________________________
Analysis
Zoning and Land Use

Staff finds the applicant’s request for an amendment to the Giverny PUD to be reasonable, given
the reduced lot standards found within the Giverny Subdivision that complicate accessory building
construction on lots within the community. Additionally the proposed modifications would reduce
visual impact on neighboring properties, given that a slightly increased minimum setback would be
required for accessory buildings compared to the standard city code.

Because city code lists planned unit developments as a conditional use in the R-1-8 zone, staff has
processed this PUD amendment application as a conditional use permit. As a conditional use, this
application is entitled to approval unless reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to mitigate
negative impacts of the use. The following excerpt from Utah State Code further describes this:


                                                                                           Page 2 of 5
                                                               Planning Commission – July 16, 2025
                                                          Project CUP-25-011 – Giverny Community

        i) A land use authority shall approve a conditional use if reasonable conditions are
           proposed, or can be imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental
           effects of the proposed use in accordance with applicable standards. (10-9a-507-2)


        (ii) The requirement described in Subsection (2)(a)(i) to reasonably mitigate anticipated
             detrimental effects of the proposed conditional use does not require elimination of the
             detrimental effects. (10-9a-507-2)

Building Code

At the time of publication of this staff report, staff is awaiting feedback from the Building Official
James Short, regarding any implications the proposal would have on building code. If additional
implications are stated by the Building Official, staff will post a supplementary memo relaying
information. If no implications are found, staff will address this in the public meeting on July 16,
2025.



Conditional Use Permit Procedure and Authority
The Planning Commission is the approval authority for amendments to approved plans and
specifications for a PUD, as referenced in 19.78.160 and 19.78.170:

    19.78.160.B. Amendments to approved plans and specifications for a PUD shall be approved
    by the planning commission and a new set of approved plans will be issued by staff to address
    any approved amendments.

    19.78.170 Scope Of Planning Commission Action; Appeals

    1. It is the intent of this chapter that site and building plans for a PUD shall be prepared by a
       designer or team of designers having professional competence in urban planning as
       proposed in the application. The planning commission shall require the applicant to engage
       such a qualified designer or design team.
    2. The planning commission may deny an application for a PUD.
    3. In approving an application, the planning commission may attach such conditions as it
       deems necessary to secure compliance with the purposes set forth in this title and to
       mitigate any impacts that a PUD may impose on the surrounding people and properties.
    4. The action of the planning commission may be appealed to the city’s appeals hearing
       officer or other appeal authority under Chapter 19.92 of this title.

The details of such authority on conditional use approval of the project are included below:

        Following any public hearing, the planning commission shall consider the application in a
        public meeting. The staff’s written recommendation shall be considered, among other
        factors. The planning commission may either approve the proposed conditional use;
        approve the proposed conditional use subject to specific modifications or conditions;


                                                                                              Page 3 of 5
                                                               Planning Commission – July 16, 2025
                                                          Project CUP-25-011 – Giverny Community

        postpone decision pending consideration of additional information to be submitted by the
        applicant; or deny the proposed conditional use. (19.84.080)

        A conditional use shall be approved if reasonable conditions are proposed, or can be
        imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use in
        accordance with applicable standards. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of
        a proposed conditional use cannot be substantially mitigated by the proposal or the
        imposition of reasonable conditions to achieve compliance with applicable standards, the
        conditional use may be denied. (19.84.020)



Noticing
Per code requirement, notices were posted and mailed at least 10 days prior to the meeting.
Individual letters were sent to property owners within 300 feet of the subject property. The notice
was also posted to the city website and bulletin boards at City Hall.

The application was noticed under the file number PUD-25-001. Staff has since updated the
application to reflect what it believes to be the correct file type for this application – a conditional
use permit.



Findings
Findings of fact include:
    1. That the proposed use is one of the conditional uses specifically listed in the zoning district
        in which it is to be located;
    2. That such use will not, under the circumstances of the particular case, be detrimental to the
        health, safety, comfort, order or general welfare of persons residing or working in the
        vicinity;
    3. That the use will comply with the intent, spirit, and regulations of this title and will be
        compatible with and implement the planning goals and objectives of the city;
    4. That the use will be harmonious with the neighboring uses in the zoning district in which it is
        to be located;
    5. That nuisances which would not be in harmony with the neighboring uses, will be abated by
        the conditions imposed;
    6. That protection of property values, the environment, and the tax base for the city will be
        assured;
    7. That the use will comply with the city’s general plan;
    8. That some form of a guaranty assuring compliance to all imposed conditions will be
        imposed on the applicant or owner;
    9. That the internal circulation system of the proposed development is properly designed;
    10. That existing and proposed utility services will be adequate for the proposed development;
    11. That appropriate buffering will be provided to protect adjacent land uses from light, noise
        and visual impacts;

                                                                                              Page 4 of 5
                                                           Planning Commission – July 16, 2025
                                                      Project CUP-25-011 – Giverny Community

   12. That architecture and building materials are consistent with the development and
       surrounding uses, and otherwise compatible with the city’s general plan, subdivision
       ordinance, land use ordinance, and any applicable design standards;
   13. That landscaping appropriate for the scale of the development and surrounding uses will be
       installed in compliance with all applicable ordinances;
   14. That the proposed use preserves historical, architectural and environmental features of the
       property; and
   15. That operating and delivery hours will compatible with adjacent land uses.
   16. The foregoing approval standards shall be subject to any contrary requirements of Utah
       Code Ann. § 10-9a-507, as amended.



Recommendation & Model Motions
Based on the findings and analysis presented herein, staff recommends approval of project CUP-
25-011
Approval
I move to approve project CUP-25-011 based on the findings and recommendations listed in the
staff report dated July 16, 2025…

   •     List any additional findings or recommendations for approval…
Denial
I move to deny project CUP-25-011 based on the following findings:

   •     List findings for denial…




Attachments
   1. Project Narrative
   2. Original Approval Letter (pg. 1)




                                                                                       Page 5 of 5
Modification of Accessory Structure Setbacks for the Planned Unit
Development Approval for Giverny (PUD-14-001)

July 18, 2025, Planning Commission Hearing

Project Narrative

When a typical R1-8 lot is approved (8000 SF Lot) it would have building setbacks of 8’
and 12’ on the side yards, 25’ in the front, and 20’ in the rear.

When the Giverny project was approved it was done so with smaller homesites that had
smaller building setbacks. In this community, the lots average around 5000 SF, and the
side setbacks are 5’ on both sides, 18’ in the front, and either 10’ or 15’ in the rear.

When an owner at Giverny proposes to build an accessory building on their lot it creates
some challenges in the community since the lots are much smaller. As can be seen from
the diagram below (approved City guidelines for this type of structure) this is based on
what would be a typical 8000 SF lot. These larger lots can much more easily
accommodate this type of structure and can maintain the proper setbacks.




Many of the Owners in Giverny have built Accessory Buildings and did not understand
the requirements. They believed that since their structure was under 120 SF they did not
need a permit, nor that they needed to follow any setback guidelines. However, based
on the current guidelines almost all these structures are not in conformance and would
need to be modified or torn down.

As such, the primary purpose of this submittal is to request some modified setbacks for
Accessory Buildings for the Giverny Community which will allow many of the existing
structures to remain and to create a standard for new structures moving forward.
                        Modiﬁcation of Giverny Accessory Building Setbacks: June 4, 2025

Proposed Design Guidelines

The structures that we would propose this modification for are all more open-air type
structures (no walls) with three or four sides being open. The roof is either an open-air
pergola with roof slats, or, some have a full roof on them. None of these structures are
attached to the home or are habitable spaces. Examples include the following:

Detached Patio Cover with Covered Roof




Detached Open Air Pergola and Detached Covered Pergola




                                           2
                      Modiﬁcation of Giverny Accessory Building Setbacks: June 4, 2025

Detached Open Air Pergola




Detached Open Air Pergola with Bar Seating and Gas BBQ




                                         3
                         Modiﬁcation of Giverny Accessory Building Setbacks: June 4, 2025

Modification to Setbacks of Accessory Building Standards


We are proposing to maintain the current city standards regarding Accessory Buildings
with some modifications to the setbacks as shown below. The same standard would
apply to all lots within the Giverny community.

   Accessory Building Standards: The following city standards will remain.

   •   Needs to be a minimum of 5' away from any rear and side fences.
   •   The structure cannot be more than 25% of the surface area of the rear yard which
       is measured from the back of the home.
   •   It cannot exceed 20' in height, and the setbacks increase by 1' for each foot over
       14' in height. In other words, if you had a 17' tall structure you would need to be
       8' from the fences. (5' standard + 3' for height over 14 feet)

   Modified Accessory Building Standards: The following city standards will be modified.

   •   The structure can be located within 6’ of the home but not attached.
   •   The posts of the structure cannot be located closer than 5’ to the rear or side
       setback line as this would trigger the requirement for a one-hour fire rated wall
       assembly.
   •   The roof of the structure may overhang the posts by up to 36”.
   •   The exception would be that the structure posts can be up to 3’ away if opening is
       8’ or less in height so fire rated wall (based upon a 75% coverage of opening from
       the ground up) can be at a height not to exceed 6’. By doing this the fire rated wall
       will be at or near the height of the adjacent owner’s fence. Typical details are
       shown below. This example has a 7’ tall wall:




                                             4
                        Modiﬁcation of Giverny Accessory Building Setbacks: June 4, 2025

   These types of structures automatically require the need for a building permit. These
   are as follows:

   •   ANY structure that is attached to the house. If a structure is attached to the home
       that it MUST be within the building setback lines. For lots in Giverny this means
       either 10' (Lots 301-351 only) or 15' (all other Lots) from the back and at least 5'
       from the side fences.
   •   Any structure that has electricity in it.
   •   Structures that are over 120 SF in total size.
   •   Structures that are over 11' in height.


Based on the proposed changes the modified setbacks allowed would be based on the
changes shown in red below. Minimum setbacks for the Giverny lots were also shown in
red as well.




                                            5
                        Modiﬁcation of Giverny Accessory Building Setbacks: June 4, 2025



Conclusion

Since the Giverny community was approved with smaller setbacks it makes sense that
the community should also have smaller setbacks for Accessory Buildings. Our request
to make this change is to allow owners to have the ability to add these types of
structures while maintaining fire protections under the building code.

It is understood by the Giverny owners that any new structures submitted will need to be
reviewed by the Giverny HOA, and, if required, a permit is issued by the City. Any
existing structures that were not issued a building permit will need to be modified to be
in conformance with these revised standards, or, if that is not possible they will need to
be removed.




                                            6
Mr. Richard Cook
Giverny, LLC
8280 Etienne Way
Sandy, Utah 84093

RE: Preliminary Approval of PUD‐14‐001 Giverny PUD

Mr. Cook,

This letter is to memorialize that the Planning Commission of the City of Cottonwood Heights
granted preliminary approval of project PUD‐14‐001 at its meeting held on January 7, 2015. The
approval allows for a 165‐lot Planned Unit Development, Giverny PUD, on the property located
at 9160 Wasatch Boulevard. Per Zoning Ordinance chapter 19.78 (Planned Unit Developments),
final approval shall be based on approval of construction drawings and specifications and
satisfaction of all conditions of approval. Conditions of final approval are as follows:

1.     Approval of this project constitutes a conditional use permit.
2.     Approval of this project constitutes approval of the planned unit development
       subdivision.
3.     The developer shall establish acceptable design guidelines, in a formalized manner, to
       be approved by staff as part of the final plat approval of the PUD.
4.     The proposed PUD shall be owned and maintained by a single or partnership Limited
       Liability Company, corporate entity, or jointly filed by all owners of land.
5.     The setbacks and lots standards are approved as proposed, and/or amended by the
       Planning Commission.
6.     Lots covered by at least fifty percent (50%) of the Sensitive Lands Overlay Zone shall
       have a height limitation of thirty (30) feet.
7.     In addition to the proposed sidewalk system, the developer shall provide enhanced
       intersection treatments, such as textured paving, to highlight pedestrian crossings, as
       agreeable and approved by the city engineer.
8.     Gates are allowed in accordance with the provisions of Title 12 and Title 14 of the
       Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code.
9.     Fencing is limited to rear (and side yards for corner lots), and the perimeter, unless
       approved by staff for mitigating purposes.
10.    Fences within the project shall not exceed six (6) feet in height.
11.    Only one monument entry sign shall be allowed. The sign shall be limited to six (6) feet
       in height and no more than thirty‐six (36) square feet in size. The sign shall be setback at
       least three (3) feet from the adjacent right‐of‐way.
12.    All easements shall be duly mitigated to the satisfaction of staff and/or their assigns
       prior to the recordation of the plat(s).
13.    Staff shall review and approve proposed fencing and gates. (per ARC 6‐12‐14).
14.    A six (6) foot solid visual barrier fence shall be constructed around the Smith and McGee
       properties, as agreeable with the property owners. The fence material shall be either
       masonry or cedar, and shall be decided by the property owners.
15.    All Sensitive Lands Areas shall be shown on Final Plat.
16.    Lots within the Sensitive Lands Overlay Zone shall have a minimum 3,500 square foot
       buildable area and a minimum dimension of fifty (50) feet.
