Meeting Requested:       Business Meeting D   Work Session IZI   Other D
Public Hearing Needed?   Yes D No IZI Undetermined D
                         Denied D Approved IZI Con inued D
CM Approval or Denial
                         CM Signature:   ~


Appendix I - Agendas for August 19, 2025, City Council Work Session and Business Meeting

Appendix 2 - Meeting Minutes for City Council Meetings on 8/5/2025

Appendix 3 - Staff Report/Planning Department Land Use Amendment and Rezone at 3425 E.
             Bengal Blvd. Jim Sp ung

Appendix 4 - Staff Report/Employee Handbook Training Barbara H iggins

Appendix 5 - Staff Report/Short-Term Rental Software Discussion Councilmember Hy land

Appendix 6 - Staff Report/ Arts District Discussion Mayor Weichers

Appendix 7 - Staff Report/Bike Safety Updates Councilmember Birrell

Appendix 8 - Staff Report/Pergolas, Gazebos, & Other Open Air Accessory Structures Jim Spung

Appendix 9 - Staff Report/Action Items Shane Topham


CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
Attachment 1 - Ordinance 441-A
Attachment 2 - Ordinance 442-A
Attachment 3 - Resolution 2025-54
Attachment 4 - Resolution 2025-62
Attachment 5 - Resolution 2025-63
      ~ - - : : --...i ( ~      '


             Cottonwood Heights
             Cuy btm-<m tht mn,0111




           Appendix 1

       August 19, 2025

City Council Work Session and
  Business Meeting Agendas
            NOTICE OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
                       WORK SESSION AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights City Council will hold a Work Session at
approximately 4:00 p.m., or soon thereafter, on Tuesday, August 19, 2025, in the Cottonwood
Heights City Council Work Room located at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood Heights,
Utah. The public may remotely view the open portions of the meeting through live broadcast by
connecting to https://www.voutube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams, the city's YouTube
channel.

4:00 p.m.     1.        WELCOME - Mayor Mike Weichers

              2.        REVIEW OF BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA
                        Mayor Mike Weichers (I 0-15 min.)

              3.        REPORTS
                        (Each week the city council and staffprovide informational reports as a method of
                        keeping up on the day-to-day activities of the city. This agenda item is set aside to
                        allow council members to ask questions or for staffto bring the council up to date
                        regarding any changes since the report was made).

                   a. Planning Department Land Use Amendment and Rezone at 3425 E.
                      Bengal Blvd.
                            Community and E conomic Development Director Jim Spung (20 min.)
                   b. Employee Handbook Training
                            Records, Culture, and HR Director Barbara Higgins (30 min.)
                   c. Short-Term Rental Software Discussion
                            Councilmember Hyland (20 min.)
                   d. Arts District Discussion
                            Mayor Weichers (20 min.)
                   e. Bike Safety Updates
                            Councilmember B irrell (20 min.)
                   f.     Pergolas, Gazebos, and Other Open Air Accessory Structures
                            Community and Economic D evelopment Director Jim Spung (20 min.)


              4.        REVIEW OF CALENDARS AND UPCOMING EVENTS*
                        a. Wednesday, August 20th at 1:30 p.m.- Senior Social at City Hall
                        b. Saturday, August 23 rd from 9:30 a.m. to 11 :30 a.m. - Bark in the Park
                           at Mountview Park
                        c. Friday, September 12th at 3:00 p.m. - Mural Ribbon-Cutting at Golden
                           Hills Park
                        d. Friday, September 26 th from 5:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. -Community Block
        Party at Hillside Plaza
     e. Friday, October 24th - Monster Mash from 5:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. at
        CWH Rec Center

     *For more information, please visit CH UTAH.GOV and click Community
      Calendar


s.   POSSIBLE   CLOSED    MEETING   TO   DISCUSS
     LITIGATION; REAL PROPERTY PURCHASE OR
     LEASE; THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
     COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH
     OF AN INDIVIDUAL; AND/OR ANOTHER PERMITTED
     PURPOSE UNDER UCA 52-2-205

6.   ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION
                                          Cottonwood Heights
                                           City between the mnyon.s


            NOTICE OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
                      BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights City Council will hold a Business Meeting
beginning at approximately 7:00 p.m., or soon thereafter, on Tuesday, August 19, 2025, in the
Cottonwood Heights City Council Chambers located at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood
Heights, Utah. The public may remotely view the open portions of the meeting through live
broadcast by connecting to https://www.youtube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams, the
city's YouTube channel.
Persons physically attending the meeting in the City Council Chambers may make verbal comments
to the City Council when invited to do so, after completing a speaker comment card. Citizen
comments may also be submitted in writing to the city recorder at cityrecorder@ch.utah.gov by
noon, on the meeting date. In the interest of time and those attending the meeting live, however,
submitted written comments will be entered into the record and distributed to the City Council,
but will not be read at the public meeting.
Civility and decorum should be applied in all discussions and debates. Difficult questions,
tough challenges to a point of view, and criticism of ideas and information are legitimate elements
of a free democracy in action. Public officials and the public are encouraged to refrain from making
belligerent, personal, impertinent, slanderous, threatening, abusive, or disparaging comments.

7:00 p.m.      1.0     WELCOME - Mayor Mike Weichers

               2.0     PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE

               3.0     CITY COUNCIL COMMITTEE REPORTS
               3.1     Committee Reports by Councilmember Matt Holton (3 min.)
               3.2     Committee Reports by Councilmember Suzanne Hyland (3 min.)
               3.3     Committee Reports by Councilmember Shawn Newell (3 min.)
               3.4     Committee Reports by Councilmember Ellen Birrell (3 min.)
               3.5     Committee Reports by Mayor Mike Weichers (3 min.)

               4.0    CITIZEN COMMENTS
                      During each regular city council meeting (specifically excluding work sessions),
                      there will be a period not to exceed sixty minutes for citizen comment. "(Cottonwood
                      Heights Code ofOrdinances 2.30.160 (BJ) Persons physically attending the meeting
                      in the City Council Chambers may make verbal comments to the City Council when
                      invited to do so by the meeting chair. Persons attending the meeting remotely may
                      not make verbal comments to the City Council during the meeting. Persons attending
                      the meeting remotely, or who do not attend the meeting either physically or remotely,
                      are invited to submit written comments to the City Recorder before Noon. on the
                      meeting date. Written comments that are timely submitted will be admitted into the
                      record of the meeting and distributed to the City Council but will not be read at the
                      public meeting.
5.0    RECOGNITION
5.1    Carol Woodside -Mayor Weichers

6.0    STANDING QUARTERLY REPORTS
6.1    Public Works Report -Matt Shipp

7.0    ACTION ITEMS
7. 1   Consideration of Consideration of Ordinance 441-A Approving a General
       Plan Amendment for .95 Acre of Realty at 3526 East Fort Union Blvd. from
       Residential Office to Residential Medium Density.
       (This ordinance will approve amending the city's general plan to change the land
       use map designation of the referenced parcel of realty from Residential Office to
       Residential Medium Density. This approval is conditioned on the prior execution,
       delivery and recording of the development agreement contemplated by proposed
       Resolution 2025-54).
7.2    Consideration of Ordinance 442-A Approving the Re-zone of .95 Acre of
       Real Property Located at 3526 East Fort Union Blvd. from R-1-8
       (Residential Single Family) to R-2-8 (Residential Multi-Family) and
       Amending the Zoning Map.
       (This ordinance will approve rezoning the referenced parcel of realty from R-1-8
       to R-2-8 and will amend the zoning map accordingly. Approval of this ordinance
        will only be appropriate ifOrdinance 379-A approving a general plan amendment
       for the subject realty is approved. Further, this approval is conditioned on the
       prior execution, delivery and recording of the development agreement
       contemplated by proposed Resolution 2025-54).
7.3    Consideration of Resolution 2025-54 Approving a Development
       Agreement with Land Development LLC.
       (This resolution will approve the city's entry into a development agreement with
       Land Development LLC imposing certain limitations on the proposed development
       ofapproximately .95 acre of realty located at 3926 Fort Union Blvd. in the city).
7.4    Consideration of Resolution 2025-62 Approving Disposal of Unclaimed
       Property or Former Evidence.
       (This resolution will authorize disposal of unclaimed property and/or property no
       longer needed as evidence).
7.5    Consideration of Resolution 2025-63 Approving an Interlocal Cooperation
       Agreement with Salt Lake County and Greater Salt Lake Municipal
       Services District for Processing and Transferring pre-1 July 2025
       Applications for the Tavaci Development.
       (The Tavaci development was annexed into the city effective 1 July 2025. This
       resolution will approve the city's entry into an interlocal agreement with Salt Lake
       County and the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District whereunder the
       parties will cooperatively process and transfer development applications affecting
       realty within Tavaci which were filed before the annexation's effective date).

8.0    CONSENTCALENDAR
8.1    Approval of the minutes for the City Council Work Session and Business
       Meetings of August 5, 2025.

9.0    ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
                                        PUBLIC COMMENT PROCEDURE
     During each City Council business meeting (specifically excluding work sessions), there will be a period
     not to exceed 60 minutes for citizen comment. (Code of Ordinances 2.30.160 (B)). Any person wishing
     to comment on any item not otherwise on the agenda for public comment may address the City Council
     during the Public Comment period. Any person wishing to comment during the Public Comment period
     shall request recognition by the Mayor and upon recognition, approach the microphone and state their
     name, state if they are a resident of Cottonwood Heights and either provide their address or their Council
     district; and then address the City Council. Any person wishing to comment shall limit their comments to
     no more than three (3) minutes unless more or less time is specified by the Mayor. Citizen groups who are
     present will be asked to appoint a spokesperson, who shall limit their comments to no more than five (5)
     minutes unless more or less time is specified by the Mayor. All comments shall be directed to the City
     Council. No person addressing the City Council during the comment period shall be allowed to comment
     more than once during that comment period. Speakers should not expect any debate or dialogue with the
     Mayor, City Council or City Staff during the meeting.
     The City Council may choose to limit the amount of time allotted to public comment on a specific issue.
     In such cases, special procedures for determining who will be allowed to speak and the order of such
     speakers will be determined by the Council. In the interest of time and those attending the meeting live,
     submitted written comments will be entered into the record, distributed to the City Council but not read at
     the public meeting.


On Thursday, August 14, 2025, a copy ofthe foregoing notices was posted in conspicuous view in the .ft'ont foyer ofthe
Cottonwood Heights City Offices, Cottonwood Heights, Utah. A copy of this notice was sent to the Salt Lake Tribune
and Deseret News, newspapers ofgeneral circulation in the city, by the Office ofthe City Recorder. The agendas were
also posted on the City's website at www.ch. utah. go\' and the Utah Public Notice website at !,t1p://p11111.wal,.gu1 •.

DATED this 14th day of August 2025                                       Tiffany Janzen, City Recorder

The city building for this meeting is accessible. In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, people with
disabilities may make requests for reasonable accommodation or assistance by notifying the City Recorder at 801-944-
7021 or recorda(a ch. utuh. g01·. at least two business days before the meeting, or by calling Relay Utah at 711.
                       ( l;~\ I
           Cottonwood Heights
            City WIUWII ' ' " (1111)1'111




           Appendix 2

     MEETING MINUTES
City Council Meetings for 8/5/2025
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION
HELD TUESDAY, AUGUST 5, 2025, AT 4:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
CITY COUNCIL WORK ROOM LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD,
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Members Present:         Mayor Mike Weichers, Council Member Matt Holton, Council Member
                         Ellen Birrell, Council Member Suzanne Hyland, Council Member Shawn
                         Newell

Staff Present:           City Manager, Jared Gerber; City Attorney, Shane Topham; Police Chief,
                         Robby Russo; Finance Director, Scott Jurges; Records, Culture, and Human
                         Resources Director, Barbara Higgins; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen;
                         Community and Economic Development Director, Michael Johnson; IT
                         Manager, Matt Ervin;· Assistant City Engineer, Ben Nelson; Unified Fire
                         Authority, Riley Pilgrim

1.0     WELCOME - Mayor Mike Weichers.

Mayor Weichers called the meeting to order at 4:00 PM.

2.0     REVIEW OF BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA - Mayor Mike Weichers.

Mayor Weichers reviewed the Meeting Agenda and stated that the Pledge of Allegiance would be
led by Records, Culture, and Human Resources Director, Barbara Higgins, followed by the Citizen
Comment Period.

Items 4.1, 4.2, and 4.3 will be continued to the August 19, 2025, City Council Meeting. City
Manager, Jared Gerber, reported that the applicant, Adam Nash, had requested a reduced setback
of 15 feet on the western property line and was instructed by the Council to reevaluate the matter
to determine ifhe could work with the approved 25-foot setback. Mr. Nash was out of town and
requested that the items be continued to the next meeting.

Item 4.4 was Consideration of Resolution 2025-59 Declaring Certain Property Surplus. Police
Chief, Robby Russo, reported that the items are firearms that have been in the armory since 2008,
and they would like to trade them with a local dealer for modem weapons with better sighting
systems or a different caliber.

Item 4.5 was Consideration of Resolution 2025-60 Approving an Appointment to the Health in the
Heights Advisory Committee. Mr. Gerber reported that Eva Chan attended the previous evening's
Health in the Heights meeting and was very excited to be involved with the committee.

Item 4.6 was Consideration of Resolution 2025-61 Approving an Appointment to the Historic
Committee. Mr. Gerber reported that he interviewed Hazel Peterson and believes she will be a
great addition to the committee. She is a member of the Daughters of the American Revolution,
Daughters of Utah Pioneers, and other historical organizations.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 5, 2025,      Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      1
Item 5.1 would be approval of the minutes for the City Council Work Session and Business
Meetings of July 15, 2025.

3.0       REPORTS

          3.1    Historic Committee Report - Historic Committee Chair, Jim Kichas.

Historic Committee Chair, Jim Kichas presented the 2025 update. The committee had more
turnover this year than in previous years, but the members who stepped down continue to answer
questions and share their knowledge of the City's history, and new committee members are
bringing new energy and fresh perspectives. He then discussed the areas they have focused on in
2025 and their plans for 2026.

In 2025, the Historic Committee conducted an inventory of historic signs that identified 46 areas
where old signs need to be replaced or new signs should be installed. A phased project was
proposed that would allow for 12 signs to be replaced each year. Mr. Kichas presented the new
sign design and indicated that the committee will also be working to add contextual information
to the City website so people can find out more about specific locations.

The Historic Committee has also been working on the Butlerville Monument that will be installed
at the intersection of Fort Union Boulevard and 2700 East. Funding was received from the Utah
Department of Transportation ("UDOT") and Rocky Mountain Power to support the project, and
the committee worked with the Canyons School District to select the location. They are currently
working with the City to finalize the design. The sign will focus on the history of the Butler area,
including the school, church, and dormitory building. The committee has discussed including a
time capsule at the rear of the monument.

The 2025 Butlerville Days exhibit focused on the idea of building community and the City's 20th
anniversary. The exhibit will be repurposed for the fall exhibit at City Hall. There was a lot of
community engagement this year, and the committee sold more books than in previous years.

The Historic Committee is continuing work on the digital archive of historic materials. In 2025,
their focus has been on the 20th anniversary. Incorporation records were added to the archives, as
well as community council records dating to 1993.

In 2026, the committee will be researching the following:

      •   Interstate 215 construction history
      •   Property ownership and building history of Hillside Plaza
      •   The City's water and irrigation history

Mr. Kichas reported that the Historic Committee continues to collaborate with the Parks, Trails,
and Open Space Committee and other history groups in the Salt Lake Valley.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 5, 2025,       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      2
Council Member Birrell stated that the Butlerville Days exhibit was wonderful, and she
appreciated that it had ways to keep her grandchildren entertained while she viewed the exhibit.
She also attended the historic walk, which included a lot of great information. She appreciated the
efforts of Gayle Conger and everyone on the Historic Committee.

Mayor Weichers thanked Mr. Kichas and the Historic Committee for their time and efforts.

        3.2     Cottonwood Canyon Cove Park Naming Discussion - City Manager, Jared
                Gerber.

Mayor Weichers introduced Jim and Jan Peters. Mr. Peters stated that they built their home near
the park in 1967. At the time, the area was mostly sagebrush. They have seen a lot of growth and
change over the years, and he appreciated the opportunity to speak about the original park and its
significance to the community.

The Church identified several locations in the Butler Hill area that would be suitable for future
building sites, as well as adjacent potential recreation sites, adjacent to the Doverhill Chapel and
Nutree Chapel. They determined that the property adjacent to Nutree Chapel was ideal because it
was flat and required very little grading, and a developer had approached them with a proposal to
purchase the Doverhill property. Members of the Church and community made a case for the
Doverhill property even though it involved significant design, grading, and surveying work.

Based on the aesthetics of the Doverhill property and the community' s commitment and
determination, the Church elected to build the park at the Doverhill location. The park would not
have existed without that commitment from community members. Okland Construction re-leveled
over 9,000 cubic yards of soil, and Savage Brothers Excavation hauled it away at no cost. Soil for
the infield, final grading, park and irrigation design, surveying, and landscaping services were also
provided at no cost. The Church constructed the bleachers, flagpole, maintenance shed, and
pavilion. In 1976, after each stake was instructed to contribute to a bicentennial project, the park
was named Bicentennial Park. Even though it was owned and maintained by the Church, it became
a central gathering location for the entire community.

In 2021 , an arsonist set fire to the chapel. The Church then determined to liquidate the entire six
acres. In order to protect the asset, they constructed a fence around the property, which split the
community. Over 1,500 members of the community signed a petition asking that Cottonwood
Heights be given first right of refusal. Mayor Peterson approached the Church based on the
premise that the community had an equity interest in preserving a portion of the property as open
space. They agreed, which is why there is a park in that location. The park has its own history,
but it is also part of the history of the Brighton Point area. Mr. Peters suggested that the park name
reflect that history by being called Brighton Point Park or Heritage Park. The preservation of a
portion of the area as open space has already begun to reestablish the feeling of community.

Mayor Weichers stated that he had not been aware that the park came about because of the
community. Mayor Peterson was instrumental and securing the land, and one of the first decisions
made by Mayor Weichers, Council Member Birrell, and Council Member Newell was to purchase
the property. He was grateful to the Church and Ivory Homes for their partnership.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 5, 2025,         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      3
Council Member Hyland stated that donation was a recurring theme in Mr. Peters' presentation,
and two recommendations were made to name it Merrill Park after the gentleman who originally
donated the land. Mr. Peters clarified that Mr. Merrill donated a very small portion of the property.
Council Member Hyland stated that she preferred a name that tells where the park is as well as its
history. In response to her question, Mr. Peters stated that he believes Brighton Point Park would
accomplish that goal. Mayor Weichers suggested naming the pavilion or another feature after Mr.
Merrill.

Council Member Birrell stated that constituents have spoken to her about their connection to the
park and asked that it be named Summer Hill Park or Doverhill Park. She suggested that the item
be tabled to provide other residents time to make suggestions. Mayor Weichers clarified that the
current list of 54 names was too large. After the City Council narrowed the list down to a few
choices, the community would then vote on the name.

Mr. Peters stated that it was previously called the Bicentennial Park by the Church, but residents
referred to it as Doverhill Park because of the chapel and road names. However, that no longer
made sense because the park could no longer be accessed from Doverhill. He did not believe it
should be named after a specific person, as it will be a focal point in the City.

Mayor Weichers expressed his appreciation for the time residents put into considering and
submitting names and stated that he would be reaching out to them personally to thank them for
their great ideas. He believes that place needs to be considered in the name, and one of his favorite
suggestions was Wasatch Vista Park.

Council Member Newell stated that he appreciated all the suggestions. He believes it is important
to consider the area's history and community when choosing a name and agreed that the park
should not be named after an individual.

Council Member Hyland stated that many of the suggestions were not specific to Cottonwood
Heights. She prefers Brighton Point or Doverhill. Mayor Weichers expressed concern about
naming the park after an adjacent street. Brighton Point speaks to the area's history, and he
advocated that it be one of the options. The Council discussed the appropriate number of options
that should be provided.

Council Member Birrell remarked that she believes Doverhill Park should be included because
that is what it was historically called by residents. There were also several submissions for Canyon
Cove Park. It was noted that residents had requested that Doverhill Park not be considered because
there is no access to the park from Doverhill Drive. The park is addressed as 7650 South. Council
Member Hyland expressed understanding for that concern but noted that the Doverhill Chapel and
stake were in that area, and it has always been known as Doverhill Park. She did not believe the
option should be stricken unless there were safety concerns. Mr. Gerber stated that the concern
was regarding traffic driving on Doverhill Drive trying to access the park, but he did not believe it
was a safety issue. Council Member Birrell suggested Summer Hill Park, as the park will be
accessed from 3500 East via Summer Hill Drive.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 5, 2025,        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      4
Council Member Newell asked why the Council was hesitant to keep the name Bicentennial Park.
Council Member Hyland stated that, as Mr. Peters mentioned, the community never referred to the
park by that name. Mr. Gerber added that there is a Bicentennial Park in Sandy, and some other
suggestions have also been used for parks in nearby cities.

In response to a question from Mr. Gerber, Mr. Peters confirmed that the park was referred to as
Doverhill Park after the Doverhill Chapel, not "Dover Hills." It was designed as a neighborhood
park for the Brighton Point area and does not have parking. It was not designed as a city park. In
response to a question from Mayor Weichers, Mr. Peters stated that his preference is that the park
not be named after a person or a street. He believes the name should evoke curiosity about the
area's heritage.

The list of suggested names was reviewed and further discussed. In response to a comment from
Council Member Birrell, Mayor Weichers clarified that the purpose of the discussion was not to
decide on a name. The Council would narrow the list of options, and then residents would vote
on the final name. Council Member Holton suggested providing three options and a blank space
for write-ins.

After further discussion, the following options were chosen:

    •   Brighton Point Park
    •   Doverhill Park
    •   Summer Hill Park
    •   Write-in suggestions

Mr. Gerber reported that the options would be broadcast on social media, and the item would be
added to the September 2, 2025, meeting agenda.

        3.3     CORA Project Area Discussion - City Manager, Jared Gerber.

Mr. Gerber reported that two old Redevelopment Agency ("RDA") project areas, the Fort Union
RDA and Cottonwood Corporate RDA, were still generating tax-increment revenue but would
sunset within the next few years, so the funds must be spent. In response to a question from
Council Member Birrell, he clarified that the projects were created by Salt Lake County and have
a 30-year sunset period. The funds include a total of $1.6 million, approximately $1.1 million of
which is in the Fort Union RDA. All monies must be spent within or to enhance the economic
viability of the project areas. Enhancements on Union Park Avenue were paid through this RDA.

Mr. Gerber indicated that one element of the Moderate Income Housing Plan requires adding funds
to the regional Housing Investment Fund. In response to a question from Council Member Birrell,
he clarified that rezoning is not required; the requirement will be met by adding money to the
regional fund. No set percentage was identified in the plan.

Mayor Weichers stated that it had been determined that some road improvements had been
completed but not yet reimbursed. Finance Director, Scott Jurges, confinned that $75,000 could


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 5, 2025,      Approved: _ _ __ _ _

                                                      5
be reimbursed from the Cottonwood Corporate RDA and $273,000 from the Fort Union RDA,
resulting in a balance of approximately $290,000 in the Cottonwood Corporate RDA and $952,000
in the Fort Union RDA. In response to a question from Council Member Birrell, Mr. Gerber
confirmed that approximately $1.6 million is currently available between the two funds. Staff
reviewed road projects that have been completed over the last few years and determined that the
General Fund could be reimbursed approximately $349,000 from those funds. Mr. Jurges reported
that the amount is not reflected in the current Budget; the transfers will be addressed in a future
Budget Adjustment.

Public Works Director, Matt Shipp presented a list of potential projects that could be paid through
the RDA funds. The Council directed Staff to beautify the medians on Union Park Avenue from
I-215 to Creek Road, and some funds are being used for beautification. Midvale made
improvements to their side of Union Park Avenue approximately three years previously, but it was
not ajoint project. The Cottonwood Heights portion needs milling, overlay, and reconstruction in
some locations. A contractor who is working on another City project has agreed to honor their
current unit price for this project and provided a rough estimate of $875,000 to reconstruct the east
side of Union Park Avenue from Interstate 215 to 1300 East.

A second potential project is to enhance the Big Cottonwood Trail crossing at 3000 East and add
an enhanced crosswalk at the intersection of 3000 East and Big Cottonwood Canyon Road to make
the crossings safer for pedestrians. Mr. Shipp provided a rough estimate of $50,000 to $75,000
per crossing.

Council Member Birrell stated that she does not believe the area of Union Park Avenue from Fort
Union to the freeway is ugly or in need of enhancement in comparison to other problem areas of
the City. She believed that the funds must be used for specific purposes, but the recommended
improvements on 3000 East seemed to be general and active transportation improvements, not
economic development improvements. She stressed that the Council needed to prioritize
improvements and identify why those improvements are warranted, but she felt that the
suggestions were arbitrary. Mayor Weichers clarified that RDA funds can only be used in specific
areas, and 3000 East is in the Cottonwood Corporate RDA.

In response to a question from Council Member Hyland, Mr. Shipp confirmed that the median
improvements are a joint project with Midvale, and Cottonwood Heights' portion of the project is
being paid through the Fort Union RDA. The east side of Union Park Avenue needs to be
reconstructed, but RDA funds can only be used for reconstruction to 1300 East because that is the
RDA boundary. A Google street view of the road was presented, indicating the poor condition of
Cottonwood Heights' section of the road.

The second project is in the Cottonwood Corporate RDA. There are a limited number of projects
in that area that meet the RDA requirements, and enhancing the crosswalks would meet the City' s
pedestrian safety goal. Council Member Newell stated that the crosswalks are critical. He sees
pedestrians dash across the road, and vehicles often travel very fast through the area. In response
to a question raised by Mayor Weichers, Mr. Shipp stated that Staff had looked at rough ideas for
bump-outs, narrowing the lanes, enhancing visibility, and possibly adding a safety island. A raised


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 5, 2025,        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       6
crosswalk would likely not be practical for the intersection. Council Member Newell stated that
his preference would be to install the safest possible crosswalk.

Council Member Hyland read a citizen comment card proposing a City ordinance requiring
homeowners to have intentional landscaping and stated that she has noticed more blight in
Cottonwood Heights. She did not advocate for landscaping restrictions on private property, but
blight creates blight and beauty creates beauty. She supports efforts to beautify and raise the
standard of what is expected in the City without breaking the bank, and the work on the Union
Park Avenue medians is an example of that. Council Member Newell agreed that it is sometimes
disheartening to see poorly maintained lawns, but noted that it can be difficult to mandate upkeep
on private property. Council Member Hyland clarified that she was not in favor of such a mandate.

Council Member Birrell stated that constituents are concerned about the Great Salt Lake and are
limiting watering as a result. Grass die-off can be ugly and a fire hazard, but people also are not
watering their trees. She believes a citizen sustainability committee should be formed, and that
the City should take the lead in how it landscapes. She was in favor of using the RDA funds as
recommended and suggested that medians be considered to further enhance pedestrian safety on
3000 East.

Council Member Hyland thanked Mr. Shipp for being mindful of the City Council's priorities and
considering beautification, safety, and maintenance in his proposal.

In response to a question raised by Mayor Weichers, Mr. Shipp stated that he did not know if
enough funds would be available to address the problem areas of Big Cottonwood Trail. The
portion of the trail that was rebuilt on the west side of 3000 East was included in the
reimbursements, but improvements east of 3000 East would not be eligible for RDA funds.

Mr. Shipp was instructed to move forward with obtaining bids on the two proposed projects.

        3.4     LaCresta Drive Discussion -Public Works Director, Matt Shipp.

Mr. Shipp presented an aerial view of the LaCresta Drive area and stated that residents have
reported issues with cut-through traffic on Greenfield Way and LaCresta Drive. Speed studies
indicate that the 85 th percentile speed is approximately 28 miles per hour, but the traffic volume is
very high.

The City received a grant for Highland Trail Phase 3 from Interstate 215 to Fort Union Boulevard,
and the 30% design is currently in process. The design will consider options to discourage cut-
through traffic in this area. Mr. Shipp expects to present 30% design options at a September City
Council meeting. As part of the study, they are currently collecting traffic movement data for La
Cresta Drive and Greenfield Way to determine the traffic source.

Mr. Shipp reported that the neighborhood is scheduled for slurry seal or resurfacing. One option
would be to resttipe Greenfield Way at that time. There is currently a dedicated bicycle lane on
both sides of the road, but no sidewalk. Cars are allowed to park on the shoulder. This option
would narrow the lanes, create a bike sharrow lane, and increase the shoulder width to provide

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 5, 2025,         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      7
more room so pedestrians and bicyclists can more effectively use the shoulders even when cars
are parked on them.

The second option would be to institute a traffic circle pilot program and remove the three-way
stop at the intersection of LaCresta Drive and Greendale Road. Mr. Shipp indicated that the
intersection does not warrant a stop sign; Greenfield Way should be a through road. He observed
15 cars in the intersection, only three or four of which paused before driving through. Residents
have also indicated that cars do not stop at the intersection. When pedestrians expect cars to stop
at stop signs but drivers do not stop, that creates a conflict.

Mr. Shipp reported that over the last 36 days, approximately 26,000 cars traveled southbound on
Greenfield Way, which equates to approximately 730 per day between the hours of 2:00 p.m. and
5 :00 p.m. Approximately 34,000 vehicles traveled northbound. LaCresta Drive data for eastbound
traffic was unreliable due to a glitch, but westbound traffic included approximately 23,000
vehicles, or 630 per day. There is an issue with cut-through traffic. Staff believes that the
intersection redesign will solve the problem, and improvements can be made in the interim to
enhance pedestrian and bicycle safety.

In response to a question from Mr. Gerber, Mr. Shipp reported that the 30% design is funded, and
the City Council approved the study proposal. Once the 30% design is finalized, with the Council's
approval, he will apply for funding for the next phase. There is currently no construction funding.

In response to a question raised by Mayor Weichers, Mr. Shipp reported that a traffic circle is
being considered for the intersection of Greendale Road and LaCresta Drive. Traffic counts for
nearby roads will be included in the study to provide a better idea of the traffic source.

Council Member Newell stated that the area was discussed previously, and one issue that was
brought up was the learned behavior from the businesses along the frontage road. He believes a
lot of the cut-through traffic is generated by those businesses. Mr. Shipp stated that they were
considering ways to push that traffic to Highland Drive rather than through the neighborhood.

No sound/Council member speaking off mic I :41 :30 to 1 :43 :27.

Mr. Shipp reported that the City needed to take action on stop signs that are not in appropriate
areas. Several stop signs were recently removed with no negative impacts. In response to a
question from Council Member Holton, he stated that the stop signs would be removed from any
intersections where traffic circles are installed.

Mayor Weichers suggested a traffic circle be installed on Greenfield Way near the liquor store to
slow traffic as it enters the neighborhood.

Council Member Hyland stated that she is looking forward to the pilot program because the
intersection of Oak Creek Circle and Oak Creek Drive in her district has an unnecessary three-way
stop.



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 5, 2025,       Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                      8
Mr. Shipp stated that the Safe Streets and Roads for All ("SS4A") Grant agreement had been
finalized. It should be signed within one month, and the funds will be available at that time. He
will bring a proposal for the citywide safety program shortly thereafter.

        3.5     Short-Term Rental Discussion - Council Member Hyland.

Council Member Hyland reported that she participated in a four-hour short-term rental ("STR")
training with Julie Davies. The training is required by many cities for people who want to be
licensed as STR operators. She thanked Council Member Birrell and Lieutenant Ricks for
attending the training as well. It was enlightening to learn about the different terms, but
disheartening to learn about the ways various platforms are trying to get around municipal code.

At its last meeting, the City Council discussed the following:

   •    Adopting a Budget Amendment to purchase and implement the Granicus Host Compliance
        Software with the purpose of bringing existing non-licensed STRs that are allowed in the
        City into compliance.
   •    Potentially eliminate existing whole-home STRs in single-family residential zones.
   •    Utilizing the Granicus dashboard to inform the STR Committee and City Council on where
        owner-occupied listings are, which could guide policy.

Council Member Birrell stated that she listened to most of the STR training, and it was reported
that the most compliant STR operators are the ones who rent their whole home. Council Member
Hyland agreed and stated that if the Council only allows owner-occupied STRs, they will be
limiting the City's most affordable housing, internal accessory dwelling units ("ADUs").

The Council's directive on STRs was to:

    •   Incentivize compliance.
    •   Target enforcement.
    •   Create a scalable policy.
    •   Do its best to enforce owner occupancy.

In Washington County, owner-occupied STRs are allowed in unincorporated county areas. To
qualify as owner-occupied, the owner's primary residential exemption must be claimed on that
parcel. If the residential exemption is lost, the STR license is terminated.

In Sandy, the fee title owner may be an individual or trustee with 50% or more ownership of the
proposed STR. They do not allow owners to be a corporation, partnership, limited liability
company ("LLC"), or similar entity. Council Member Hyland noted that most STR owners create
an LLC for liability protection and suggested that Cottonwood Heights allow LLCs as long as the
member is the primary resident of the property.

Sandy also requires that the owner reside in the property for a minimum of 183 days per year and
provide copies of Utah tax returns, their government-issued identification, and an affidavit. Only

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 5, 2025,      Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                      9
one rental is allowed per parcel, with a maximum occupancy of eight people. There is a one-night
minimum and a 29-night maximum. Some municipalities prefer a minimum of two nights. Per
Utah State law, anyone staying over 29 nights is a tenant, not a guest, and has substantial rights
and a strict eviction process. Sandy allows whole-home rentals of 182 nights per year and ADU
rentals up to 365 nights. Council Member Hyland noted that the compliance software companies
indicated that a 182-night limit can be difficult to enforce.

Murray prohibits vacation rentals and unhosted sharing within the city. According to Julie Davies,
who is considered a STR expert, hosted sharing can be a liability because it essentially allows a
short-tenn roommate. In Nevada, a short-term roommate went into the owner's bedroom and
raped her. Another short-term roommate then intervened. A lawsuit ensued, and the person who
stopped the rape was found liable. The City was also found partially liable because they condoned
hosted sharing. Council Member Hyland did not suggest that the Council consider hosted sharing
but wanted to present Murray's definition of an owner as "any person who has legal or equitable
title to the dwelling unit." Owner occupancy means that they "shall reside in the dwelling as their
primary residence." They also define living on site as "a natural person in the dwelling unit in
which they are an owner of the dwelling unit and use that dwelling unit as their primary residence."
They require 50% ownership, a copy of government identification, and an affidavit, and prohibit
corporations, partnerships, and LLCs.

 Council Member Hyland indicated that the Council does not currently know where STRs are in
the City, and therefore, they do not know what the policy should be. She acknowledged that Mr.
Gerber and Code Enforcement had expressed concerns about going after the 500 to 600 STRs in
Cottonwood Heights with the limited available resources. The first step is to determine where the
STRs are. To Council Member Birrell's point, she did not believe requiring owner occupancy
would meet Council objectives because ADUs are renters' most desirable alternative to large
apartment complexes.

Council Member Birrell stated she has spoken with council members in other cities who indicated
that ADUs have not had an appreciable impact on affordable housing. She does not believe ADUs
will solve the affordable housing dilemma because there is a difference between having a STR
during ski season and the noise and other issues of long-tenn renters. Council Member Hyland
appreciated Council Member Birrell's perspective but noted that most ADUs are not licensed and
traceable, so their impacts are unknown. Council Member Birrell stated that Staff should be
directed to speak with Salt Lake City on the matter. Mayor Weichers disagreed with the narrative
because supply affects affordability, and ADUs create supply. He agreed with Council Member
Hyland that very few ADUs are reported.

Council Member Hyland presented the map provided by Granicus, indicating the estimated
number of STRs in Cottonwood Heights. She recommended that the compliance software be put
in place first. The City could then use the address verification module to target STRs that are
eligible for licensing and identify ineligible STRs, which could then guide the Council's decisions.
Granicus has indicated that the dashboard will identify owner-occupied and whole-home rentals
separately.



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 5, 2025,       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      10
Mayor Weichers stated that, to his understanding, owner occupancy results in fewer nuisance
complaints. Council Member Hyland stated that that is not the case in Sandy or in Ms. Davies'
experience. The Council shared that assumption in the beginning because it makes sense that an
on-premises owner would be more aware of what is happening on the property. Council Member
Birrell stated that in the STR training, Ms. Davies reported that cities like Las Vegas that have a
sophisticated approach to STRs have found that those who rent their whole home tend to use a
professional manager and become licensed, and they do a more professional job than owners who
rent out a room or portion of their home.

Council Member Hyland clarified that she was not advocating allowing whole-home rentals at that
time because they did not have the required data. They could potentially create an overlay zone
and only allow them in certain areas, or only allow whole-home rentals on arterial roads. She
believed the correct approach was to bring as many STRs into compliance as possible, look at
where the demand is, and then decide what to do about that demand.

Council Member Birrell noted that only 10% of multifamily housing in Las Vegas can be STRs,
whereas Cottonwood Heights only allows STRs in condominium complexes. She suggested
reviewing ordinances from other cities with a large number of STRs.

Council Member Holton stated that he wants Cottonwood Heights to be a place where people want
to live. They are dealing with issues with schools closing, affordability, and supply, and residents
he has spoken with are opposed to allowing STRs in their neighborhoods. He understood that they
did not have the data, but he needed to feel more comfortable before moving forward.

Council Member Newell expressed concern about enforcement and cost, especially when
comparing Cottonwood Heights to cities with much larger budgets. Council Member Hyland
agreed but noted that STR bans do not work, and the City is currently chasing its tail because the
demand is there, and they are doing nothing to incentivize a black market. Compliant properties
are currently being punished because they are playing by the rules and paying taxes. There are
over 500 STRs in the City, and only 110 are licensed. The compliance software was the only
option she was aware of to reduce the burden on the Police and Community, and Economic
Development Departments. Recent changes to State law allow cities to use listings as proof as
long as they have another piece of evidence, such as a screenshot of a review. The process cannot
be orchestrated in the City without creating a burden unless the compliance software is in place.

To Council Member Holton's point, Council Member Hyland referred to the STR policy objectives
the Council originally discussed. However, the City is allowing a black market to exist. Most
people do not even know that there are STRs in their neighborhoods. She believed they needed to
detennine the level at which STRs can be allowed without interfering with a neighborhood's
character.

Council Member Birrell asked if an estimate was available to determine the approximate amount
of revenue that would be generated by the $22,616 annual software cost. Council Member Hyland
stated that an estimated 40 new licenses at $520 each would be required to cover the cost. Those
STRs would also generate Transient Room Tax ("TRT") revenue, which can also be collected on
illegal STRs that are verified through the address verification module. Council Member Birrell

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 5, 2025,       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      11
was in favor of purchasing the software if its cost is covered by licensing fees as it would improve
the safety and quality of the City's neighborhoods. She is not in favor of STRs and is concerned
about schools closing, but she believes they can support homeowners and ensure that affordable
housing is attainable for families.

Mayor Weichers encouraged the Council to provide their availability for a Granicus software
demonstration. In response to his question, Council Member Hyland clarified that the initial
contract could have a one-year term. Mayor Weichers was in favor of a one-year trial period.

Council Member Holton stated that he would prefer a guarantee from Granicus about how many
STRs are eligible for licensing so the Council can have a firm idea of the amount of revenue that
could be generated. Council Member Hyland suggested asking that question during the
demonstration.

Council Member Newell asked how the City would enforce regulations if compliant properties
become noncompliant. He was in favor of a one-year trial period if the enforcement process and
any associated burden on Staff was identified. Mayor Weichers stated that Granicus will send
letters to STRs operating in eligible zones, so they will handle the initial enforcement step. Council
Member Hyland clarified that Granicus has a history of bringing 90% of eligible STRs into
compliance just by sending letters. The most egregious cases must be prosecuted, which Granicus
has found to be two to three cases annually. Multiple surrounding communities in resort areas
have indicated that they have achieved great success using the compliance software in conjunction
with an Administrative Law Judge. Some prosecution is necessary, but it is not a burden on Code
Enforcement in those cities.

In response to a question from Council Member Newell, Council Member Hyland stated that the
estimate of 40 homes came from Jim Rock, president of the Canyon Racquet Club Condominium,
who stated that at least half of the STRs in the complex are not licensed. That would be at least
40 units. Mr. Rock stated that some residents move out of their condominiums during ski season
and rent their properties for those three months, which pays their mortgage for the year.

Council Member Holton stated that he needed to feel more comfortable with the policy decisions
that would be made because he wanted to make sure that he could support those policies. Mayor
Weichers stated that the policy is a separate issue. Residents want the City to enforce its STR
regulations. If they enforce first, that will give the Council the data to determine policy. Council
Member Hyland stated that the annual licensing fee could be determined by the number of STRs,
so the software could always be a revenue-neutral investment. However, the software is the only
way to bring the noncompliant STRs into compliance without overwhelming City Staff. Council
Member Holton appreciated those points but noted that policy and the software had been discussed
holistically every time STRs were discussed. Council Member Hyland indicated that a policy
change may not be necessary. Council Member Holton stated that he would be in support of
bringing people into compliance without changing the current policy.

Council Member Hyland requested that all Council members complete the emailed poll so the
software demonstration could be scheduled as soon as possible.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 5, 2025,         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      12
        3.6     Conflict of Interest Discussion - Mayor Weichers.

Mayor Weichers stated that all City Council members sign a Conflict of Interest Disclosure once
each year. In that Disclosure, each member affirms that they will inform the Council of any topics
in which they have a personal involvement or from which they must recuse themselves. He
believed that it was in poor form to accuse a Council member of a possible conflict of interest at
the previous meeting. If the Council has questions about other members, those should be addressed
in a private setting.

Council Member Hyland stated that at the beginning of each Planning Commission meeting, the
Commissioners are asked if they have a conflict of interest or ex parte communications to disclose.
She found it interesting that they remind themselves about possible conflicts of interest. That does
not mean that the member cannot vote, but it gives them the opportunity to publicly disclose
anything that is relevant to the topic. Mayor Weichers stated that he reached out to other cities,
and none of those cities' Planning Commissions asked that question. He believes it is a redundant
question because everyone signs a Disclosure affirming that they will disclose conflicts of interest.

Council Member Birrell stated that Mayor Weichers was referring to her question regarding a
possible need for recusal. Because many people who hold public office are also actively working
as lobbyists and representing their industries at the State legislature, she believes it is fair to
emphasize the question beyond the legal minimum. She realizes that Cottonwood Heights meets
the minimum legal requirement of signing a form indicating that you will be mindful of conflicts
of interest, but she believes it would be helpful for the Council to have a Code ofEthics like Murray
City. She believes that would aid the public in feeling comfortable that representatives are mindful
of their obligation as public servants to ensure that they are as objective as possible.

Council Member Hyland stated that she was impressed that the Planning Commission would ask
the question. Everyone signs the Disclosure, but it is not made apparent to citizens to attend
meetings. As an elected official, she wants to be forthright and transparent.

Council Member Holton stated that all Council members have a duty to be transparent about any
conflicts of interest. He appreciated Mayor Weichers for clarifying that it is not appropriate to
question one's colleagues in a public meeting, but he did not have a strong opinion on how conflicts
are disclosed as long as they are disclosed.

City Attorney, Shane Topham, reported that the requirement for an annual filing of a Conflict
Disclosure Statement is a new addition to State statutes. Provisions of the Municipal Officers and
Employees Ethics Act may also require that if a Council member is being paid to do something
that will be affected by a matter before the Council, that conflict must be disclosed verbally during
the meeting. Council Member Holton stated that the State legislature does not ask the question in
every meeting, but people will recuse themselves or make a disclosure statement in the moment.
If there is a conflict in the moment, he agreed that the Council members have an obligation to
make that known. Mr. Topham stated that it is not required that the question be raised before every
meeting, but he believes individual members are obligated to disclose conflicts of interest with
agenda items during the meeting.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 5, 2025,        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      13
Council Member Hyland gave the example of the landscaping contract for the pollinator garden.
Although she did not have a financial interest in the matter, she disclosed at the meeting that she
is friends with Jeff Mott. She likes the reminder at the Planning Commission meetings and hopes
that the Council would seriously consider adding it to their meetings as a reminder and to show
constituents that they are being mindful.

Mr. Topham will research the matter and follow up with a memo to the Council.

4.0     REVIEW OF CALENDAR AND UPCOMING EVENTS.

        4.1     Saturday, August 16, from 11:00 AM to 1:00 PM-4th Annual Autism BBQ at
                City Hall.
        4.2     Wednesday, August 20 at 1:30 p.m. - Senior Social at City Hall.
        4.3     Saturday, August 23, from 9:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. - Bark in the Park at
                Mountview Park.
        4.4     Friday, September 12 at 3:00 p.m. - Mural Ribbon Cutting at Golden Hills
                Park.
        4.5     Friday, September 26, from 5:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. - Community Block Party
                at Hillside Plaza.
        4.6     Friday, October 24 - Monster Mash from 5:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. at CWH Rec
                Center.

5.0     POSSIBLE CLOSED MEETING TO DISCUSS LITIGATION; REAL PROPERTY
        PURCHASE OR LEASE; THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
        COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH OF AN INDIVIDUAL;
        AND/OR ANOTHER PERMITTED PURPOSE UNDER UCA 52-2-205.

Motion: Council Member Newell moved to ADOURN the Work Session and move into a Closed
Meeting to Discuss Character and Professional Competence. The motion was seconded by
Council Member Hyland. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.

The City Council was in closed session from 6:33 p.m. to 7:00 p.m.

6.0     ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION.

MOTION: Council Member _ __ moved to ADJOURN the City Council Work Session. The
motion was seconded by Council Member _ _ _ _ . The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Council.

The Work Session adjourned at 7:00 PM.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 5, 2025,       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      14
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
HELD TUESDAY, AUGUST 5, 2025, AT 7:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD,
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Members Present:        Mayor Mike Weichers, Council Member Matt Holton, Council Member
                        Ellen Birrell, Council Member Suzanne Hyland, Council Member Shawn
                        Newell

Staff Present:          City Manager, Jared Gerber; City Attorney, Shane Topham; Police Chief,
                        Robby Russo; Finance Director, Scott Jurges; Records, Culture, and Human
                        Resources Director, Barbara Higgins; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen;
                        Community and Economic Development Director, Michael Johnson; IT
                        Manager, Matt Ervin; Assistant City Engineer, Ben Nelson; Unified Fire
                        Authority, Riley Pilgrim

1.0    WELCOME

Mayor Weichers called the meeting to order at 7:04 PM.

2.0     PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE

The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Records, Culture, and Human Resources Director, Barbara
Higgins.

3.0     CITIZEN COMMENTS

Scott Bracken stated that he was present during the conflict of interest discussion. He has always
expected elected officials to have a default position of integrity and honesty, and he believed that
was a good default expectation until someone demonstrates otherwise. He and his wife are
advisors to the Youth City Council. At the 2025 Butlerville days, service officer Orion Ehrhart
helped coordinate with the Youth Council to set up and clean up after the fireworks, work in the
information booth and food tents, and participate in the parade. The Youth City Council spent 174
hours working on Butlerville Days. He appreciated Ann Eatchel's efforts on the event. A number
of people who visited the information booth told him that they prefer Butlerville Days to similar
activities in other cities because it is organized and feels safe and well done. Butlerville Days has
become a family tradition for many people. He thanked the Cottonwood Heights Police
Department and United Fire Authority for their presence. He appreciates how smoothly the event
goes now because that was not the case in its first few years. The Youth City Council will be
participating in Bark in the Park in September, the Monster Mash in October, the Thanksgiving
SK Run, and Light the Heights in December. They hoped to schedule a dinner with Mayor
Weichers the following week.

Mayor Weichers thanked Mr. Bracken for his efforts and asked him to communicate to the Youth
City Council that the Council is aware of how much they do for the City and thank them for their


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 5, 2025,        Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                      15
volunteerism and support. People have commented about the cleanliness of Butlerville Days,
which is a credit to the Youth Council.

Council Member Bin-ell stated that she is amazed at Mr. and Mrs. Bracken's dedication to
Cottonwood Heights. The City owes them its gratitude for the leadership they provide its youth.

Charlie Higgins stated that he is 10 years old. He really loves animals and is very good at taking
care of them. He has been helping take care of his neighbors' chickens, feeding them and
collecting eggs, almost every day. They are very calm and friendly, and he has grown attached to
them. His neighbors are moving and have offered to let him have the chickens. The problem is
that the City has a rule requiring chicken coops to be 40 feet away from neighboring properties,
which makes it very hard to keep chickens even if you have a large yard like his family does. They
researched 10 sun-ounding cities, and they only required 20 to 25 feet, not 40. He thinks the City
should update the Code to match those nearby cities. Chickens do not take up a lot of space, are
quiet, and help children like him learn responsibility and where food comes from. He would love
the chance to keep taking care of the chickens he has already bonded with and asked that the City
Council consider changing the rules so more families can have chickens too.

Bridget Higgins stated that she and her son looked at regulations for Sandy, Midvale, Holladay,
Millcreek, Draper, Salt Lake City, West Jordan, Murray, South Salt Lake, and Taylorsville. Half
of them have a 20-foot requirement and the other half require 25 feet, which is significantly less
than the 40 feet required by Cottonwood Heights.

Council Member Hyland indicated that they were not the only residents who had requested that
the Council consider revising the ordinance to allow families to raise their own food. Council
Member Bin-ell stated that the cun-ent ordinance requires a single-family residence; multifamily
residences are not allowed to have chickens.

Maggie Mills provided an update on the Whitmore Library. The "Mad Science" children's
program will be held on Friday, August 8, 2025. A Produce Swap will be held every Thursday,
Friday, and Saturday in August. The Stressbusters program being conducted in association with
Salt Lake County Youth Services is a 10-week program designed for children and tweens aged
nine to 12 with the goal of teaching them how to feel better, solve problems, and manage emotions.
It is held on Thursdays at 6:00 p.m. The adult nonfiction book club will meet on August 20, 2025,
at 7:00 p.m. to discuss "The Forager" by Michelle Dowd, which is a memoir about resilience and
healing.

Mayor Weichers reported that one public comment was submitted online and had been distributed
to the City Council.

There were no further comments. The Citizen Comment Period was closed.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 5, 2025,      Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      16
4.0 .   ACTION ITEMS

        4.1     Consideration of Consideration of Ordinance 441-A Approving a General
                Plan Amendment for .95 Acre of Realty at 3526 East Fort Union Boulevard
                from Residential Office to Residential Medium Density.
                (This ordinance will approve amending the city's general plan to change the land
                use map designation of the referenced parcel of realty from Residential Office to
                Residential Medium Density. This approval is conditioned on the prior
                execution, delivery and recording ofthe development agreement contemplated by
                proposed Resolution 2025-54).

        4.2     Consideration of Ordinance 442-A Approving the Re-zone of .95 Acre of Real
                Property Located at 3526 East Fort Union Blvd. from R-1-8 (Residential
                Single Family) to R-2-8 (Residential Multi-Family) and Amending the Zoning
                Map.
                (This ordinance will approve rezoning the referenced parcel of realty from R-1-
                8 to R-2-8 and will amend the zoning map accordingly. Approval of this
                ordinance will only be appropriate if Ordinance 379-A approving a general plan
                amendment for the subiect realty is approved. Further, this approval is
                conditioned on the prior execution, delivery and recording of the development
                agreement contemplated by proposed Resolution 2025-54).

        4.3     Consideration of Resolution 2025-54 Approving a Development Agreement
                with Land Development LLC.
                (This resolution will approve the City's entry into a development agreement with
                Land Development LLC imposing certain limitations on the proposed
                development of approximately .95 acre of realty located at 3926 Fort Union
                Boulevard in the City).

Mayor Weichers reported that items 4.1, 4.2, and 4.3 were discussed during the Work Session.

MOTION: Council Member Birrell moved to TABLE Ordinance 441-A, Ordinance 772-A, and
Resolution 2025-54 to the August 19, 2025, City Council Meeting. The motion was seconded by
Council Member Newell. The motion passed unanimously.

        4.4     Consideration of Resolution 2025-59 Declaring Certain Property Surplus.
                (By this resolution, the council will declare surplus and designate the method of
                disposition of certain unneeded CHPD firearms and similar personal property
                owned by the City).

Mayor Weichers reported that the above item was discussed during the Work Session.

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to APPROVE Resolution 2025-59 Declaring Certain
Property Surplus. The motion was seconded by Council Member Birrell. Vote on Motion:
Council Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Birrell-Yes; Mayor
Weichers-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 5, 2025,      Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      17
       4.5      Consideration of Resolution 2025-60 Approving an Appointment to the Health
                in the Heights Advisory Committee.
                (This resolution will approve the city manager's appointment ofEva Chan to the
                City's Health in the Heights advisory committee to fill a vacancy).

Mayor Weichers reported that the above item was discussed during the Work Session, and the City
Council was excited to welcome Eva Chan to the committee.

Council Member Hyland stated that Ms. Chan has jumped in with both feet. She was a policy
advocate in New York, and she contacted the City to inquire about volunteering. They are looking
forward to having Ms. Chan on the committee and in the community.

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to APPROVE Resolution 2025-60 Approving an
Appointment to the Health in the Heights Advisory Committee. The motion was seconded by
Council Member Birrell. Vote on Motion: Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member
Birrell-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Mayor Weichers-Yes.         The motion passed
unanimousIy.

       4.6      Consideration of Resolution 2025-61 Approving an Appointment to the
                Historic Committee.
                (This resolution will approve the city manager's appointment o(Hazel Peterson
                to the City's Historic Committee to fill a vacancy).

Mayor Weichers reported that the above item was discussed during the Work Session, and the City
Council was excited to welcome Hazel Peterson to the committee.

City Manager, Jared Gerber, stated that Ms. Peterson is very excited to be involved with the
Historic Committee.

MOTION: Council Member Newell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2025-61 Approving an
Appointment to the Historic Committee. The motion was seconded by Council Member Birrell.
Vote on Motion: Council Member Birrell-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member
Newell-Yes; Mayor Weichers-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

5.0     CONSENT CALENDAR

        5.1     Approval of the Minutes for the City Council Work Session and Business
                Meetings of July 15, 2025

MOTION: Council Member Newell moved to APPROVE the Consent Calendar, as presented.
The motion was seconded by Council Member Hyland. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Council.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 5, 2025,     Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      18
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the
Cottonwood Heights City Council Work Session and City Council Business Meetings held
Tuesday, August 5, 2025.


Tev-L Forbes
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 5, 2025,   Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      20
              Cottonwood Heights
              Ciry !ll111vm 1hr r,111yom




              Appendix 3

              REPORT

Planning Department Land Use Amendment
    and Rezone at 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

              Jim Spung
                           Business Meeting D

Public Hearing Needed?
                                                             □
 M Approval or Denial
                           CM Signature:


REQUEST
Introduction and discussion of a proposed general plan land use map amendment and rezone of the parcel
located at 3425 E. Bengal Boulevard. The applicant is proposing to amend the General Plan land use map from
Neighborhood Commercial to Residential Medium Density, and to subsequently rezo ne the property from
Neighborhood Commercial (NC) to Residential Multifamily (RM) to subdivide and construct six townhomes on
the property.


BACKGROUND

Detailed summary and background of this request are provided in the attached Planning Commission staff
report.

On July 16, 2025, the Planning Commission held a public hearing and recommended APPROVAL with a 6-1 vote
for both the land use map request and the rezone request.



RECOMMENDATION

The Planning Commission voted to recommend APPROVAL of the proposed amendments with a 6-1 vote.



Attachments:

   1. ZMA-25-003 Planning Commission Staff Report (with attachments)
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION                                                                   7 1/t,, '\ .. (
STAFF REPORT                                                                  ottonwood Heights
                                                                             Ciry between the canyons

July 16, 2025

Su mmary
Project Number:
ZMA-25-003

Subject Property:
3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

Action Requested:
Zoning Map Amend. and
General Plan Amend.

Applicant:
Nathan Anderson
(Brighton Lofts LLC)

Recommendation:
APPROVE


Context
Property Owner:
Brighton Lofts LLC

Acreage:
0.48 acres




Request
The owner of 3425 E. Bengal Blvd. has applied for amendments to the city' s General Plan Land Use
Map (future vision for general use type on a parcel) and Zoning Map (current codified standards that
regulate use and development of a parcel) for the property, as follows:

   •    Current land use designation - Neighborhood Commercial
    •   Proposed land use designation - Residential Medium Density

    •   Current ZQD.ing designation - NC (Neighborhood Commercial)
    •   Proposed zoning designation - RM (Multifamily Residential)
                                               Plann ing Comm ission - July 16, 2025
                                          Project ZMA-25-003 - 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

            CURRENT LAND USE DESIGNATION: Neighborhood Commercial




                                 I
                          Bengal Blvd                              Be ngal Blvd




.1J,1l,jlilil1il!l':J:J
 ..d!J111J1JEJl!Jlill




          PROPOSED LAND USE DESIGNATION: Residential Medium Density




                                  I
                          Bengal Blvd                              Bengal Blvd




~ljilll!I1.rl!l.:Jil
  C   iliJlrJlJ.(tifil!




                                                                           Page 2 of 7
                                               Plann ing Comm ission - July 16, 2025
                                        Project ZMA-25-003 - 3425 E. Bengal Blvd .

CURRENT ZONING DESIGNATION: NC (Neighborhood Commercial)




      Bengal Blvd                                                          Bengal Blvd




                        i'.-·J-!J :,]JJg:r
                                                • yJ ;   iU:lli1filultt,
                              r!.l111i!1




 PROPOSED ZONING DESIGNATION: RM (Residential Multifamily)




                                                         ,.

       Bengal Blvd                                                         Bengal Blvd




                                               L_
                         j'-·J-:J .:.,iJ i'~
                              r:.JIJ ,!!1                '~


                                                                                Page 3 of 7
                                                               Plann ing Commission -J uly 16, 2025
                                                        Project ZMA-25-003 - 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

Background
This property and its primary structure formerly operated as a Wells Fargo bank bra nch prior t o
closure in the early 2020s. The property is zoned NC (Neighborhood Commercial) and has
maintained this designation for as long as staff records indicate. Staff has concluded it is likely that
both the zoning and use of the property as a bank branch were carri ed over from Salt Lake County
prior to city incorporation in 2005.

In late 2024, an application was applied for to develop live-work units on the property, as was
permitted within the NC zone at the time as a conditional use (CUP-24-019). Concerns over
potential negative impacts such as waste pickup and parking led the Planning Commission to
continue the item to subsequent meetings until these concerns could be addressed by the
applicant. The applicant later withdrew the application. Simultaneously, the lack of clear
regulations and definitions regardi ng "live-work units" led City Council to issue a moratorium on all
live-work applications within the city. This did not app ly to CUP-24-019 prior to the app lication's
withdrawal. The moratorium was recently lifted following the adoption of zoning text amendments
to address the concerns.

Following this, a new conditional use permit application was applied for to operate a church on the
property (CUP-25-004). Following st aff review, and just prior to the June 4, 2025 meeting, the
application was withdrawn.

The owner of the property and applicant of the first conditional use permit, Nathan Anderson, is
now applying for a zoning map amendment (rezone) to change the property's zon ing designation
from NC (Neighborhood Commercia l) to RM (M ultifamily Residential) (see page 3). As city code
requires any rezone to be aligned with the Land Use Map wit hin the city's General Plan, a general
plan amendment has also been applied for the change the land use designation of the property
from 'Neighborhood Commercial' to 'Residential Medium Density' (see page 2).

Although review of any potential development is not within the scope of this application, the
applicant has provided context for the request w ithin their narrative: The app licant wishes to
develop six town home units facing Oakshadow Cir, perpendicular to Bengal Blvd. Conceptual
designs provided by the applicant can be found attached to this staff report. The RM zone allows
attached single-family dwellings (townhomes) as a permitted use, not requiring conditional use
approval.



Analys is & Procedure
Staff Analysis

Staff finds that the request to amend the land use map from 'Neighbo rhood Commercial' to
'Residential Medium Density' and the zoning map from NC (Neighborhood Commercial) to RM
(Residential Multi-Family) is generally compatible with the city's long-range vision and goals f or the
area for the following reasons:

    •   Single-family dwellings (attached) are permitted uses in the RM zone. Other than home
        occupations, no commercial or office uses are permitted in the proposed zone without a
        conditional use permit.
                                                                                             Page4of7
                                                              Pla nning Commission -July 16, 2025
                                                        Proj ect ZMA-25-003 - 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

   •   The designated land use of many nearby properties along Bengal Blvd and the surrounding
       vicinity is also Residential Medium Density.
   •   While no property in the vicinity is zoned RM, many properties are zoned R-2-8, another
       multifamily zone. These nearby properties contain a similar density of dwelling units to
       what is being proposed here.
   •   This property is the on ly parcel on the north side of Bengal Blvd. in the vicinity zoned and
       designated as Neighborhood Commercial.
   •   The NC zone allows residential uses under the ' Neighborhood Mixed Use' category within
       allowed conditional uses. A development of this type would likely entail a more intensive
       land use for the property, with a simi lar number of residential units, compared to what the
       applicant wishes to eventually develop.
   •   While detailed development plans are not a part of this proposal, RM zoning standards
       would still apply to any development applied for on the property, such as minimum lot
       sizes, minimum lot widths, setbacks, maximum height, lot coverage, and open space
       requirements (see attached §19.34 RM zoning code).



Procedure

Zoning map amendments and general plan amendments are legislative actions, meaning that the
Planning Commission's authority is to take public comment, discuss the merits of the proposal,
and make recommendations to the City Council. The City Counc il is the final approval authority for
this application.

Chapter 19.90.070 of the Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code details the procedure for general
plan amendments:

       19.90.070 General Plan Amendment; Procedure
       The city council may amend the general plan. A proposed amendment to the general plan
       shall not be made or become effective unless it is first presented to the planning
       commission and, before making its recommendation concerning the proposed
       amendment, the planning commission holds a public hearing on the proposed
       amendment preceded by all required public notice. The planning commission thereafter
       shall forward the proposed amendment and its recommendation concerning it to the city
       council.


Chapter 19.90.010 of the Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code details the procedure for zoning
map amendments:

       19.9D.1DAmendment Procedure.
       A. The city council may, from time to time, amend the number, shape, boundaries or area
           of any zone or any regulation within any zone or any other provisions of the zoning
           ordinance. The city council may not make any amendment authorized by this
           section unless the amendment is proposed by the planning commission or was
           first submitted to the planning commission for its recommendation. To become
           effective, zoning amendment applications which have received the positive

                                                                                             Page 5 of 7
                                                             Planning Commission -July 16, 2025
                                                       Project ZMA-25-003- 3425 E. Bengal Blvd .

            recommendation of the planning commission must first receive the favorable vote
            of not less than a majority of the entire membership of the city council.
         B. Zoning amendment applications which receive a recommendation of denial by the
            planning commission shall thereafter be considered by the city council.... The city
            council, after review of the recommendation by the planning commission, may affirm,
            reverse, alter or remand for further review and consideration any recommendations
            made by the planning commission.


Further, Chapter 19.90 establishes minimum timelines that require at least one year after Council
disapproval of a rezone and/or general plan amendment application before an application can be
made for the same zone classification again (19.90.050 I 19.90.100).

The subject application is compliant with the above codified requirements.




Noticing
Notices were posted and mailed at least 10 days prior to the meeting. Individual letters were mails
to property owners within 1000' feet of the subject property, and a public notice sign was posted on
the property. Returned notices and a list of all noticed properties have been kept by staff.



Findings
Findings of fact include:

   1. A public hearing is being held in accordance with local and state requirements;
   2. The proposed zoning designation is compatible with the surrounding developed area, and
      with the underlying land use designation of the subject property;
   3. The public will not be materially injured by the proposed amendment, and staff has
      determined there is good cause for the amendment.




Recommendation & Model Motions
Based on the findings and analysis presented herein, staff recommends that the Planning
Commission forward a recommendation of approval of project ZMA-25-003 to the City Council
(Note-two separate motions and votes will be required - one for the proposed land use map
amendment, and one for the proposed zone map amendment. Both projects have the same project
reference number).

Approval

I move to recommend approval of project ZMA-25-003 to the City Council based on the findings and
recommendations listed in the staff report dated July 16, 2025...

    •    List any additional findings or recommendations for approval...

Denial


                                                                                         Page 6 of 7
                                                          Plann ing Comm ission -July 16, 2025
                                                    Project ZMA-25-003 - 3425 E. Bengal Blvd .

I move to recommend denial of project ZMA-25-003 to the City Council based on the following
findings:

   •   List findings for denial ...



ATTACHMENTS

   •   Applicant's Narrative
   •   Town home Development Conceptual Designs
   •   RM (Residential Multifamily) Zoning Code




                                                                                      Page 7 of 7
Written Narrative Dated June 16, 2025.

   1. Description of the overall rationale or intention of the project:

       Brighton Lofts, LLC requests a rezone of the property at 3425 East Bengal Blvd (.485
       acres) from NC (Neighborhood Commercial) to RM (Residential Multi-family). A
       depiction of the property is attached.


       The current NC zoning of the property has proven a failure, resulting in a property
       with a vacant building and no viable commercial prospects. Proximity to Brighton
       Point shopping center has not proven helpful as it is offset from the Center and
       across the street. A rezone of the property is needed in order to put the property to
       beneficial use, and eliminate the blight that the current zoning has created .

       We request that the property be changed to the RM zone. The property is surrounded
       by residential uses. And the RM zone exists in several nearby locations of the same
       type. Brighton Lofts, LLC proposed a modest density of six town home units on the
       property. These will be brick brownstone townhomes perpendicular to Bengal
       Boulevard, and facing the public street of Oak Shadows Circle, as shown on the
       attached drawing. Brighton Lofts, LLC intends to keep the sales price in the
       attainable range for Cottonwood Heights.


    2. Benefit to the City:
       This zoning change will benefit Cottonwood Heights City for the following reasons:

       a.     The rezone will eliminate a mis-zoned property that is unusable currently and
       creating a blight on the neighborhood.

       b.     The rezone will convert the property to a use that is more compatible with
       surrounding uses.

       c.     The rezone will result in a beautiful development on the property that wilt
       improve Bengal Boulevard and positively affect nearby property values.

       d.     The rezone wilt contribute to the attainable housing stock in Cottonwood
       Heights City, is to benefit the city with added housing stock at an attainable price,
       without a large increase in density.
3.   Original codified zone of NC: Brighton Lofts, LLC believes that the current NC zone
     was not selected by Cottonwood Heights, but a holdover from the County zoning at
     the time of annexation. It may have been adequate in the past, but even a bank has
     been unable to remain viable in the location. It is unlikely to any other commercial
     use will have a different outcome, because of this site's non-prime location. Non-
     prime retail space has a vacancy rate of 23.8% while prime retail space enjoys a
     vacancy rate of 4.4%.


4. Benefit to the community as a whole: Bengal Boulevard is part of the heart of
     Cottonwood Heights. Long experience has provided all of the information that is
     needed. We know what works and what does not work on Bengal Boulevard. If NC
     worked at this location, rezoning would not be a question. However, as
     demonstrated by many other properties along Bengal Boulevard, RM zoning works.
     The development planned here is low density, and low burden on the City, while
     providing many benefits, and a beautiful new use at the property that the City can be
     proud of.
7/11/25, 6:59 PM                                                             Print Preview


 19.34 RM - Residential Multi-Family Zone
 19.34.010 Pumose Of Chapter
 19.34.020 Permitted Uses
 19.34.030 Conditional Uses
 19.34.040 Minimum Lot Size
 19.34.050 Minimum Lot Width
 19.34.060 Setbacks/Yard Reguirements
 19.34.070 Maximum Height Of Structures
 19.34.080 Maximum Lot Coverag§.
 19.34.090 O12en Space Reguirement
 19.34.100 Master Develo12ment Plan Reguired

 19.34.010 PurP-ose Of ChaP-ter

 The purpose of the RM zone is to provide areas in the city for high-density residential development.

 19.34.020 Permitted Uses

 Permitted uses in the RM zone are as follows:

       A. Single-family dwellings, attached or detached ;
       B. Accessory buildings customary to multi-family and single-family residential buildings; and
       C. Home occupations.

 19.34.030 Conditional Uses

 Conditional uses in the RM zone are as follows:

       A. Bed and breakfast;
       B. Churches;
       C. Day care/pre-school , as allowed by the applicable accessory regulations in Chapter 19.76,
          "Supplementary and Qua lifying Regulations";
       D. Dwelling group, provided that;
                   1. The parcel of ground on which the dwelling group (as defined in Chapter 19.04,
                      "Definitions") is to be erected shall have an area equal to the aggregate of the minimum
                      lot areas otherwise required in the zone for the number of individual dwelling structures
                      in the group.
                   2. The distance between principal buildings shall be equal to the total side yards required in
                      the zone. The distance between principal buildings and the nearest perimeter lot line
                      shall be at least 15 feet. The distance between any bu ilding and a public street shall be
                      at least the front yard required in the zo ning district, except on corner lots the side yard
                      which faces on a pub lic street shall be at least 20 feet.
                   3. Access sha ll be provided by a private street or right-of-way from a public street; such
                      private street or right-of-way shall be at least 20 feet wide for one or two rear dwelling
                      units and at least 30 feet wide for three or more dwelling units.
                   4. A minimum of two parking spaces shall be provided for each dwelling unit. Parking
                      spaces and veh icu lar maneuvering areas shall meet city standards.

https://cottonwoodheights.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=19.34_RM_-_Residential_Multi-Family_Zone   1/4
7 /11 /25, 6:59 PM                                                               Print Preview

                     5. Every dwelling structure in the dwelling group shall be within 60 feet of an access
                        roadway or drive.
                     6. The development plan shall provide a buffer landscaped area along all property lines
                        and decorative landscaping adjacent to the buildings in appropriate locations. Solid
                        visua l fences shall be provided along all interior property lines unless the planning
                        commission approves otherwise.

        E. Golf course;
        F. Hospital;
        G. Hotel;
        H. Lodging house;
          I. Multiple unit dwellings, either apartments or condominiums;
         J. Nursing home;
        K. Offices, professions and general business;
         L. Planned unit development;
        M. Private parks and recreational grounds;
        N. Public and quasi-public use;
        0. Radio and/or television tower;
        P. Temporary structures, as allowed by the applicable accessory regulations in Chapter 19.76,
           "Supplementary and Qualifying Regulations";
        Q. Two-family dwellings;
        R. Utility stations and lines, as allowed by the applicable accessory regulations in Chapter 19.76,
           "Supplementary and Qualifying Regulations"; and
        S. Public schools.

 19.34.040 Minimum Lot Size

 The minimum lot size in the RM zone is 10,000 square feet for each single-family or two-family
 dwelling, with 2,000 extra square feet for each additional unit in a building with more than one unit.

 19.34.050 Minimum Lot Width

 The minimum lot width in the RM zone is 65 feet measu red 30 feet from the front lot line.

  19.34.060 SetbacksNard Reguirements

        A. Setbacks/yard requ irements are intended to provide a description of the required space
           between buildings and property lines. Primary buildings shall maintain a minimum distance from
           property lines as follows:

             Front: 30 feet.
             Sides: On interior lots, a total of at least 25 feet between th e two side yards, with no side yard of
             less than ten feet. On corner lots, at least 30 feet on the street side and at least 10 feet on the
             interior side.


hltps ://cottonwoodheights.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name= 19.34_RM_-_Residential_ Multi-F amily_ Zone   2/4
7/11/25, 6:59 PM                                                               Print Preview

           Rear: 30 feet.

       B. Accessory buildings in the RM zone shall maintain a minimum distance from property lines as
          follows:

           Front: Accessory buildings, excluding garages, shall maintain a setback of at least six feet from
           primary buildings in the rear yard for the particular property.
           Sides: Five feet, excluding garages, on interior lots; 20 feet on street side of corner lots.
           Rear: Five feet, exclud ing garages, on interior lots; 20 feet on corner lots. Attached garages
           shall conform to the rear yard requirements of main buildings. Detached garages shall conform
           to the rear yard requirements of accessory buildings, provided that the garage is in the rear yard
           and at least six feet away from the main building.
           Garages: The minimum side yard for a private garage shall be eight feet, except that private
           garages and other accessory buildings located in the rear yard and at least six feet away from
           the primary building shall maintain a minimum side yard of not less than five feet.

 HISTORY
 Amended by Ord. 429 on 11712025

 19.34.070 Maximum Height Of Structures

       A. For uses where the slope of the original ground surface is greater than 15%, or if a slope
          stability hazard is present on site, the maximum structure height shall be 30 feet.
        B. All other properties sh.all maintain a maximum structure height of 35 feet.
       C. Accessory Buildings.

            No accessory building shall exceed 20 feet in height. For each foot of height over 14 feet,
            accessory buildings shall be set back from property lines an additional foot from the minimum
            setback to allow a maximum height of 20 feet.

 HISTORY
 Amended by Ord. 412 on 4/9/2024

 19.34.080 Maximum Lot Coverag~

 The maximum lot coverage in the RM zone is 50%, including all structures, except portions of those
 properties also located in the Sensitive Lands Overlay Zone, for which the maximum lot coverage shall
 be 30% including all structures and impervious surfaces.

 HISTORY
 Amended by Ord. 412 on 419/2024

  19.34.090 Ogen Sgace Reguirement

  The minimum open space requ ireme nt for developments over two acres in the RM zone is 15%.

  19.34.100 Master Develogment Plan Reguired

  Any development of land in the RM zone shall be subject to the requirements of a master development
  plan approved by the planning commission.




 hltps://cottonwoodheights.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name= 19.34_RM_-_ Residential_Multi-Family_Zone   3/4
7/11/25, 6:59 PM                                                                 Print Preview




https://cottonwoodheights.municipalcodeonline. com/book/print?type=ordinances&name= 19 .34_RM_-_ Residential_ Multi-F amily_Zone   4/4
        Cottonwood Heights
        Cuy brtu~m 1hr rn11JYJ11J




        Appendix 4

     STAFF REPORT
Employee Handbook Training

      Barbara Higgins
                                                                                 ~                    1.1',,
                                                                                     ~~o~~ood                    Heights
                                                                                      c,,,,,,,,...,.,..,,,J.rr,,,,,,..,.,




Meeting Requested:            Business Meeting □    Work Session IZI   Other □
Public Hearing Needed?        Yes D No IZI Undetermined D
                              Denied D Approved IZI Con inued D
CM Approval or Denial
                              CM Signature:--~

Employee Handbook Training w ill be presented by Barbara Higgins.
             Cottonwood Heights
             C11y bm,vm the rtJll)lJIIJ




             Appendix 5

          STAFF REPORT
Short-Term Rental Software Discussion
        Councilmember Hyland
Meeting Requested:           Business Meeting D     Work Session ~    Other D
Public Hearing Needed?       Yes □ No ~ Undetermined □
                             Denied D Approved IZl Con inued D
CM Approval or Denial
                             CM Signature: - -~ J i _ _

Councilmember Hyland will lead a Short-Term Rental Software Discussion.
      Cottonwood Heights
      City bm~v-m th< r.i11)Y111J




      Appendix 6

   STAFF REPORT
Arts District Discussion
    Mayor W eichers
                                                                                        ~                     ft",·' ,
                                                                                            {$~o::ood                      Heights
                                                                                              o,,1,,,r,...,.,....,,,,,,,,,,,,.,11




Meeting Requested:               Business Meeting D        Work Session IZI   Other D
Public Hearing Needed?           Yes D No IZI Undetermined D
                                 Denied D Approved IZI Con inued D
CM Approval or Denial
                                 CM Signature:- -~         ·

Mayor Weichers w ill lead an Art s District Discussion .
     Cottonwood Heights
     City httuYm 1/,r rnn)'OIIJ




    Appendix 7

 STAFF REPORT
Bike Safety Updates
Councilmember Birrell
Meeting Requested:             Business Meeting O      Work Session IZI   Other 0

Public Hearing Needed?         Yes D No IZI Undetermined D
                               Denied D     Approved IZl COJ;l!inued D
CM Approval or Denial
                               CM Signature:--~ -~

Counci lmember Birrell wil l present Bike Safety Updates.
                    ottonwood Heights
                  City brtu-«11 th( r,111:,0111




                  Appendix 8

               STAFF REPORT
Pergolas, Gazebos, and Other Open Air Accessory
                   Structures
                  Jim Spung
   e: August 19, 2025
   Discuss a potential zoning text amendment modi



                            Business Meeting □
Public Hearing Needed?      Yes D No C8l Undetermined □

 M Approval or Denial


REQUEST
Discussion of a proposed zoning text amendment to §19.76.030.B of the Municpal Code, modifying and
clarifying the minimum setback area for specific types of accessory structures, including gazebos and pergolas.


BACKGROUND

On June 16, 2025, the city received an application to amend accessory building standards associated with the
Planned Unit Development Approval for Giverny (PUD-14-001). A detailed summary and background of this
request are provided in the attached Planning Commission staff report. According to the applicant's narrative,
many property owners within the Giverny PUD Community have constructed accessory structures (gazebos
and pergolas) that do not satisfy minimum accessory building setbacks. Several of the existing nonconforming
structures are smaller than 200 square feet and do not require city review or a building permit; however, the
setback standards established in Code still apply.

On July 16, 2025, the Planning Commission held a public hearing and DENIED the applicant's request to amend
the PUD standards. The primary concern was that the amended standards would only apply to the Giverny
PUD and not consider other residential properties in the city with similar characteristics and circumstances.
The Planning Commission requested exploration of a city-wide zoning text amendment to resolve the issues
identified regarding open-air accessory structure standards.



RECOMMENDATION

City staff is requesting the Mayor and City Council weight the general merits of the requested policy change
and if a zoning text amendment should be pursued.



Attachments:

   l. CUP-25-011 Planning Commission Staff Report (with attachments)
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION                                                                         ~
STAFF REPORT                                                                    Cottonwood Heights
                                                                                City between the canyons
July 16, 2025

Summary

Project Number:
CUP-25-011 (PUD-25-001 )

Subject Properties:
Giverny Community
(Approximately 3505 E.
Giverny Pkwy.)

Action Requested:
Conditional Use Approval to
amend the Planned Unit
Development

Applicant:
Brent Johnson (on behalf of
the Giverny HOA)

Recommendation :
APPROVE

                                                     Satellite view of subject property




Background

The applicant is requesting to amend the original Planned Unit Development (PUD) approval for the
Giverny Community (PUD-14-001 ). The intent of this amendment is to incorporate new rules
regarding accessory buildings (also referred to as accesso ry structures) into the PUD. The original
approval letter for the Giverny PUD (attached here) states the following condition of approval:

       5. The setbacks and lots standards are approved as proposed, and/or amended by the
       Planning Commission.

Both the original proposal document and most recently recorded plat only reference lot setbacks
for primary structure (homes), not accessory buildings. Additionally, staff could not locate any
reference to accessory building standards in any other documents relating to the origin al PUD
approval (PUD-14-001 ), or the most recent plat amendment (SUB-17-004).

Given the absence of unique accessory building standards approved as part of the Giverny PUD,
any accessory structure constructed on a lot located within Giverny must meet the accessory
structure standards defined in code, specifically those located in the 19.26 R-1-8 zone, and in
19.76.030. B.
                                                             Planning Commission - July 16, 2025
                                                        Project CU P-25-01 1 - Giverny Community

According to the applicant's narrative, many property owners within the Giverny Community have
constructed accessory structures under the impression that because the build ings are less than
200 square feet large, they did not need a building permit (correctly so), and did not need to meet
accessory structure setbacks, including a 6' minimum distance from the primary structure
(incorrectly so). The applicant's narrative elaborates on this and includes example photographs of
noncomplying structures.



Request

Due to this confusion, as well as the fact that the Giverny Subdivision features uniquely small lot
sizes, the applicant is requesting the PUD amendment (a conditional use permit application) to
remedy this issue. The applicant wishes to modify accessory building standards specifically for the
Giverny PUD. This proposal would only apply to open-air type structures, defined as Gazebos and
Pergolas within city code (19.76.030). This proposal would not apply to other accessory structure
types, such as sheds, detached garages, swimming pools and hot tubs, playgrounds, elevated
decks, etc.

The applicant is proposing the following deviations from city code:

 City Standards                                     Proposed Modification
 Minimum 3' setback from side and rear              Minimum 5' setback from side and rear
 property lines                                     property lines
 Minimum 6' distance from primary structure         No minimum distance from primary structure



Although the applicant's narrative has additional modifications listed, staff is only aware of the
above-listed modifications deviating from code standards.



Ana lysis

Zoning and Land Use
Staff finds the applicant's request for an amendment to the Giverny PUD to be reasonable, given
the reduced lot standards found within the Giverny Subdivision that complicate accessory building
construction on lots within the community. Additionally the proposed modifications would reduce
visual impact on neighboring properties, given that a slightly increased minimum setback would be
required for accessory buildings compared to the standard city code.

Because city code lists planned unit developments as a conditional use in the R-1-8 zone, staff has
processed this PUD amendment application as a conditional use permit. As a conditional use, this
application is entitled to approval unless reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to mitigate
negative impacts of the use. The following excerpt from Utah State Code further describes this:



                                                                                            Page 2 of 5
                                                               Planning Commission - July 16, 2025
                                                          Project CUP-25-011 - Giverny Community

        i) A land use authority shall approve a conditional use if reasonable conditions are
           proposed, or can be imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental
           effects of the proposed use in accordance with applicable standards. (10-9a-507-2)


        (ii) The requirement described in Subsection (2/(a)(i) to reasonably mitigate anticipated
             detrimental effects of the proposed conditional use does not require elimination of the
             detrimental effects. (10-9a-507-2)

Building Code

At the time of publication of this staff report, staff is awaiting feedback from the Building Official
James Short, regarding any implications the proposal would have on building code. If additional
implications are stated by the Building Official, staff will post a supplementary memo relaying
information. If no implications are found, staff will address this in the public meeting on July 16,
2025.




Conditional Use Pe rmit Procedu re and Aut hority

The Planning Commission is the approval authority for amendments to approved plans and
specifications for a PUD, as referenced in 19.78.160 and 19.78.170:

    19. 78. 160.B. Amendments to approved plans and specifications for a PUD shall be approved
    by the planning commission and a new set of approved plans will be issued by staff to address
    any approved amendments.

    19. 78. 170 Scope Of Planning Commission Action; Appeals

    1. It is the intent of this chapter that site and building plans for a PUD shall be prepared by a
       designer or team of designers having professional competence in urban planning as
       proposed in the application. The planning commission shall require the applicant to engage
       such a qualified designer or design team.
    2. The planning commission may deny an application for a PUD.
    3. In approving an application, the planning commission may attach such conditions as it
       deems necessary to secure compliance with the purposes set forth in this title and to
       mitigate any impacts that a PUD may impose on the surrounding people and properties.
    4. The action of the planning commission may be appealed to the city's appeals hearing
       officer or other appeal authority under Chapter 19. 92 of this title.

The details of such authority on conditional use approval of the project are included below:

        Following any public hearing, the planning commission shall consider the application in a
        public meeting. The staff's written recommendation shall be considered, among other
        factors. The planning commission may either approve the proposed conditional use;
        approve the proposed conditional use subject to specific modifications or conditions;



                                                                                              Page 3 of 5
                                                                Planning Commission - July 16, 2025
                                                          Project CUP-25-01 1 - Giverny Community

         postpone decision pending consideration of additional information to be submitted by the
         applicant; or deny the proposed conditional use. (19.84. 080)

         A conditional use shall be approved if reasonable conditions are proposed, or can be
         imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use in
         accordance with applicable standards. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of
         a proposed conditional use cannot be substantially mitigated by the proposal or the
         imposition of reasonable conditions to achieve compliance with applicable standards, the
         conditional use may be denied. (19.84.020)




Noticing

Per code requirement, notices were posted and mailed at least 1 0 days prior to the meeting.
Individual letters were sent to property owners within 300 feet of the subject property. The notice
was also posted to the city website and bulletin boards at City Hall.

The application was noticed under the file number PUD-25-001. Staff has since updated the
application to reflect what it believes to be the correct file type for this application - a conditional
use permit.



Findings
Findings of fact include:

    1.  That the proposed use is one of the conditional uses specifically listed in the zoning district
        in which it is to be located;
    2. That such use will not, under the circumstances of the particular case, be detrimental to the
        health, safety, comfort, order or general welfare of persons residing or working in the
        vicinity;
    3. That the use will comply with the intent, spirit, and regulations of this title and will be
        compatible with and implement the planning goals and objectives of the city;
    4. That the use will be harmonious with the neighboring uses in the zoning district in which it is
        to be located;
    5. That nuisances which would not be in harmony with the neighboring uses, will be abated by
        the conditions imposed;
    6. That protection of property values, the environment, and the tax base for the city will be
        assured;
    7. That the use will comply with the city's general plan;
    8. That some form of a guaranty assuring compliance to all imposed conditions will be
        imposed on the applicant or owner;
    9. That the internal circulation system of the proposed development is properly designed;
    10. That existing and proposed utility services will be adequate for the proposed development;
    11. That appropriate buffering will be provided to protect adjacent land uses from light, noise
        and visual impacts;


                                                                                               Page 4 of 5
                                                             Planning Comm ission -July 16, 2025
                                                        Project CUP-25-011 - Giverny Commun ity

   12. That architecture and building materials are consistent with the development and
       surrounding uses, and otherwise compatible with the city's general plan, subdivision
       ordinance, land use ordinance, and any applicable design standards;
   13. That landscaping appropriate for the scale of the development and surrounding uses will be
       installed in compliance with all applicable ordinances;
   14. That the proposed use preserves historical, architectural and environmental features of the
       property; and
   15. That operating and delivery hours will compatible with adjacent land uses.
   16. The foregoing approval standards shall be subject to any contrary requirements of Utah
       Code Ann. § 10-9a-507, as amended.



Recommendation & Model Mot io ns
Based on the findings and analysis presented herein, staff recommends approval of project CUP-
25-011

Approval

I move to approve project CUP-25-011 based on the findings and recommendations listed in the
staff report dated July 16, 2025 ...

   •     List any additional findings or recommendations for approval...

Denial
I move to deny project CUP-25-011 based on the following findings:

   •     List findings for denial...




Attachments
   1. Project Narrative
   2. Original Approval Letter (pg. 1)




                                                                                        Page 5 of 5
Modification of Accessory Structure Setbacks for the Planned Unit
Development Approval for Giverny (PUD-14-001)

July 18, 2025, Planning Commission Hearing

Project Narrative

When a typical R1-8 lot is approved (8000 SF Lot) it would have building setbacks of 8'
and 12' on the side yards, 25' in the front, and 20' in the rear.

When the Giverny project was approved it was done so with smaller homesites that had
smaller building setbacks. In this community , the lots average around 5000 SF, and the
side setbacks are 5' on both sides, 18' in the front, and either 1O' or 15' in the rear.

When an owner at Giverny proposes to build an accessory building on their lot it creates
some challenges in the community since the lots are much smaller. As can be seen from
the diagram below (approved City guidelines for this type of structure) this is based on
what would be a typical 8000 SF lot. These larger lots can much more easily
accommodate this type of structure and can maintain the proper setbacks.

                                          J'
 Accessory structvre ca n be:                      3'    Accessor y structure he ight cannot
 25% of r ear yard                                       e xceed that of the p rimary structure

 70% o f main b uild i ng         20'


                                                                                          20' mo~




                                        ••••. 12' ....




              :'
              :''
              ..
          2s· :'
                                                         ~ The sid e end rea r setbacks increase b y one
                                                         foot for each foot over 14 f eet in height




               ..
              ''
               '            15'




Many of the Owners in Giverny have built Accessory Buildings and did not understand
the requirements. They believed that since their structure was under 120 SF they did not
need a permit, nor that they needed to follow any setback guidelines. However, based
on the current guidelines almost all these structures are not in conformance and would
need to be modified or torn down.

As such, the primary purpose of this submittal is to request some modified setbacks for
Accessory Buildings for the Giverny Community which will allow many of the existing
structures to remain and to create a standard for new structures moving forward.
                        Mod ification of Giverny Accessory Building Setbacks: June 4, 2025


Proposed Design Guidelines

The structures that we would propose this modification for are all more open-air type
structures (no walls) with three or four sides being open. The roof is either an open-air
pergola with roof slats, or, some have a full roof on them. None of these structures are
attached to the home or are habitable spaces. Examples include the following :

Detached Patio Cover with Covered Roof




Detached Open Air Pergola and Detached Covered Pergola




                                            2
                      Modification of Giverny Accessory Building Setbacks: June 4, 2025


Detached Open Air Pergola




Detached Open Air Pergola with Bar Seating and Gas BBQ




                                         3
                            Modification of Giverny Accessory Building Setbacks: June 4, 2025


Modification to Setbacks of Accessory Building Standards


We are proposing to maintain the current city standards regarding Accessory Buildings
with some modifications to the setbacks as shown below. The same standard would
apply to all lots within the Giverny community.

   Accessory Building Standards: The following city standards will remain.

   •   Needs to be a minimum of 5' away from any rear and side fences .
   •   The structure cannot be more than 25% of the surface area of the rear yard which
       is measured from the back of the home.
   •   It cannot exceed 20' in height, and the setbacks increase by 1' for each foot over
       14' in height. In other words, if you had a 17' tall structure you would need to be
       8' from the fences. (5' standard+ 3' for height over 14 feet)

   Modified Accessory Building Standards: The following city standards will be modified.

   •   The structure can be located within 6' of the home but not attached.
   •   The posts of the structure cannot be located closer than 5' to the rear or side
       setback line as this would trigger the requirement for a one-hour fire rated wall
       assembly.
   •   The roof of the structure may overhang the posts by up to 36".
   •   The exception would be that the structure posts can be up to 3' away if opening is
       8' or less in height so fire rated wall (based upon a 75% coverage of opening from
       the ground up) can be at a height not to exceed 6'. By doing this the fire rated wall
       will be at or near the height of the adjacent owner's fence . Typical details are
       shown below. This example has a 7' tall wall:




                 7 ' - ,,                                   8'0"
                            1.sx..1 . S STEEL '1RELUS




                                                        4
                                Modification of Giverny Accessory Bu ilding Set backs: June 4, 2025


   These types of structures automatically require the need for a building permit. These
   are as follows:

   •   ANY structure that is attached to the house. If a structure is attached to the home
       that it MUST be within the building setback lines. For lots in Giverny this means
       either 10' (Lots 301-351 only) or 15' (all other Lots) from the back and at least 5'
       from the side fences.
   •   Any structure that has electricity in it.
   •   Structures that are over 120 SF in total size.
   •   Structures that are over 11' in height.


Based on the proposed changes the modified setbacks allowed would be based on the
changes shown in red below. Minimum setbacks for the Giverny lots were also shown in
red as well.

                                                    i 3'
  Accessory structvre can be:              5'       c._____, 3•       Accessory structvre height cannot
  25% of rear yard
  70% of main bullding
                                                o~~                   exceed that of the primary structure

                                  20'
                                                I
                                   10' or 15'   1
                                                : 6 mln'
                                                I
                                                1   Nominimun




                                                            12·


                                                       5'




                                                                      "' The side and rear setbacks increase by one
          25'
                                                                      foot for each foot over 14 feel in height



                            15'




                                                                  5
                        Modification of Giverny Accessory Building Setbacks: June 4, 2025



Conclusion

Since the Giverny community was approved with smaller setbacks it makes sense that
the community should also have smaller setbacks for Accessory Buildings. Our request
to make this change is to allow owners to have the ability to add these types of
structures while maintaining fire protections under the building code.

It is understood by the Giverny owners that any new structures submitted will need to be
reviewed by the Giverny HOA, and, if required, a permit is issued by the City. Any
existing structures that were not issued a building permit will need to be modified to be
in conformance with these revised standards, or, if that is not possible they will need to
be removed.




                                             6
Mr. Richard Cook
Giverny, LLC
8280 Etienne Way
Sandy, Utah 84093

RE: Preliminary Approval of PUD-14-001 Giverny PUD

Mr. Cook,

This letter is to memorialize that the Planning Commission of the City of Cottonwood Heights
granted preliminary approval of project PUD-14-001 at its meeting held on January 7, 2015. The
approval allows for a 165-lot Planned Unit Development, Giverny PUD, on the property located
at 9160 Wasatch Boulevard. Per Zoning Ordinance chapter 19.78 (Planned Unit Developments),
final approval shall be based on approval of construction drawings and specifications and
satisfaction of all conditions of approval. Conditions of final approva l are as follows:

1.     Approval of this project constitutes a conditional use permit.
2.     Approval of this project constitutes approval of the planned unit development
       subdivision.
3.     The developer shall establish acceptable design guidelines, in a formalized manner, to
       be approved by staff as part of the final plat approval of the PUD.
4.     The proposed PUD shall be owned and maintained by a single or partnership Limited
       Liability Company, corporate entity, or jointly filed by all owners of land.
5.     The setbacks and lots standards are approved as proposed, and/or amended by the
       Planning Commission.
6.     Lots covered by at least fifty percent (50%) of the Sensitive Lands Overlay Zone shall
       have a height limitation of thirty (30) feet.
7.     In addition to the proposed sidewalk system, the developer shall provide enhanced
       intersection treatments, such as textured paving, to highlight pedestrian crossings, as
       agreeable and approved by the city engineer.
8.     Gates are allowed in accordance with the provisions of Title 12 and Title 14 of the
       Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code.
9.     Fencing is limited to rear (and side yards for corner lots), and the perimeter, unless
       approved by staff for mitigating purposes.
10.    Fences within the project shall not exceed six (6) feet in height.
11.    Only one monument entry sign shall be allowed. The sign shall be limited to six (6) feet
       in height and no more than thirty-six (36) square feet in size. The sign shall be setback at
       least three (3) feet from the adjacent right-of-way.
12.    All easements shall be duly mitigated to the satisfaction of staff and/or their assigns
       prior to the recordation of the plat(s).
13.    Staff shall review and approve proposed fencing and gates. (per ARC 6-12-14).
14.    A six (6) foot solid visual barrier fence shall be constructed around the Smith and McGee
       properties, as agreeable with the property owners. The fen ce material shall be either
        masonry or cedar, and shall be decided by the property owners .
15.    All Sensitive Lands Areas shall be shown on Final Plat.
16.     Lots within the Sensitive Lands Overlay Zone shall have a minimum 3,500 square foot
        buildable area and a minimum dimension of fifty (SO) feet.
  Cottonwood Heights
  City '"/IIY(II tl1t <'111)0111




  Appendix 9

STAFF REPORT
 Action Items
 Shane Topham
Tiffany Janzen

From:                           Shane Topham <WST@tophamlegal.com>
Sent:                           Tuesday, August 12, 2025 2:14 PM
To:                             Tiffany Janzen; Jared Gerber
Subject:                        [EXT:]Legislation for August 19th City Council Meeting
Attachments:                    WST-Cottonwood Height s-Ordinance 441-A Approving 3526 East Fort Union Blvd.
                                General Plan Amendment.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Ord inance 442-A App roving
                                Rezone of 3526 East Fort Union Blvd.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2025-54
                                Approving Development Agreement (3 526 East Fort Union Blvd.).pdf; 3526 E Ft Union
                                Development Agreement.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2025-62 Approving
                                Disposal of Unclaimed Property or Former Evidence.pdf; 2025 Finished Property List w
                                Photos.pdf; Firearm Disposal 2025.pdf; Gift Cards 3-2025.pdf; WST-Cottonwood
                                Heights- Resolution 2025-63 Approving lnterlocal with SLCo and GSLMSD for Processing
                                Tavaci Applications.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-lnterlocal Agreement with SLCo and
                                GSLMSD re Tavaci Permits and Applicati ons (8. 12.25).pdf



Greetings-

Drafts of the following items of legislation scheduled for consideration at the August 19t h city council
business meeting are attached for your review and comment:

      1. Ordinance 441-A. This ordinance will approve amending the city's general plan to change the land
         use map designation of the referenced parcel of realty from Residential Office to Residential
         Medium Density. This approval is conditioned on the prior execution, delivery and recording of the
         development agreement contemplated by proposed Resolution 2025-54.

      2. Ordinance 442-A. This ordinance will approve rezoning the referenced parcel of realty from R-1-8
         to R-2-8 and will amend the zoning map accordingly. Approval of this ordinance will only be
         appropriate if Ordinance 379-A approving a general plan amendment for the subject realty is
         approved. Further, this approval is conditioned on the prior execution, delivery and recording of
         the development agreement contemplated by proposed Resolution 2025-54.

      3. Resolution 2025-54. This resolution will approve the city's entry into a development agreement
         with Land Development LLC imposing certain limitations on the proposed development of
         approximately .95 acre of realty located at 3926 Fort Union Blvd. in the city. This resolution is
         related to Ordinances 441-A and 442-A, above. A copy of the proposed development agreement
         also is attached.

      4. Resolution 2025-62. CHPD has requested permission to dispose of numerous items of personal
         property that are either unclaimed or no longer needed as evidence, following the statutory
         process. Descriptions of the items also are attached.

      5. Resolution 2025-63. The Tavaci development was annexed into the city effective 1 July 2025. This
         resolution will approve the city's entry into an interlocal agreement with Salt Lake County and the
         Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District whereunder the parties will cooperatively process
         and transfer development applications affecting realty within Tavaci w hich were filed before the
         annexation's effective date. A copy of the proposed interlocal agreement also is attached.
                                                         1
Please contact me as soon as possible if there are any questions or concerns regarding the attachments.

Best regards-

Shane

WM. SHANE TOPHAM I Attorney I TOPHAM LEGAL
4930 Fairview Drive, Holladay, UT 84117
tel+801.808.6325 I Bio

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: The content of this e-mail is confidential and proprietary and may be attorney-client
privileged. If you are not the intended recipient, please destroy it and notify: wst@tophamlega l.com.



EXTERNAL ATTACHMENT: Only Open if you trust this sender.




                                                        2
                           Cottonwood Heights
                           City Wlll't'm thr ~•lll)OIIJ




          CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING


                         Attachment 1
                      Ordinance -441-A
This ordinance will approve amending the city's general plan to
change the land use map designation of the referenced parcel of
 realty from Residential Office to Residential Medium Density.
This approval is conditioned on the prior execution, delivery and
   recording of the development agreement contemplated by
                 proposed Resolution 2025-54.
                                                                                             C a a - ,1,
                                                                                              l@~~;~vood
                                                                                                o,,
                                                                                                         Heights
                                                                                                   ~ l ll'ff'll 1hr lii"J"'II




                            Business Meeting □
Public Hearing Needed?      Yes D No ~ Undetermined D
                            Denied □ Appr                       □
 M Approval or Denial       CM Signature:                   ,,,..__ __


REQUEST
Introduction and discussion of a proposed general plan land use map amendment and rezone of the parcel
located at 3526 E. Fort Union Boulevard. The applicant is proposing to amend the General Plan land use map
from Residential Office to Residential Medium Density, and to subsequently rezone the property from R-1-8
(single-family residential) to R-2-8 (multi-family residential) to subdivide and construct three twin homes on
the parcel.


BACKGROUND

Detailed summary and background of this request, including the applicant's previous attempts at similar
proposals (considered and denied by the Council in 2022) is provided in the attached Planning Commission
staff report.

At its May 7, 2025 meeting, the Planning Commission took public comment and unanimously recommended
APPROVAL of both the land use map request and the rezone request.



RECOMMENDATION

The Planning Commission voted unanimously to recommend APPROVAL of the proposed amendments.



Attachments:

   1. ZMA-25-002 Planning Commission Staff Report (with attachments)
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION
STAFF REPORT                                                                 ottonwood Heights
                                                                            City between rhe canyons

May 7, 2025

Summary
Project Number:
ZMA-25-002

Subject Property:
3526 E. Fort Union Blvd.

Action Requested:
Zoning Map Amend.
Land Use Map Amend.

Applicant:
Adam Nash
(Land Development LLC)

Recommendation:
APPROVE


Co ntext
Property Owner:
Land Development
LLC

Acreage:
0.95 acre




Request
The owner of 3526 E. Fort Union Blvd. has applied for amendments to the city's General Plan Land
Use Map (future vision for general use type on a parcel) and Zoning Map (current codified standards
that regulate use and development of a parcel) for the property, as follows:

    •   Current land use designation - Residential Office
    •   Proposed land use designation - Residential Medium Density


    •   Current zoning designation - R-1-8 (Residential single-family)
    •   Proposed z.oning designation - R-2-8 (Residential multi-family)
                                             Planning Commission - May 7, 2025
                           Project ZMA-25-002-3526 E. Fort Union Blvd.



         CURRENT LAND USE DESIGNATION

                 Residential Office

' ..,,
                                 I




                                       ..
                                           .. .
                                     D •
                       •   •                  I




                               : <            !
                                              I




         PROPOSED LAND USE DESIGNATION

             Residential Medium Density




                                                                     Page2of8
                                                                Plann ing Commission-May 7, 2025
                                                       Project ZMA-25-002- 3526 E. Fort Union Blvd.

                                   CURRENT ZONING DESIGNATION

                                    R-1-8 (Residential Single-Family)

I               ··,, .                                                  ✓
                       • \ ":.-




~
     /

J
          ""

l I
                                   PROPOSED ZONING DESIGNATION

                                     R-2-8 (Residential Multi-Family)

I                 ,,                                                    J
                                                 -Jl      /

                                                   V
'          ',
                \
  ~· .
    . ->- '•,,.
_,,.,.,..,,..
                              -~
       /                  /
> .~

 II                           1


                                                                                          Page 3 of 8
                                                              Planning Commission - May 7, 2025
                                                   Project ZMA-25-002- 3526 E. Fo rt Union Blvd .

Background
The applicant has previously requested this same land use and zoning amendment in 2022, as well
as a subsequent application to amend the property's zoning from R-1-8 to Residential Office. Both
requests received recommendations of approval by staff and the Planning Commission, but were
denied by the City Council (copies of denial ordinances are attached).

After those previous applications being denied, the applicant then pursued administrative approval
of a 3-lot single-family subdivision on the property. The applicant submitted compliant plans, and
installed many of the required public improvements (curb, gutter, sidewalk, etc.) required as part of
the city's subdivision process, but never recorded the final subdivision plat.

This new land use and zoning request is identical to the applicant's first request in 2022. The full
application narrative is attached, but the general rationale provided for making this request and not
moving forward with the single-family subdivision is that, 'A change has occurred in the housing
market. Affordable housing has become unheard of. The type of housing that can be built in this [R-
2-8] zone tend[s] to be less expensive than new Single Family Residential,' and, 'I have already
improved the property. It is suitable for R-2-8.'

While it would be subject to a separate administrative subdivision and application process, it is the
applicant's intent to pursue the same 3-lot subdivision that has previously been improved, but to
construct three two-family dwellings (six total units) rather than three single-family dwellings.



            CURRENT APPROVED R-1-8 SUBDIVISION PLAN (final plat not recorded)




                                                                                           Page4of8
                                                                                                  Planning Commission -May 7, 2025
                                                                                        Project ZMA-25-002 - 3526 E. Fort Union Blvd .



Analysis & Findi ngs

Background

The original Cottonwood Heights Land Use Map adopted in 2005 designated most properties along
Fort Union Blvd. as 'Mixed Use,' including properties east of 2700 E. In 2019, the City Council
amended the land use map for the eastern section of Fort Union so that the properties facing
neighborhood streets would be 'Residential Low Density' and properties facing Fort Un ion would
be either 'Residential Office' or 'Residential Medium Density.'

This change was requested by the City Council because of concerns that the area would not be
compatible with mixed-use development and would be more suited to less intense land uses.
Office and Medium Density land uses were selected so that new investment in the area could still
be encouraged, but in a way that would not overwhelm the predominantly residential character of
the area. The subject property was changed to 'Residential Office.'


                                                       E~                r
                                                  ljr
                                                               0
                                                                t~l ~- '




                                                                             •              - .
                                                                                 ,.,u   .


                                     -
                                     \
                                     1i
          lblqon
    o ,-,,
    - -""
    -     Rloil:- , : : ~



    ---
    -

    D
          c.,._

          ff>;."e-C..Tl;°PCM
    Ill RN>-• ~ · ~
    t:::i R.-.1J..:■ Ulo>l."T~'.";
                                     , -, ~ ~ ~ -


    i J] Rt..1. .ui1.:w0.S,,,
    0
    -
    o~...
          R¥-.-w.,,,.0-.'I'
          C!l9•"--
                   i-
                                          t
                                         .~ ,,.. #.
                                              rt__.,
                                              ~         ...__::.--,.--




                                                                                                                            Page 5 of 8
                                                                Planning Co mmission -May 7, 2025
                                                    Project ZMA-25-002- 3526 E. Fort Union Blvd .

Previous Applications

The project applicant previously submitted two separate applications (ZMA-22-001 and ZMA-22-
002) in an effort to rezone the property to R-2-8, and then to Residential Office. As stated
previously, both applications received positive recommendations from staff and the Planning
Commission, but were denied by the City Council. Denial ordinances for those applications state
the reason for denial as being, 'it is in the best interest of the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the City to deny re-zoning the Property ... notwithstanding the Planning Commission's
recommendation of approval.' Full copies of denial ordinances are attached for reference, with
both denial actions taking place in 2022.

Procedure

Zoning map amendments are legislative actions, meaning that the Planning Commission's
authority is to take public comment, discuss the merits of the proposal, and make
recommendations to the City Counci l. The City Council is the final approval authority for this
application.

Chapter 19.90.01 O of the Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code details the procedure for zoning
map amendments:

       19.90.10Amendment Procedure.
       A. The city council may, from time to time, amend the number, shape, boundaries or area
          of any zone or any regulation within any zone or any other provisions of the zoning
          ordinance. The city council may not make any amendment authorized by this
          section unless the amendment is proposed by the planning commission or was
          first submitted to the planning commission for its recommendation. To become
          effective, zoning amendment applications which have received the positive
          recommendation of the planning commission must first receive the favorable vote
          of not less than a majority of the entire membership of the city council.
       B. Zoning amendment applications which receive a recommendation of denial by the
          planning commission shall thereafter be considered by the city council. ... The city
          council, after review of the recommendation by the planning commission, may affirm,
          reverse, alter or remand for further review and consideration any recommendations
          made by the planning commission.


Further, Chapter 19.90 establishes minimum timelines that require at least one year after Council
disapproval of a rezone and/or general plan amendment application before an application can be
made for the same zone classification again (19.90.050 / 19.90.100).

The subject application is compliant with the above codified requirements.

Staff Analysis

Staff finds that the request to amend the land use map from 'Residential Office' to 'Residential
Medium Density' and the zoning map from R-1-8 (Residential Single-Family) to R-2-8 (Residential
Multi-Family) is generally compatible w ith the city's long-range vision and goals for the area for t he
following reasons:


                                                                                             Page6of8
                                                              Plan ning Commission - May 7, 2025
                                                   Project ZMA-25-002 - 3526 E. Fort Union Blvd.

   •   Residential uses (single-family and two-family dwellings) are permitted uses in the R-2-8
       zone. Other than home occupations, no commercial or office uses are permitted in the
       proposed zone.
   •   The designated land use of the adjacent property to t he east is also 'Residential Medium
       Density.' This property is in the R-1-8 zone but has two legal non-conforming two-family
       dwellings that were built in 1978.
   •   The RO (Residential Office) zone allows twin homes as a conditiona l use. A twin home
       development would be possible in both the RO zone and the R-2-8 zone.
   •   'Residential Medium Density' was one of the land uses considered and approved for other
       properties along this segment of the Fort Union corridor.
   •   The future layout and lot development standards (lot size, setbacks, building heights, etc.)
       do not differ substantia lly from corresponding standards in the R-1-8 zone. In either the R-
       1-8 or R-2-8 zone, the property supports a maximum of three residential structures with
       similar development standards.
   •   Under the R-2-8 designation, the maximum anticipated number of dwelling units would be
       six (in three structures). Accessory dwelling units are prohibited in the R-2-8 zone but are
       permitted in the R-1-8 zone. The projected im pact of three two-family structures is similar
       to the impact of three single-family stru ctures, particularly since single-family homes could
       also be approved for accessory dwelling units (R-2-8 zoning prohibits t he operation of
       ADUs)




Noticing
Notices were posted and mailed at least 10 days prior to the meeting. Individual letters were sent
to property owners w ithin 1000' feet of the subject property, and a public notice sign was posted on
the property (at the time of posting, the property was inaccessible by public right-of-way due to
road closures as part of the Metropolitan Water pipeline reconstruction project).



Find ings
Findings of fact include:

   1. A public hearing is being held in accordance with local and state requirements;
   2. The proposed zoning designation is compatible with the surrounding developed area, and
      with the underlying land use designation of the subject property;
   3. The public will not be materially injured by the proposed amendment, and there is good
      cause for the amendment.




Recommendation & Model Mot ions
Based on the findings and analysis presented herein, staff recommends that t he Planning
Commission forward a recommendation of approval of project ZMA-25-002 t o the City Council
(Note -two sepa rate motions and votes will be required - one for the proposed land use map


                                                                                          Page7of8
                                                               Plann ing Com mission -May 7, 2025
                                                    Project ZMA-25-002-3526 E. Fort Union Blvd.

amendment, and one f or the proposed zone map amendment. Both projects have the same project
reference number).

Approval

I move to recommend approval of project ZMA-25-002 to the City Council based on the findings and
recommendations listed in the staff report dated May 7, 2025 ...

   •     List any additional findings or recommendations for approval. ..

Denial

I move to recommend denial of project ZMA-25-002 to the City Council based on the following
findings:

   •     List findings for denial ...



ATTACHMENTS

   •     App licant's Na rrative
   •     Previous Application Denial Ordinances




                                                                                       Page 8 of8
                       Cottonwood Heights Rezone Application Narrative
                                  3526 E. Fort Union Blvd.
                               Parcel ID: 22-25-152-020-0000


Cottonwood Heights Planners and Commissioners:
My name is Adam Nash. I am the owner of the subject property. I have 40 years' experience in
Land Use Permits and Land and Water Development.
This request was heard and denied by the City Council 3 years ago. Since that time, I
redeveloped the property from a derelict obsolete property into vacant land ready for a housing
development. Several things have changed in the city and in the housing market since then.
These changes warrant taking another look at the opportunity a change in zoning can provide.
The 1 acre+- lot which is the subject of this zoning request is bound on the west by a duplex and
to the east by two more duplexes with the next property east used for commercial purposes.
Further away on Ft Union there are many duplexes, twin homes, commercial buildings, public
utility buildings, transmission towers, ski shops, bars, a convenience store etc. Lots of
nonresidential uses along and close to Ft Union.
When the previous zoning request was denied, I was very surprised. A community meeting had
been held, and the Planning Commission forwarded a positive recommendation for approval. It
turned out that some residents opposed the request. They were opposed the rezone because the
R-2-8 zone would put increased density into the neighborhood and increase traffic.
I had no idea the CC would deny the request. I didn't want to argue these points. I want to make
sure and voice my opinion now.
A density increase from 3 to 6 units is negligible. The Master Plan calls for Office/Residential
Medium use. A commercial use has much more likelihood of potential problems than R-2-8.
Traffic increase from 3-6 units is also negligible. It is also less than Single Family Residential
creates. (See the attached study) The traffic patterns from the new lots don' t even lead into the
local neighborhoods (unless they are visiting neighbors or going to church). Studies have shown
that additional traffic comes from growth in the whole valley.
A recent study done by or for Cottonwood Heights concludes that Fort Union Boulevard
continues to be one of the busiest roads within the City of Cottonwood Heights.


I' ve prepared the attached narrative to answer questions from the city. If there are other questions
that are not answered in the narrative, please give me a chance to address them. I don't want
another denial because I failed to address concerns brought up by a couple of residents.


Thank you,


Adam Nash
•   How will your proposed amendment conform to what is envisioned for the future of the
    site or area, as expressed in the General Plan?
           The property is currently planned as Residential Office according to
           the Cottonwood Heights Land Use map. The amendment seeks to
           reclassify this property as Residential Medium Density. The lot sizes
           would be like adjacent existing land uses.

•   What level and type of development currently exists in the area? If approved, how would
    development of the property under the new zoning be consistent with the existing
    development?
           Residential currently exists in this area. The surrounding land uses are
           Residential Low Density to the south Residential Medium Density
           directly to the east and west of the property. If approved, the
           developed land would continue to be a residential use.

•   If the amendment is approved, how would subsequent development affect demand on
    public services and facilities such as utilities, emergency vehicles, etc.? Can you ensure
    that any negative impact will be mitigated? How?
           The development is 3 R-2-8 lots. Demand on public services and
           facilities would be ve1y minimal. Utilities and improvements will
           follow LID standards and requirements. Homes would be built outside
           of any fault zone or sensitive land areas. There was an existing house
           and other structures on site that were removed to make way for
           redevelopment.

•   If approved, how would the amendment affect public health, safety, and/or general
    welfare?
           The land would be redeveloped into newer and more modern housing.
           Street improvements have been made on the south side of Fort Union
           Blvd where there were currently none. This has allowed for better
           passage along Fort Union Blvd for vehicles, bikers, and pedestrians.

•   Di sregarding any specific development that might be envisioned for the property
    following any proposed rezoning, discuss all the various uses that would be allowed
    under the current zoning; how would the proposed uses fit better with the area than the
    uses that are allowed under the current zoning?
           The current zoning allows for residential on lots consisting of 8,000
           square-foot lots minimum This proposed rezone would see larger lots
           with twin home or townhouse type housing. The new housing would
           be much more affordable compared with other new housing in the
           area. Throughout the area there similar housing types, specifically
           duplexes, condominiums, twin homes and townhouses.


                                              2
           This seems to be a better use than residential/offices as expressed in
           the Residential Office Land Use as a Master Planned use.

•   What has changed since the zoning classification was established that makes this request
    amendment necessary?
           Cottonwood Heights City has created the Fort Union Area Master
           Plan and 2019 Affordable Housing Plan to augment the General Plan.
           This provides for more careful consideration to the development along
           Fort Union and for the city. This development would seek to improve
           the area along Fort Union and allow for additional housing in the area.

           R-2-8 is an appropriate zone along Ft Union. These lots have no
           interior access to the adjacent lots or neighborhoods. There is no
           traffic created by the new lots except to visit neighbors or go to
           church. The 3 lots would cause no additional traffic for neighborhood.

•   Disregarding any benefit to the specific property owner or deve loper, how will your
    proposal benefit the community as a whole? How will it outweigh any negative impacts
    of the change that is proposed?
           The proposed rezone will allow for new housing in the area where it
           might not be available in other parts of the city. The new residences
           would allow for additional tax revenue for the city. Improvements
           including sidewalk, cur and gutter, storm drain, and water lines have
           been upgraded along Fort Union have been installed and has improved
           all manners

•   How does the proposed amendment fu1ther the purposes of the current zoning ordinance
    as outlined in Title 19.02.020 (" Purpose of provisions")?
           The proposed amendment would promote the welfare of surrounding
           residents and overall benefit the city by adding residential units as was
           planned for in the current zoning ordinance. Lot sizes in the proposed
           amendment would be larger than lots required in the current zoning
           ordinance.

•   Which of the following has arisen that is not properly addressed in the current zoning
    ordinance or general plan?
       o The provisions of the zoning ordinance should be brought into
         conformity with the General Plan with a Medium Density Use (of
         Residential/Office.



                                             3
o A change has occurred in the housing market. Affordable Housing has
  become unheard of. The type of housing that can be built in this zone
  tend to be less expensive than new Single Family Residential.
o I have already improved the property. It is suitable for R-2-8.


CONCLUSION: R-2-8 CREATES LESS EXPENSIVE HOUSING THAN SfNGLE
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL AND WOULD BE MUCH MORE APPROPRIATE.




                              4
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                    ORDJNANCE No. 379-D

               AN ORDINANCE DENY1NG A GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT
                F0RREALTY AT3526EASTF0RTUNI0NBLVD.FROM
               RESIDENTIAL OFFICE TO RESIDENTIAL MEDIUM DENSITY

       WHEREAS, the "Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act," UTAH CODE
ANN. §10-9a-101 et seq., as amended (the "Act"), provides that each municipality shall prepare
and adopt a comprehensive, long-range general plan; and

       WHEREAS, the Act requires the municipality's planning commission to prepare the
general plan and submit it to the municipality's legislative body; and

       WHEREAS, the Act also provides certain procedures for the municipality's legislative
body to adopt and amend the general plan; and

        WHEREAS, on 26 July 2005, following full compliance with the procedures for
formulation, public hearing and recommendation specified in UTAH CODE ANN. §§10-9a-401
through -404, the city council (the "CounciI") of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City")
enacted its Ordinance No. 24 adopting a general plan (with all previous amendments, the "Plan")
for the City; and

       WHEREAS, as authorized by statute, the Plan includes a land use element and an official
map (collectively, the "Land Use Element") allocating to each parcel ofland in the City a specific
land use designation authorized by the Plan; and

        WHEREAS, in response to an application by Adam Nash (the "Application") to amend
(the "Amendmenf') the Land Use Element affecting the parcel of realty located at 3526 East Fort
Union Blvd. from Residential Office to Residential Medium Density, on 2 March 2022, following
all required notices, a public hearing was held before the Planning Commission concerning the
proposed Amendment, where citizens were given the opportunity to provide written or oral
comment concerning the Amendment; and

        WHEREAS, a photocopy of the Amendment to the Land Use Element of the Plan
proposed by the Application is attached as an exhibit to this ordinance and is incorporated herein
by this reference; and

      WHEREAS, on 2 March 2022 the Planning Commission voted to recommend that the
Council approve the Amendment, and thereafter recommended that the Council approve the
Amendment; and

       WHEREAS, after taking additional public input concerning the proposed Amendment, the
Council met in regular meeting on 19 April 2022 to consider, among other things, approving and
adopting the Amendment to the Land Use Element of the Plan; and

     WHEREAS, after careful consideration of the recommendations of the Planning
Commission, the comments at the public hearings and public meetings, and other pertinent
info1mation, and otherwise being fully advised, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interest of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to deny the Amendment to the
Land Use Element proposed by the Application notwithstanding the Planning Commission's
recommendation of approval;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

       Section 1.      Denial o(Amemlment. The Council hereby denies the Amendment to the
Land Use Element proposed by the Application based on the findings expressed in the Council's
19 April 2022 public meeting, as well as a finding that the proposed Amendment to the Land Use
Element as to the subject property is incompatible with the land uses of ce1tain of the sunounding
prope1ties under the cunent Plan.

       Section 2.    Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in confonnity with the purpose and intent of this ordinance (this "Ordinance"),
whether taken before or after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

        Section 3.    Severabilitv. All parts of this Ordinance are severable, and if any section,
paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason, be held to be invalid or
unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section, paragraph, clause or
provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or provisions of th.is
Ordinance.

         Section 4.     Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

        Section 5.      Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 379-D, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City's Recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 19th day of April 2022.


ATTEST:                                                                       CITY COUNCIL


B
                                                                                 ----
                       ordet


                                  l>"tvv¾J ' VOTING:

                                              Michael T. Weichers           Yea )C Nay_
                                              Douglas Petersen              Yea-:b:_Nay_
                                              J. Scott Bracken              Yea_Nay~
                                              Shawn E. Newell               Yea'2::::::..Nay_
                                              Ellen BitTell                 Yea...J!=._Nay
                                                 2
DEPOSITED in the Recorder's office this 19th day of April 2022.

POSTED this .zt,day of April 2022.




                                      3
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                    ORDINANCE NO. 380-D

              AN ORDINANCE DENYING THE RE-ZONE OF REAL PROPERTY
                LOCATED AT 3526 EAST FORT UNION BLVD FR0MR-1-8
       (RESIDENTIALSINGLEFAMILY)T0R-2-8(RESIDENTIALMULTI-FAMILY)

       WHEREAS, the "Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act," UTAH CODE
ANN. §10-9a-101 et seq., as amended (the "Act"), provides that each municipality may enact a land
use ordinance and a zoning map establishing regulations for land use and development; and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the municipality's planning commission shall prepare
and recommend to the municipality's legislative body, following a public hearing, a proposed land
use ordinance and a zoning map, or amendments thereto, that represents the planning
commission's recommendations for zoning the area within the municipality; and

       WHEREAS, the Act also provides certain procedures for the municipality's legislative
body to adopt or amend the land use ordinance and zoning map for the city; and

       WHEREAS, on 14 July 2005, the city council (the "Councif') of the city of Cottonwood
Heights (the "City") enacted its Ordinance No. 25 adopting a land use ordinance for the City and
codifying such ordinance as Title 19 of the City's code of ordinances (the "Code"); and

        WHEREAS, pursuant to its Ordinance No. 25, the Council also adopted a zoning map for
the City (the '"Zoning Map"); and

        WHEREAS, on 2 March 2022 the City's planning commission (the "Planning
Commission") held a public hearing on an application by Adam Nash requesting the re-zone of a
.95 acre parcel of real property located at 3526 East Fort Union Blvd. (the "Property") from R-1-
8 (Residential Single Family) to R-2-8 (Residential Multi-Family), at which time all interested
parties were given the opportunity to provide written or oral comment concerning the proposed re-
zone; and

       WHEREAS, such public hearing before the Planning Commission was preceded by all
required legal notices; and

        WHEREAS, on 2 March 2022, the Planning Commission recommended approval of such
proposed re-zone of the Property, and forwarded such recommendation of approval to the Council
for final action; and

       WHEREAS, after taking additional public input, on 19 April 2022 the Council met in
regular meeting to consider, among other things, such proposed re-zone of the Property; and

       WHEREAS, after careful consideration of the recommendation of the Planning
Commission, comments at the public hearing and other public meetings where such proposed re-
zone was discussed, and recommendations of City staff, the Council has determined that it is in
the best interest of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to deny re-zoning the
Property as specified below, notwithstanding the Planning Commission's recommendation of
approval;
       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

       Section 1.      Denial of Re-zone to R-2-8. The Council hereby denies re-zoning the
Property from R-1-8 (Residential Single Family) to R-2-8 (Residential Multi-Family) based on,
among other findings expressed by the Council in its 19 April 2022 public meeting, the
incompatibility of the requested zoning designation with the zoning designation of certain of the
smrntmding properties under the cunent zoning map.

        Section 2.     Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance, whether taken before or
after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

       Section 3.     Severabilitv. All parts of this Ordinance are severable, and if any section,
paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason, be held to be invalid or
unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section, paragraph, clause or
provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or provisions of this
Ordinance.

         Section 4.     Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

        Section 5.      Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 380-D, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City's recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 19th day of April 2022.


ATTEST:




                                                 TING:

                                             Michael T. Weichers            Yea'£Nay_
                                             Douglas Petersen               Yea_i.._Nay_
                                             J. Scott Bracken               Yea:£._ Nay_
                                             Shawn E. Newell                Yea t'-- Nay_
                                             Ellen Birrell                  Yea -f-Nay_

       DEPOSITED in the Recorder' s office this 19th day of April 2022.

       POSTED thiszo day of April 2022.



                                                 2
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                    ORDINANCE NO. 385-D

AN ORDINANCE DENYING THE RE-ZONE OF REAL PROPERTY LOCATED AT 3526 EAST
    FORT UNION BLVD. FROM R-1-8 (RESIDENTIAL SINGLE FAMILY) TO RO-ZC
(RESIDENTIAL OFFICE WITH ZONING CONDITIONS) AND AMENDING THE ZONING MAP

       WHEREAS, the "Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act," UTAH CODE
ANN. §10-9a-l O1 et seq., as an1ended (the "Act"), provides that each municipality may enact a land
use ordinance and a zoning map establishing regulations for land use and development; and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the municipality's planning commission shall prepare
and recommend to the municipality's legislative body, following a public hearing, a proposed land
use ordinance and a zoning map, or amendments thereto, that represents the planning
commission's recommendations for zoning the area within the municipality; and

       WHEREAS, the Act also provides certain procedures for the municipality's legislative
body to adopt or amend the land use ordinance and zoning map for the city; and

       WHEREAS, on 14 July 2005, the city council (the "CounciI") of the city of Cottonwood
Heights (the "Oty") enacted its Ordinance No. 25 adopting a land use ordinance for the City and
codifying such ordinance as Title 19 of the City's code of ordinances (the "Code"); and

        WHEREAS, pursuant to its Ordinance No. 25, the Council also adopted a zoning map for
the City (the "Zoning Map"); and

        WHEREAS, on 21 June 2022 the City's planning comm1ss1on (the "Planning
Commission") held a public hearing on an application by Adam Nash requesting the re-zone of a
.85 acre parcel of real property located at 3526 East Fort Union Blvd. (the "Property") from R-1-
8 (Residential Single Family) to RO-ZC (Residential Office with Zoning Conditions), at which
time all interested parties were given the opportunity to provide written or oral comment
concerning the proposed re-zone; and

       WHEREAS, such public hearing before the Planning Commission was preceded by all
required legal notices; and

        WHEREAS, on 21 June 2022, the Planning Commission recommended approval of such
proposed re-zone of the Property, and forwarded such recommendation of approval to the Council
for final action; and

       WHEREAS, after taking additional public input, on 5 July 2022 the Council met in regular
meeting to consider, among other things, such proposed re-zone of the Property; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration of the recommendation of the Planning
Commission, comments at the public hearing and other public meetings where such proposed re-
zone was discussed, and recommendations of City staff, the Council has determined that it is in
the best interest of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to deny re-zoning the
Property as specified below, notwithstanding the Planning Commission's recommendation of
approval;
       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city cow1cil of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

       Section 1.      De11ial of Re-zone to RO-ZC. The Council hereby denies re-zoning the
Prope1iy from R-1-8 (Residential Single Family) to RO-ZC (Residential Office with Zoning
Conditions) based on, among other findings expressed by the Council in its S July 2022 public
meeting, including the incompatibility of the requested zoning designation with the zoning
designation of certain of the smTounding properties under the current zoning map.

        Section 2.     Actio11 of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance, whether taken before or
after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

       Section 3.     Severabilitv. All parts of this Ordinance are severable, and if any section,
paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason, be held to be invalid or
unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section, paragraph, clause or
provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or provisions of this
Ordinance.

         Section 4.     Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

        Section S.      Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 385-D, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City's recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 5th day of July 2022.


                                                                                TS CITY COUNCIL
                                 ,
                                                                                      '
B

                                         I '   I -~
                            ~        -   ...-su..... ~~
                            Ji. (' 2005                  (!i,.
                              '1;-;,~04 -        ~,:~ Ii

                                               -r~
                              p; P~:f~:"::~'cf' OTING:
                                     ~ -,,i 'ii'
                                                          Michael T. Weichers    Yea~Nay
                                                          Douglas Petersen       Yea')(_ Nay_
                                                          J. Scott Bracken       Yea&Nay_
                                                          Shawn E . Newell       Yea~Nay_
                                                          Ellen Birrell          Yea ';L.. Nay_

       DEPOSITED in the Recorder' s office this 5th day of July 2022.
                   I    ~

       POSTED this __12 day of July 2022.


                                                            2
                                COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                   ORDINANCE NO. 441-A

              AN ORDINANCE APPROVING A GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT
                FOR REALTY AT3526EASTFORTUNIONBLVD . FROM
               RESIDENTIAL OFFICE TO RESIDENTIAL MEDIUM DENSITY

       WHEREAS, the "Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act," UTAH CODE
ANN. §10-9a-101 et seq., as amended (the "Act"), provides that each municipality shall prepare
and adopt a comprehensive, long-range general plan; and

       WHEREAS, the Act requires the municipality's planning commission to prepare the
general plan and submit it to the municipality's legislative body; and

       WHEREAS, the Act also provides certain procedures for the municipality' s legislative
body to adopt and amend the general plan; and

        WHEREAS, on 26 July 2005, following full compliance with the procedures for
formulation, public hearing and recommendation specified in UTAH CODE ANN. § § 10-9a-401
through -404, the city council (the "CounciI") of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City" )
enacted its Ordinance No. 24 adopting a general plan (with all previous amendments, the "Plan")
for the City; and

       WHEREAS, as authorized by statute, the Plan includes a land use element and an official
map (collectively, the "Land Use Element") allocating to each parcel of land in the City a specific
land use designation authorized by the Plan; and

        WHEREAS, in response to an application by Adam Nash (the "Application") to amend
(the "Amendment") the Land Use Element affecting the parcel of realty located at 3526 East Fort
Union Blvd. (the "Property" ) from Residential Office to Residential Medium Density, on 7 May
2025, following all required notices, a public hearing was held before the Planning Commission
concerning the proposed Amendment, where citizens were given the opportunity to provide written
or oral comment concerning the Amendment; and

        WHEREAS, a photocopy of the Amendment to the Land Use Element of the Plan
proposed by the Application is attached as an exhibit to this ordinance and is incorporated herein
by this reference; and

      WHEREAS, on 7 May 2025 the Planning Commission voted to recommend that the
Council approve the Amendment, and thereafter recommended that the Council approve the
Amendment; and

       WHEREAS, after taking additional public input concerning the proposed Amendment, the
Council met in regular meeting on 19 August 2025 to consider, among other things, approving and
adopting the Amendment to the Land Use Element of the Plan; and

     WHEREAS, after careful consideration of the recommendations of the Planning
Commission, the comments at the public hearings and public meetings, and other pertinent
info1mation, and otherwise being fully advised, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interest of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to amend the Plan by adopting
the Amendment to the Land Use Element as proposed by the Application, and to ratify the Plan,
as so amended, as the City's general plan;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

       Section 1.    Adoption of New Plan. The Council hereby adopts the attached
Amendment to the Land Use Element, and hereby ratifies the Plan, as so amended, as the City' s
general plan. From and after the effective date of this ordinance (this " Ordinance"), the Plan shall
be deemed amended as specified by the Amendment for all purposes.

       Section 2.      Future Amendment of General Plan. Pursuant to the authority granted in
the Act, the Council shall have, and hereby expressly reserves, the right to hereafter fu11her amend
the Plan at any time or from time to time hereafter for any purpose upon recommendation by the
Planning Commission following all appropriate public notices and hearings required by the Act.

        Section 3.     Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance, whether taken before or
after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

       Section 4.     Severability. All parts of this Ordinance are severable, and if any section,
paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason, be held to be invalid or
unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section, paragraph, clause or
provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or provisions of this
Ordinance.

         Section 5.     Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

        Section 6.      Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 441-A, shall take immediate
effect as soon as (a) the "Development Agreement" of essentially even date herewith (concerning
the Property) between the Proper1y's Owner and the City is fully executed, delivered and recorded
in the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder, and (b) this Ordinance is published or posted as
required by law and deposited and recorded in the office of the City's Recorder, or such later date
as may be required by Utah statute.

        PASSED AND APPROVED this 19th day of August 2025.


ATTEST:                                        COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL




B y : - - - -- -- - - --                       By:-----------------
  Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                      Michael T. Weichers, Mayor

                                                  2
                                   VOTING:

                                   Michael T. W eichers         Yea_Nay_
                                   Matt Holton                  Yea_Nay_
                                   Suzanne Hyland               Yea_Nay_
                                   Shawn E. Newell              Yea_Nay_
                                   Ellen Binell                 Yea_Nay _

DEPOSITED in the Recorder' s office this 19th day of August 2025.

POSTED this _ day of August 2025.




                                       3
    CURRENT LAND USE DESIGNATION

           Residential Otfice




                           ll!lJll1\1
                   ,.
                           '
                  ..           .




                                   =
                                   ~


            ~
           ~~




1



    PROPOSED LAND USE DESIGNATION

        Residential Medium Density




                                        (l9

                                        C)

                       4
                           Cottonwood Heights
                           Cuy brtuYm 1hr ranyo11J




                         Attachment 2
                      Ordinance - 442-A
This ordinance will approve rezoning the referenced parcel of
realty from R-1-8 to R-2-8 and will amend the zoning map
accordingly. Approval of this ordinance will only be appropriate
if Ordinance 379-A approving a general plan amendment for the
subject realty is approved. Further, this approval is conditioned
on the prior execution, delivery and recording of the
development agreement contemplated by proposed Resolution
2025-54.
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                   ORDINANCE NO. 442-A

  AN ORDINANCE APPROVING THE RE-ZONE OF REAL PROPERTY LOCATED AT 3526
   EAST FORT UNION BLVD. FROM R-1-8 (RESIDENTIAL SINGLE FAMILY) TO R-2-8
         (RESIDENTIAL MULTI-FAMILY) AND AMENDING THE ZONING MAP

       WHEREAS, the "Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act," UTAH CODE
ANN. § 10-9a-101 et seq., as amended (the "Act"), provides that each municipality may enact a land
use ordinance and a zoning map establishing regulations for land use and development; and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the municipality's planning commission shall prepare
and recommend to the municipality's legislative body, following a public hearing, a proposed land
use ordinance and a zoning map, or amendments thereto, that represents the planning
commission's recommendations for zoning the area within the municipality; and

       WHEREAS, the Act also provides certain procedures for the municipality' s legislative
body to adopt or amend the land use ordinance and zoning map for the city; and

       WHEREAS, on 14 July 2005, the city council (the "CounciI'') of the city of Cottonwood
Heights (the "City") enacted its Ordinance No. 25 adopting a land use ordinance for the City and
codifying such ordinance as Title 19 of the City' s code of ordinances (the "Code"); and

        WHEREAS, pursuant to its Ordinance No. 25, the Council also adopted a zoning map for
the City (the "Zoning Map"); and

        WHEREAS, on 7 May 2025 the City' s planning cormruss10n (the "Planning
Commission") held a public hearing on an application by Adam Nash requesting the re-zone of a
.95 acre parcel ofreal prope1ty located at 3526 East Fort Union Blvd. (the "Property") from R-1-
8 (Residential Single Family) to R-2-8 (Residential Multi-Family), at which time all interested
patties were given the opp01tunity to provide written or oral comment concerning the proposed re-
zone; and

       WHEREAS, such public hearing before the Planning Commission was preceded by all
required legal notices; and

        WHEREAS, on 7 May 2025, the Planning Commission recommended approval of such
proposed re-zone of the Property, and forwarded such recommendation of approval to the Council
for final action; and

        WHEREAS, after taking additional public input, on 19 August 2025 the Council met in
regular meeting to consider, among other things, such proposed re-zone of the Property; and

       WHEREAS, after careful consideration of the recommendation of the Planning
Commission, comments at the public hearing and other public meetings where such proposed re-
zone was discussed, and recommendations of City staff, the Council has determined that it is in
the best interest of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to approve re-zoning
the Prope1ty as specified below;
       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

       Section 1.     Re-zone to R-2-8. The Council hereby re-zones the Prope1ty from R-1-8
(Residential Single Family) to R-2-8 (Residential Multi-Family).

       Section 2.      Adoption ofAmended Zoning Map. The Council hereby amends the City's
zoning map to reflect the re-zone of the Property effected by this Ordinance and hereby adopts the
amended zoning map that is attached as an exhibit hereto as the City's current zoning map for the
Property.

        Section 3.     Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance, whether taken before or
after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

       Section 4.     Severabilitv. All paits of this Ordinance are severable, and if any section,
paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason, be held to be invalid or
unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section, paragraph, clause or
provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or provisions of this
Ordinance.

         Section 5.     Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

        Section 6.      Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 442-A, shall take immediate
effect as soon as (a) the "Development Agreement" of essentially even date herewith (concerning
the Prope1ty) between the Property's Owner and the City is fully executed, delivered and recorded
in the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder, and (b) this Ordinance is published or posted as
required by law and deposited and recorded in the office of the City's Recorder, or such later date
as may be required by Utah statute.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 19th day of August 2025.

ATTEST:                                      COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By:--- - - -- --                   -         By: - -- - - - - - - - -- - - - --
 Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                        Mich aeIT. Weichers, Mayor

                                             VOTING:

                                             Michael T. Weichers            Yea _    Nay _
                                             Matt Holton                    Yea _    Nay _
                                             Suzanne Hyland                 Yea _    Nay _
                                             Shawn E. Newell                Yea _    Nay_
                                             Ellen Birrell                  Yea _    Nay _

       DEPOSITED in the Recorder' s office this 19th day of August 2025.

       POSTED this _ day of August 2025.
                                                 2
         CURREN T ZONING DESIGNATION
                                 .
                             • l Single-Family)
             R-1-8 (Resident1a




    ~
    \I
/


'~                    [((                          Z,
                      -~.                         0 (!)
             ROPOSED ZONING DESIGNATION
                                   .
         p                   • l Multi-Family)
             R-2-8 (Resident1a         --✓-




                 i
                 ;;

     •           ~
                      ... ,,,
                                                    I
                        ~c(;)   I
                                                        r

                      tP                           f
                                3
                            ottonwood Heights
                           Cuy bt111vm rhr m11J01U




                         Attachment 3
                    Resolution - 2025-54
This resolution will approve the city's entry into a development
   agreement with Land Development LLC imposing certain
limitations on the proposed development of approximately .95
acre of realty located at 3926 Fort Union Blvd. in the city. This
resolution is related to Ordinances 441-A and 442-A, above. A
 copy of the proposed development agreement also is attached.
                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                    RESOLUTION No. 2025-54

                          A RESOLUTION APPROVING A
              DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT WITH LAND DEVELOPMENT LLC
                        (3526 EAST FORT UNION BLVD.)

        WHEREAS, the city council (the "CounciI") of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City")
met in regular session on 19 August 2025 to consider, among other things, approving a development
agreement (the "Agreement") with Land Development LLC ("Developer") concerning Developer's
proposed residential development located at or near 3526 East Fo11 Union Blvd. in the City; and

      WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed the form of the Agreement, a photocopy of which is
annexed hereto; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the City's residents to approve the City' s entry into the
Agreement as proposed;

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Cottonwood Heights city council that
the attached Agreement is hereby approved, and that the City's mayor and recorder are authorized
and directed to execute and deliver the Agreement on behalf of the City.

        This Resolution, assigned no. 2025-54, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

        PASSED AND APPROVED effective 19 August 2025.

ATTEST:                                         COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __                        By _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ __
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                       Michael T. Weichers, Mayor

                                                VOTING:

                                                Michael T. W eichers            Yea_ Nay _
                                                Matt Holton                     Yea _Nay _
                                                Suzanne Hyland                  Yea_Nay _
                                                Shawn E. Newell                 Yea _Nay _
                                                Ellen Birrell                   Yea_Nay_

        DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 19th day of August 2025.

        RECORDED this _ day of August 2025.
WHEN RECORDED RETURN TO:

CO'ITONWOOD HEIGHTS
Attn: Tiffany Janzen, City Recorder
2277 East Bengal Blvd.
Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121

                               Development Agreement
                                 (3526 East Fort Union Blvd.)
       TIDS DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT (this "Agreemenf') is entered into effective _
_ _ _ 2025 by and between LAND DEVELOPMENT LLC, a Utah limited liability
company whose address is 3267 East 3300 South, #304, Salt Lake City, UT 84109 ("Developer"),
and the city of COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, a Utah municipality whose address is 2277 East
Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121 ("City"). Developer and City are hereinafter
sometimes referred to individually as a "Party'' or collectively as the "Parties."



       A.       Developer owns approximately .95 acre of real property located at or near 3526
East Fort Union Blvd. within City's boundaries (the "Property"). The legal description of the
Property is set forth on Exhibit "A" annexed hereto.

        B.      The current land use designation of the Property is Residential Office ("RO") and
its current zoning designation is R-1-8 (Residential Single Family).

        C.     Developer desires to construct three "twin homes" (i.e., two-family dwelling units)
on the Property, for a total ofsix dwellings units (the "Project"). The Project, as proposed, requires,
inter alia, modifying (1) the land use designation of the Property from RO to Residential Medium
Density, and (2) the zoning designation of the property from R-1-8 to R-2-8 (Residential Multi-
Family).

        D.      In connection with its application ("Application") for City approval of such land
use and zoning designations Developer has repeatedly represented to City's Planning Commission
and its City Council (the "CounciI") that if such approval is granted the Project would (1)
perpetually use a shared driveway along the Southerly (rear) boundary of the Property to provide
access to the Project's dwellings, with no driveway or vehicular access from the Project directly
to Fort Union Blvd.; (2) perpetually maintain a minimum side yard setback for all primary
structures on the Property of at least 25 feet from the Property's Westerly property line; and (3)
adopt and perpetually comply with a comprehensive plan to assure that all common areas of the
Project are maintained in good~attractive condition. The foregoing assurances by Developer are,
collectively, "Developer's Assurances." The impact of Developer's Assurances 1-2 are shown on
the preliminary site plan (the "Site Plan") submitted by Developer to City in connection with its
A_pplication that is attached as Exhibit "B" to this Agreement.

       E.      On 7 May 2025, based, in part, on Developer's Assurances, City's Planning
Commission recommended that the Council approve the Application. On 3 June 2025 the Council
considered the Application, heard first-hand Developer's Assurances, and directed preparation of
this Agreement to memorialize Developer' s Assurances as a record encumbrance on the Property
in connection with any Council approval of the Application.

       F.       The intent of this Agreement is to facilitate development of the Project in
accordance with the Code and the site-specific land uses and development standards specified in
this Agreement in order to provide for a creative development with unique and unusual
characteristics for the benefit of all Parties and the single-family residential neighborhoods
abutting the Property.

        G.      City, acting pursuant to its authority under the Municipal Land Use, Development,
and Management Act, UTAH CODE ANN. §§ 10-9a-101, et seq. ("LUDMA"), has made certain
determinations with respect to the Property and the proposed Project, and, in the exercise of its
discretion, has elected to process and approve this Agreement after all necessary public hearings
and procedures have been conducted.



       NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein and for
other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby
acknowledged, the Parties hereby agree as follows:

       1.       Incorporation of Recitals; Entire Agreement. The above recitals and the exhibits
referenced in this Agreement are hereby incorporated by reference as part of this Agreement. This
Agreement integrates and constitutes all of the terms and conditions pertaining to the subject
matter hereof and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, promises, inducements, or
previous agreements between the Parties hereto with respect to such subject matter.

        2.     Conditions Precedent. This Agreement is contingent upon and shall only become
effective at such time as (a) the Parties mutually enter into this Agreement following Council
approval of City's entry into this Agreement, and (b) Council approves the Application. This
Agreement is not intended to and does not affect or in any way bind or supersede the independent
exercise of discretion by the Council in deciding whether to approve or deny the City's entry into
this Agreement or the Application under LUOMA, the Code, and other applicable law.

If the Parties mutually enter into this Agreement following Council approval of this Agreement
and Council subsequently approves the Application, but if City's approval(s) of this Agreement
and/or the Application subsequently are revoked by any means other than legally permissible
action by the Council, then City's prior approvals of this Agreement and the Application shall be
deemed void ab initio.

       3.      Project-Specific Development Standards.

               (a)     Applicable Standards; Compliance with Developer's Assurances. The uses,
development standards and other regulations applicable to the Property under the R-2-8 zoning
designation shall be as described in Code Chapter 19.31, provided that the Project perpetually shall
comply with and incorporate Developer's Assurances, including that the Project will (1)
perpetually use a shared driveway along the Southerly (rear) boundary of the Property to provide
access to the Project's dwellings, with no driveway or vehicular access from the Project directly
to Fort Union Blvd.; (2) perpetually maintain a minimum side yard setback for all primary
structures on the Properly of at least 25 feet from the Property's Westerly property line; and (3)
                                                  2
adopt and perpetually comply with a comprehensive plan to assure that all common areas of the
Project are maintained in good, attractive condition. Subject to the foregoing, Developer shall
develop the Project in accordance with the City-approved development plans for the Project (the
"Plan"). City reserves the right to require modifications of the Plan as reasonably necessary to
assure Code compliance.

                (b)     Minor Modifications. Developer irrevocably waives any right to seek,
through a conditional use or other administrative (non-legislative) process to materially modify
any attributes of the Project as shown on the Plan to the extent such modifications would diminish
or eliminate the effect of Developer's Assurances. If, alternatively, Developer desires to seek
minor modifications to the Plan which neither diminishes nor eliminates the effect of any of
Developer's Assurances, then Developer shall submit a detailed request to City's community
development director (the "Director"), who may administratively approve minor modifications to
the Plan under the foregoing standards. Any decision of the Director approving or denying a
request for a minor modification to the Plan is an administrative decision of City staff that may be
appealed to City's appeal authority as provided in the Code.

        4.      Approval Process for Development Applications. City shall process applications
for development of the Project in accordance with the Code. Nothing in this Agreement shall be
deemed to relieve Developer of the obligation to comply with all of the applicable requirements
for approval of preliminary and final subdivision plats, or preliminary and final site plans, as
applicable, for the proposed development of the Project consistent with the terms and conditions
of this Agreement and the applicable provisions of the Code.

        5.      Public Dedication and Infrastructure Requirements. Developer shall, without
compensation. as reasonably required by City in connection with approval and development of the
Project, timely (a) publicly dedicate any realty abutting Fort Union Blvd. as the same is ultimately
determined (as to size and location) by City in accordance with applicable City standards, and (b)
construct any public infrastructure included in the Plan. Developer irrevocably waives any right to
challenge such public dedication and infrastructure requirements as impermissible development
exactions by City pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. 10-9a-508 or other applicable law.

       6.      Payment of Fees.

                (a)     Development Application and Review Fees. Developer shall pay to City all
fees imposed by City (including, without limitation, application fees, impact fees and connection
fees) for review and approval of development of any and all phases of the Project in the amounts
set forth in City' s Consolidated Fee Schedule from time to time.

               (b)     Other Fees. City may charge other fees in existence from time to time
during development of the Project, including, without limitation, standard building permit review
and inspection fees for improvements to be constructed on the Property, and impact fees, that are
generally applicable to other developments within City.

               (c)     Reservation of Right to Challenge Impact Fees. Notwithstanding any
provision of this Agreement, Developer does not waive the right under any applicable law to
challenge the reasonableness or legality of the amount or imposition of any of City's impact fees.


                                                  3
       7.      Vested Rights.

               (a)    Vested Rights. If the Application is approved Developer shall have the
vested right to develop and construct the Project in accordance with and subject to compliance
with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, LUDMA and applicable provisions of the Code.
Where any conflict or ambiguity exists between the provisions of the Code and this Agreement
(including the exhibits to this Agreement), this Agreement shall govern. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, however, the rights vested as provided in this Agreement are not exempt from the
application of the Code and to subsequently enacted ordinances to the extent such exemption
would impair City's reserved legislative powers under Section 7(b), below.

                 (b)     Reseryed Legislative Powers. The Parties acknowledge that City is
restricted in its authority to limit its police power by contract and that the limitations, reservations
and exceptions set forth herein are intended to reserve to City those police powers that cannot be
so limited. Notwithstanding the retained power of City to enact such legislation under the police
powers, such legislation shall only be applied to modify any development standards that are
applicable to the Project under the terms of this Agreement based upon the policies, facts and
circumstances meeting the compelling, countervailing public interest exception to the vested rights
doctrine ofthe State of Utah. Any such proposed legislative changes shall be of general application
to all development activity in City. Unless City declares an emergency, Developer shall be entitled
to prior written notice and an opportunity to be heard with respect to any proposed change and its
applicability to the Project under the compelling, countervailing public interest exception to the
vested rights doctrine.

       8.       Third Party Service Providers. City will only be the service provider ofthe public
roads and storm drainage facilities to service the Project. Developer shall be responsible to
construct all private improvements on the Project, and to obtain the approval and incur the costs
of constructing any off-site and on-site infrastructure and improvements from third party service
providers (including, but not limited to, Rocky Mountain Power, Questar Gas and the Cottonwood
Improvement District) that are necessary to service any portion of the Property. City shall
reasonably cooperate, as necessary, in seeking approval and permits from such third-party service
providers.

        9.      Term of Agreement. The term ofthis Agreement (the "Term") shall be for a period
of 20 years following the effective date specified above, unless it is terminated earlier or its Term
is modified by written amendment to this Agreement; provided that this Agreement shall continue
to be effective perpetually as to applications that have been submitted and development that has
occurred within the Project notwithstanding any subsequent termination of this Agreement.

        10.    Assignment. Subject to Section 12 below, Developer may not assign its rights or
delegate its duties under this Agreement to any third party without City' s prior written consent,
which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed; provided, however,
that no such assignment shall relieve Developer from the obligation to assure the full and timely
payment and performance of all of its duties under this Agreement.

        11.     Default.

              (a)    Notice. If a Party fails to timely perform its obligations hereunder or to
comply with the terms hereof, the Party believing that a default has occurred shall provide written
                                                   4
notice (a "Notice ofDefault") to the defaulting Party as provided herein.

                (b)    Contents ofthe Notice ofDefault. The Notice of Default shall:

                       (i)     Claim of Default. Specify the claimed event of default;

                      (ii)    Identification of Provisions. Identify with particularity the
provisions of any applicable law, rule, regulation or provision of this Agreement that is claimed to
be in default;

                       (iii)   Specify Materiality. Identify why the default is claimed to be
material; and

                     (iv)    Optional Proposed Cure. In connection with an alleged default by
Developer, a Notice of Default from City may also propose a method and tiine for Developer to
cure the default.

               (c)    Meet and Confer. Upon the issuance of a Notice of Default, the Parties shall
meet within ten business days and confer in an attempt to resolve the issues that are the subject
matter of the Notice of Default.

               (d)      Remedies. If, after meeting and conferring, the Parties are not able to
resolve the default, then the Parties shall have the following remedies:

                      (i)    Legal Remedies. The rights and remedies available at law and in
equity including, without limitation, injunctive relief, specific performance and termination, but
not including compensatory damages, punitive damages or attorney's fees.

                     (ii)   Enforcement of Security. City shall have the right to draw on any
security posted or provided in connection with the Project and relating to remedying of the
particular default.

                        (iii)   Withholding Further Development Approvals. City shall have the
right to withhold all further reviews, approvals, licenses, building permits and/or other permits for
development of the Property.

                (e)    Public Meeting. Before any remedy in Section 11(d) may be imposed by
City, the party allegedly in default shall be afforded the right to attend a public meeting before the
Council and address the Council regarding the claimed default.

                (t)    Emergency Defaults. Anything in this Agreement notwithstanding, if the
Planning Commission or Council, as applicable, finds on the record that a default materially
impairs a compelling, countervailing interest of City and that any delays in imposing such a default
would also impair a compelling, countervailing interest of City, then City may impose the remedies
of Section 1 l(d) without meeting the requirements of Section ll(e). City shall give written notice
to the defaulting party of any public meeting at which an emergency default is to be considered
and the defaulting party may address the Council at that meeting regarding the claimed emergency
default.

                                                  5
               (g)     Extended Cure Period. Any applicable cure period may be extended as
needed by agreement of the Parties for good cause shown, so long as the defaulting party is
pursuing a cure with reasonable diligence.

               (h)     Cumulative Rights. The rights and remedies set forth herein shall be
cumulative.

               (i)     Waiver ofJury Trial. Each of the Parties hereby irrevocably waives, to
the fullest extent possible under applicable law, the right to request or obtain a trial by jury
in connection with any lawsuit between the Parties arising from 01· related to this Agreement.

        12.     Covenants Run with Land; Recording. This Agreement shall (a) create an
equitable servitude on the Property in favor of City; (b) constitute a covenant running with the
land; (c) bind every person having any fee, leasehold or other interest in any portion ofthe Property
at any time or from time to time; and (d) inure to the benefit of and be binding upon Developer,
City and their respective successors and assigns. City may record this Agreement in the office of
the Salt Lake County .Recorder so long as City records a termination of this Agreement
contemporaneously with any termination of this Agreement due to failure of a condition precedent
under Section 2, above.
      13.      General Provisions. The following provisions are also integral parts of this
Agreement:

                (a)     Binding Agreement. This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure
to the benefit of the successors and assigns of the respective parties hereto.
              (b)     Captions. The headings used in this Agreement are inserted for reference
purposes only and shall not be deemed to define, limit, extend, describe, or affect in any way the
meaning, scope or interpretation of any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement or the intent
hereof.
               (c)    Counterparts. This Agreement may be signed in any number of
counterparts with the same effect as if the signatures upon any counterpart were upon the same
instrument. All signed counterparts shall be deemed to be one original.
              (d)     Severability. The provisions of this Agreement are severable, and should
any provision hereof be void, voidable, unenforceable or invalid, such void, voidable,
unenforceable or invalid provision shall not affect the other provisions of this Agreement.

              ( e)    Waiver ofBreach. Any waiver by either party of any breach of any kind or
character whatsoever by the other, whether such be direct or implied, shall not be construed as a
continuing waiver of or consent to any subsequent breach of this Agreement.

                (f)    Cumulative Remedies. The rights and remedies of the parties hereto shall be
construed cumulatively, and none of such rights and remedies shall be exclusive of, or in lieu or
limitation of, any other right, remedy or priority allowed by law.

               (g)     Amendment. This Agreement may not be modified except by an instrument
in writing signed by the parties hereto.
                                                  6
               (h)      Time Q[Essence. Time is the essence of this Agreement.

               (i)    Interpretation. This Agreement shall be interpreted, construed and enforced
according to the substantive laws of the state of Utah.
                (j)     Notice. Any notice or other communication required or permitted to be
given hereunder shall be deemed to have been received (a) upon personal delivery or actual receipt
thereof or (b) within three (3) days after such notice is deposited in the United States mail, postage
prepaid and certified and addressed to the parties at their respective addresses set forth above. Any
Party may change its address or notice by giving written notice to the other Parties in accordance
with the provisions of this Subsection.
                (k)    Force Maieure. Neither party shall be responsible for delays or failure in
performance resulting from acts beyond the control of such party, including without limitation,
acts of God, strikes, lockouts, riots, acts of war, epidemics, fire, communication line failures,
power surges or failures, earthquakes, unseasonably severe weather conditions, or any other
disasters or unusual and reasonably unforeseeable events beyond the reasonable control of the
party required to perform, so long as the party charged with performance in that situation diligently
pursues such performance. Force majeure events exclude, however, those arising from the
financial condition of Developer or its successors.
                (1)     Non.Liability of City Officials or Employees. No officer, representative,
agent, or employee of City shall be personally liable to Developer, or any owner, officer,
representative, agent, employee, successor-in-interest or assignee of Developer, in the event of any
default or breach by City or for any amoW1t which may become due to Developer or such related
parties of Developer for any obligation arising pursuant to this Agreement.
                (m) No Third-Party Rights. The obligations of the Parties set forth in this
Agreement shall not create any rights in or obligations to any persons or parties other than to City,
Developer and their permitted successors and assigns. City and Developer, and their permitted
successors and assigns, alone shall be entitled to enforce or waive any provisions ofthis Agreement
to the extent that such provisions are for their benefit.
                (n)     Survival. All agreements, covenants, representations, and warranties
contained herein shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and shall continue in
full force and effect throughout the term of this Agreement.
             (o)    Public Information. The Parties acknowledge that this Agreement and all
documents and instruments related to this Agreement will be public records as provided in the
Utah Government Records Access and Management Act, UTAH CODE ANN. § 630-2-101, et seq.
        DATED effective the date first-above written.




                                                   7
                                               CITY:

ATTEST:                                        COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, a Utah municipality


                                               By:
By:-- - - - - - - - --
  Tiffany Janzen, Recorder
                                           -         -Mich
                                                       - a--   - - -- - - - - -- - -
                                                           eIT. Weichcrs, Mayor



STATE OF UTAH       )
                    : ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

       On _ ___ 2025, personally appeared before me Michael T. Weichers and Tiffany
Janzen, who duly acknowledged to me that they executed the foregoing document as the mayor
and the recorder, respectively, of COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, a Utah municipality.



                                               Notary Public


                                               DEVELOPER:

                                               LAND DEVELOPMENT LLC,
                                               a Utah limited liability company




                                                  Adam Nash, Manager


STATE OF UTAH       )
                    : ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

      On )     ~rukr7    2025, personally appeared before me Adam Nash, who duly
acknowledged to me that he executed the foregoing document as the manager of LAND
DEVELOPMENT LLC, an Utah limited liability company.


                  B~IANNA HADEN                ~ 'HJJCtA1/VLP\_
                                                     -
            Noury Public - State of Utah
                Comm. No. 7◄ 1700               otaryPublic
             My Commission Expires on
                  F@b 1 ◄, 2029




                                                  8
                                 Exhibit "A" to
                             Development Agreement

LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPERTY:
(Insert legal description)




                                       9
A parcel of land, being all of a parcel identified by the Salt Lake County Recorder as

Parcel No. 22-25-152-020 as contained in that Warranty Deed recorded July 13,

2022 as Entry No. 13984286 in Book 11356 at Page 760 in the office of the Salt

Lake County Recorder, located in the Northeast Quarter of Section 26 and the

Northwest Quarter of Section 25, Township 2 South, Range 1 East, Salt Lake Base &

Meridian more particularly described as follows:

Beginning at a point on the southerly right-of-way line of 7000 South Street

(Fort Union Boulevard), said point located N00°15'35"W along the Section line

1,425.46feetfrom the West 1/4 Corner of Section 25, T2S, R1E, SLB&M (Basis of

Bearing: S00°03'40"E along the Section line between West 1/4 Corner and the

Southwest Corner of said Section 25); running thence along said southerly

right-of-way line S61°58'35"E 173.84 feet to the westerly line of ADVENTURE

CONDOMINIUMS II, a Utah condominium project, according to the Condominium

Plat recorded July 9, 1980 as Entry No. 3452035 in Book 80-7 at Page 105 in the

office of the Salt Lake County Recorder; thence along said westerly line

S00°38'33"W 160. 09 feet to a northerly line of PINE COVE EAST Subdivision,

according to the official plat thereof recorded May 13, 1976 as Entry No. 2813927 in

Book 76-5 at Page 104 in the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder; thence along

said plat the following two (2) courses: (1) N64°00'00"W 286.02 feet; thence (2)

N28°00'00"E 154.03 feet to said southerly right-of-way line of 7000 South Street

(Fort Union Boulevard); thence along said southerly right-of-way line S59°20'04"E

38.48 feet to the point of beginning.
    Exhibit "B" to
Development Agreement

(Attach Copy of Preliminary Site Plan)
                                                                                                               ...
                   ~                                                                                  ..
                                                                                                   ~.--   ~~
                                                                                                               .'\


                   ~.,
                    i,K:\ l'l!I•' :-\..\LI·                                                                    Alternate Drivew a_y Location
~ • 1"11111                                                                                    FOR T _U f'4 /0N BLVD
                           , . . .~   ;~ f




PROPERTY OVERVIEW
  TOIAL ilalE.1.GE                                 tOJJS, l\( RES.
  CURF.illT , a MING                               P,2-,t


CONCEPr DESIGN
 R-2-B LOI S                                       H015
 t\'Jl/1 HO+I.( l 11ll15                           6 L•ril1S                                                       .-1 .

                                                                                ...
PROPOSED ZONING
  zom
 L0 15W .
 lOTWIDTH
                                             R·H I
                                             Q.00050 t1

                                             "
                                                                                V)
                                                                                <
                                                                                w
                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                     .·. I b
 ff':ON I 5( I ISACJ.
 SH)£ SEHW :K                                "
                                             5' 1,IU HMUM, 1!>' 1O 1,\l
                                                                                .,.
                                                                                r,.
                                                                                M
                                                                                                                             -.----.lr - -r-'
 COF.I ltR SIDE 5£TBACI:                     20·
 RC,.R. S£TtMCK                              20'                                                                                    r.
                                                                                                                                    It




                                                                                      .
                                                                                      \   t                                                               ..,

                                                                          .
                                                                          ; _                 ..

  HIGH EAST SUBDI VISION conce.E.!._p_lan V
 COTTO NWOOD HEIGHTS CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY
 5/ 23/2025
                                                                                                                                                i:tltus
                         Cottonwood Heights
                         City b<tu\'m 1hr r1111Jo11s




                       Attachment 4
                   Resolution - 2025-62
This resolution will authorize disposal of unclaimed property
       and/or property no longer needed as evidence.
                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                   RESOLUTION NO. 2025-62

          A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
               AND/OR PROPERTY No LONGER NEEDED As EVIDENCE

       WHEREAS, UTAH CODE ANN. §§77-1 ld-101 et seq. (the "Lost or Mislaid Property
Chapter") establish the procedures for disposal of lost or mislaid property ("Lost Property") that
comes into the possession of a law enforcement agency; and

        WHEREAS, UTAH CODE ANN. Chapters 77-1 la through 77-1 lc (the "Seized Items and
Former Evidence Chapters") (the Lost or Mislaid Property Chapter and the Seized Items and
Former Evidence Chapters are collectively referred to herein as the "Disposal Statutes") establish
the procedures for disposal by a law enforcement agency of seized prope11y and prope1ty no longer
needed as evidence in connection with any public offense (collectively, "Evidence"); and

        WHEREAS, the Cottonwood Heights Police Department ("CHPD") has identified vaiious
items of Lost Prope1ty and/or Evidence (collectively, the "Property") in its possession that are
subject to disposition as provided in the Disposal Statutes and has requested the city council (the
"CounciI") of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City") to acknowledge CHPD's possession of
the Property; to authorize CHPD to dispose of the Property; and to permit the Prope1ty or its
proceeds to be applied by CHPD to a public interest use, all as provided in the Disposal Statutes;
and

        WHEREAS, in connection with such request, CHPD has complied with the noticing and
other requirements for such disposition that are specified in the Disposal Statutes; and

        WHEREAS, the Council met on 19 August 2025 to consider, among other things,
acknowledging CHPD's possession of the items of Property desc1ibed on the attached exhibit(s)
(the "List"); authorizing CHPD to dispose of such items of Property; and permitting the Property
or its proceeds to be applied by CHPD to a public interest use, all as provided in the Disposal
Statutes; and

        WHEREAS, after reviewing the List, the Council acknowledges CHPD's possession of
the items of Property listed thereon and, after careful consideration, has determined that it is in the
best interests of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to authorize CHPD's
disposal of such Prope1ty and to pe1mit CHPD to apply the Property or the proceeds thereof to a
public interest use, all pursuant to the requirements of the Disposal Statutes and such additional
noticing and other procedures as CHPD deems appropriate, in its discretion, to assure fairness and
transparency;

        NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Cottonwood Heights city council that
the Council acknowledges CHPD's possession of the items of Prope1iy shown on the List;
authorizes CHPD's disposal of such Property; and permits CHPD to apply such Property or the
proceeds thereof to a public interest use, all pursuant to the requirements of the Disposal Statutes
and such additional noticing and other procedures as CHPD deems appropriate, in its discretion,
to assure fairness and transparency.
     This Resolution, assigned no. 2025-62, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

     PASSED AND APPROVED effecti ve 19 August 2025.


ATTEST:                                   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL



By: - - - - - - - - - --                 B y : - - - - - -- - - - - - -- - -
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder               Michael T. Weichers, Mayor


                                          VOTING:

                                         Michael T. Weichers           Yea_Nay _
                                         Matt Holton                   Yea_Nay_
                                         Suzanne Hyland                Yea_Nay _
                                         Shawn E. Newell               Yea_Nay _
                                         Ellen BiITell                 Yea_Nay_

     DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 19th day of August 2025.

     RECORDED this_ day of A ugust 2025.




                                             2
                                          PROPERTY & EVIDENCE ROOM - MARCH 2025 AUCTION




Number               Description                 Property & Evidence   Original Department   Proposed Method of   As Is Recommended
                                                      Number                                     Disposition          Bid Value
  1      Misc.clothes, unused                        CH8265-1           Police Property &          Auction          TBT By Auction
         makeup/hygiene products,                                            Evidence                                   House
         wallet, flashlight, electronics, etc.
  2      Brown/Blue Bag                              CH8474-1           Police Property &         Auction           TBT By Auction
                                                                             Evidence                                   House
  3      Backpack, misc. clothes, lock,              CH8728-7           Police Property &         Auction           TBT By Auction
         headphones, sunglasses, etc.                                        Evidence                                   House
  4      Leatherman pocket knife                     CH8982-1           Police Property &         Auction           TBT By Auction
                                                                             Evidence                                   House
  5      4 Inch folding knife black handle           CH9017-1           Police Property &         Auction           TBT By Auction
                                                                             Evidence                                   House
  6      Cell phone charger                          CH7711-1           Police Property &         Auction           TBT By Auction
                                                                             Evidence                                   House
  7      Small empty suitcase                        CH10019-1          Police Property &         Auction           TBT By Auction
                                                                             Evidence                                   House
  8      Watch                                       CH10023-1          Police Property &         Auction           TBT By Auction
                                                                             Evidence                                   House
  9      Pink Old Navy hoodie                       CH10023-18          Police Property &         Auction           TBT By Auction
                                                                             Evidence                                   House
 10      Charms from bracelet or necklace           CH10023-15          Police Property &         Auct ion          TBT By Auction
                                                                             Evidence                                   House
 11      Gold bracelet with heart pendant           CH10023-14          Police Property &         Auction           TBT By Auction
                                                                             Evidence                                   House
 12      Gold neckpl ace with single pearl          CH10023-11          Police Property &         Auct ion          TBT By Auction
                                                                             Evidence                                   House


                                                                                                                            Page 1 of8
                                PROPERTY & EVIDENCE ROOM - MARCH 2025 AUCTION




13   Glasses                            CH10023-10       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence                        House
14   Sunglasses                          CH10023-8       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence                        House
15   Sunglasses                          CH10023-7       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence                        House
16   Sunglasses                          CH10023-6       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence                        House
17   Small ladies watch                  CH10023-S       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence                        House
18   Pink wallet                         CH10023-4       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence                        House
19   Digital camera                     CH10023-16       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence                        House
20   Wallet                              CH10106-1       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence                        House
21   Brown wallet                        CH10115-3       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence                        House
22   Black wallet                        CH10139-1       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence                        House
23   Wallet                              CH10156-1       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence                        House
24   Large metal white bottle            CH10175-8       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence                        House
25   Bag of misc tools                   CH10175-7       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence                        House
26   RC car                              CH10195-1       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence                        House




                                                                                                 Page 2 of8
                                       PROPERTY & EVIDENCE ROOM - MARCH 2025 AUCTION


                                                            ~

27   White backpack, electronics,               CH10234-1       Police Property &      Auction    TBT By Auction
     earbuds, wallet, drorne, pins,                                  Evidence                         House
     watch, coins
28   Black zippered bag, Pokemon                CH10207-1       Police Property &      Auction    TBT By Auction
     cards                                                           Evidence                         House
29   Multicolored zipper bag,                   CH10207-2       Police Property &      Auction    TBT By Auction
     sunglasses, trading cards, bags,                                Evidence                         House
     misc. electronics
30   Hilti UH240-A Cordless Drill               CH10235-1       Police Property &      Auction    TBT By Auction
                                                                     Evidence                         House
31   Large beach bag, misc. clothing,           CH10250-5       Police Property &      Auction    TBT By Auction
     har dryer, false lashes/nails                                   Evidence                         House
32   White purse, charger cords, hair           CH10250-4       Police Property &      Auction    TBT By Auction
     dye, gloves, misc.                                              Evidence                         House
33   Dewalt DW130 ½" reversing drill            CH10398-1       Police Property &      Auct ion   TBT By Auction
                                                                     Evidence                         House
34   Misc. tools/parts in bucket                CH10398-2       Police Property &      Auction    TBT By Auction
                                                                     Evidence                         House
35   Pocket knife                               CH10420-1       Police Property &      Auct ion   TBT By Auction
                                                                     Evidence                         House
36   Black purse, necklace                      CH9183-4        Police Property &      Auct ion   TBT By Auction
                                                                     Evidence                         House
37   Silver leatherman                          CH9237-11       Police Property &      Auction    TBT By Auction
                                                                     Evidence                         House
38   Earbuds                                    CH9279-1        Police Property &      Auct ion   TBT By Auction
                                                                     Evidence                         House
39   Black backpack, wallet, bags,              CH9308-1        Police Property &      Auct ion   TBT By Auction
     misc. tools, misc. electronics,                                 Evidence                         House
     gloves



                                                                                                         Page 3 of 8
                                   PROPERTY & EVIDENCE ROOM - MARCH 2025 AUCTION




40   Brown purse, earrings, bag             CH9314-5        Police Property &      Auct ion   TBT By Auction
                                                             Evidence Room                        House
41   Drawstring bag, bag, misc.             CH9368- 2       Police Property &      Auct ion   TBT By Auction
     electronics, speaker, sunglasses,                       Evidence Room                        House
     multi-tool
42   Knife                                  CH9370-1        Police Property &      Auction    TBT By Auction
                                                                 Evidence                         House
43   Turquoise ring                         CH9387-1        Police Property &      Auct ion   TBT By Auction
                                                                 Evidence                         House
44   Clothing items, bags, misc. care       CH9400-3        Police Property &      Auct ion   TBT By Auction
     items                                                       Evidence                         House
45   Backpack, charging cables,             CH9434-1        Police Property &      Auct ion   TBT By Auction
     clothes, lock, waterbottle                                  Evidence                         House
46   Apple airpods pro                      CH9498-1        Police Property &      Auct ion   TBT By Auction
                                                                 Evidence                         House
47   Dagne Dover tan colored diaper         CH9507-1        Police Property &      Auct ion   TBT By Auction
     bag, changing pad, bags, burp                               Evidence                         House
     cloths
48   Kitchen knife                          CH9517-1        Police Property &      Auct ion   TBT By Auction
                                                                 Evidence                         House
49   Multi tool                             CH9520-1        Police Property &      Auct ion   TBT By Auction
                                                                 Evidence                         House
50   Black backpack, Nike sneakers,         CH9519-1        Police Property &      Auct ion   TBT By Auction
     clothes                                                     Evidence                         House
51   Gray purse, wallet, tool               CH9556-4        Police Property &      Auction    TBT By Auction
                                                                 Evidence                         House
52   Brown diaper bag, formul a             CH9573-1        Police Property &      Auction    TBT By Auction
     dispenser, kid s clothes                                    Evidence                         House
53   Ear buds, chargers, misc.              CH9640-1        Police Property &      Auction    TBT By Auction
     electronics                                                 Evidence                         House

                                                                                                      Page 4 of 8
        , __ -,.-f•· -.. ~ •; -·..•• , • .'-;,'.   --~---•. • • , ::.. -_ • 1·.-. \ .•-._-,._,_.~:,~ :s· .·. .· •_-::.\~ <:'.• . _t_·.   '·1 ~ .;._ •·. '. ~'.:..::,~ :1.-·,;.,: ~•.:;;~<.~","!..• :·_w ,·.,
        0
             , • • •· •.·      :.'~:-~./•·:,:;·/:,;/.:,i••·(PROPERTY&' EVIDENCE:ROOM
            •-. -,.- .• , •• • ··-~-~~._,--~--·- - .. .....
                                                                                                   t-;; MARCH 2025.AUCTION
                                                                                                                1 .• :·.~·-.-"·_· -
                                                      _ •,.•·:: -• --•,.:C.. -' . .,.,:~-~·:,-----.--:-:.;,;-: --.-:
                                                                              ----•·-•-•.-·-~-.-•-'~!-~ _.r.,.-''l" ·. _...,.. • • -- - :,. •-,..~_.,,·._t_
                                                                                                                                                          ~•,_




54   Black backpack, gloves, clothes,                                                                                                    CH9628-1                                                        Police Property &   Auction    TBT By Auction
     misc. electronics, solar charger                                                                                                                                                                     Evidence Room                     House
55   Black folding pocketknife                                                                                                           CH9639-1                                                        Police Property &   Auction    TBT By Auction
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Evidence Room                     House
56   Black backpack, bags, batteries,                                                                                                    CH9696-1                                                        Police Property &   Auction    TBT By Auction
     misc.                                                                                                                                                                                                Evidence Room                     House
57   Black backpack, speaker, screw                                                                                                      CH9747-1                                                        Police Property &   Auction    TBT By Auction
     driver                                                                                                                                                                                               Evidence Room                     House
58   Headphones, assorted electronics                                                                                                    CH9803-3                                                        Police Property &   Auction    TBT By Auction
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Evidence Room                     House
59   Assorted tools, knives,                                                                                                             CH9803-2                                                        Police Property &   Auction    TBT By Auction
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Evidence Room                     House
60   Clothes, microfiber cloths                                                                                                          CH9803-7                                                        Police Property &   Auction    TBT By Auction
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Evidence Room                     House
61   Dew alt tool set                                                                                                                    CH9803-6                                                        Police Property &   Auction    TBT By Auction
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Evidence Room                     House
62   Assorted flashlights                                                                                                                CH9803-1                                                        Police Property &   Auct ion   TBT By Auction
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Evidence Room                     House
63   2 small bags                                                                                                                        CH9803-4                                                        Police Property &   Auction    TBT By Auction
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Evidence Room                     House
64   Assorted glasses                                                                                                                    CH9803-5                                                        Police Property &   Auct ion   TBT By Auction
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Evidence Room                     House
65   3 knives                                                                                                                            CH9825-1                                                        Police Property &   Auct ion   TBT By Auction
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Evidence Room                     House
66   Silver pocket knife                                                                                                                 CH9829-1                                                        Police Property &   Auct ion   TBT By Auction
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Evidence Room                     House
67   Wool cap                                                                                                                            CH9916-1                                                        Police Property &   Auct ion   TBT By Auction
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Evidence Room                     House
68   Marijuana leaf backpack, hat,                                                                                                       CH9888-1                                                        Police Property &   Auct ion   TBT By Auction
     radio, jewelry                                                                                                                                                                                       Evidence Room                     House

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Page 5 of8
                                                          -~
                                     PROPERTY & EVIDENCE ROOM - MARCH 2025 AUCTION
                                        -     ---         -      .. . ,      ..




69   Michael Jordan Bulls Jersey              CH9893-1        Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                               Evidence Room                       House
70   Bolt Cutter                              CH9893-14       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                               Evidence Room                       House
71   Gray backpack, notebooks, locks,         CH9898-1        Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
     flashlights, misc. electronics                            Evidence Room                       House
72   Black purse, tools, bags, perfume        CH9908-1        Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                               Evidence Room                       House
73   Backpack, bags, misc. electronics        CH9915-2        Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                               Evidence Room                       House
74   Apple air pods                           CH9947-1        Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                               Evidence Room                       House
75   Blue/black drawstring backpack,          CH9958-1        Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
     clothes, glasses, tools, care items,                      Evidence Room                       House
     misc. electronics
76   1 set of eyeglasses                      CH9988-8        Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                               Evidence Room                       House
77   .223 magazine                             CH840-5        Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                               Evidence Room                       House
78   Brown leather holster                    CH10260-2       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                               Evidence Room                       House
79   Hard gun case                            CH10577-8       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                               Evidence Room                       House
80   Gun cases, hard and soft                 CH10577-9       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                               Evidence Room                       House
81   2 Ruger magazines                       CH10577-10       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                               Evidence Room                       House
82   Unknown gun part                        CH10577-11       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                               Evidence Room                       House



                                                                                                       Page 6 of 8
                                    PROPERTY & EVIDENCE ROOM - MARCH 2025 AUCTION




                                                         -
83   Master lock with keys                  CH10577-12       Police Property &      Auction    TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence Room                        House
84   Handgun case                            CH10812-2       Police Property &      Auction    TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence Room                        House
85   Black handgun case                      190900203       Police Property &      Auction    TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence Room                        House
86   Magazines                               160900072       Police Property &      Auction    TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence Room                        House
87   Magazine                                150400223       Police Property &      Auction    TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence Room                        House
88   Arrow                                   180800038       Police Property &      Auction    TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence Room                        House
89   Black/ Green BMX Bike                   CH8265-4        Police Property &      Auction    TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence Room                        House
90   Dark Blue GT Aggressor Mountain         CH8091-1        Police Property &      Auction    TBT By Auction
     Bike                                                     Evidence Room                        House
91   Mens 29" Kent Flexor Model Bike         CH10084-1       Police Property &      Auction    TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence Room                        House
92   Black/Blue Trek with extensive          CH9840-1        Police Property &      Auct ion   TBT By Auction
     damage                                                   Evidence Room                        House
93   Bike - missing front wheel, brake       CH9885-1        Police Property &      Auction    TBT By Auction
     assembly                                                 Evidence Room                        House
94   Timber Ridge camo backpack,             CH6996-3        Police Property &      Auction    TBT By Auction
     walkie ta lkies, misc. camping                           Evidence Room                        House
     materials, clothing
95   Blue/yellow bolt cutters                CH6993-4        Police Property &      Auct ion   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence Room                        House
96   Gps, Crkt knife, leatherman,            CH6996-6        Police Property &      Auction    TBT By Auction
     magazine                                                 Evidence Room                        House



                                                                                                       Page 7 of8
                                     PROPERTY & EVIDENCE ROOM - MARCH 2025 AUCTION




97   Pocket knife folding blade 3"            CH8618-1        Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                               Evidence Room                       House
98   Black sheath with two knives             CH10040-2       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                               Evidence Room                       House




                                                                                                      Page 8 of 8
N
1-1'   00
1-1'




1-1'
N
1-1>
O'I




1-1>
00
N   N
w   0




    N
    ~
    N
    °'




w
0
w
u,
     w
     N




w    w
en   w
    CJl \ SC.\ovi
                                       '~
    ,LQ ~•.i
                   "                     t ~
~
               • lrO'lY"'O\_,&c                 \    I
                                                         w
    *''                                                  .....
                                  00f'1':!i ~ ~ . ...,
0                                           JI   JO-i

    , 'tStl•                 I DIIIIRII
                                  l l •tcHH)




                                                         w
                                                         00




~                                                         w
N                                                        \D
~
C1'I




       :t




~      ~
00     u,
u,   u,
w    0




     u,
     1-l-
u,
00




u,
U)




     u,
     -.J
°'w
CTI
00
......   ......
en       w




......
......




......    ......
00        V1
00
0




00
1-l
gg    00
      V'I




00    00
\.0
      °'




\.0   00
0     ......
91   92   93




94   95   96
\D
.....




\D
00
FIREARM DISPOSAL 2025
       TO BE BID ON BY FFLS
CH2022-15968

CH7249-1

SN:063170

MAKE: RUSSIAN

MODEL: MOSIN
NAGANT

CALIBER: 762
            ---
             ~     _;;;r~
            ~~-~




                                                  CH2022-15968

                                                  CH7249-2

~- ~~
                                                  SN: MR28301F
  ---""ti._ ~ •~


                      fs    -   i                 MAKE: MARLIN
                                                  FIREARMS CO .

                                    ,_ /> ,.:,J   MODEL:

                                                  CALIBER: 45-70
                                       CH2022-15968

                                       CH7249-3

                                       SN: 20-5470

                                       MAKE: FRANCO LIN
                                       INTL. ARMS CO.

                                       MODEL: CITADEL
                                       WARTHOG

Case N o-~
             EVIDENCE
                    Handle With Care   CALIBER: 12
                                       CH2022-15968

              Case No. ,,. /~ '"'"',
1}0\\~\'l'J                            CH7249-4

                                       SN: 357-34843

                                       MAKE: RUGER

                                       MODEL: 10/22

                                       CALIBER: 22
CH2022-15968

CH7249-5

SN: E100314

MAKE: UBERTI,
ALDO

MODEL: PISTOLERO

CALIBER: 357
CH2022-15968

CH7249-6

SN: 52276NZ7S7

MAKE: BROWNING

MODEL:A-BOLT

CALIBER: 30-06
\l
\1   CH2022-15968

     CH7249-7

     SN: GEM575

     MAKE:GLOCK GMBH

     MODEL: 19

     CALIBER: 9
CH2022-15968

CH7249-8

SN: H09885845

MAKE: IZH MASH
(IMEZ)

MODEL:

CALIBER: 762
CH2022-15968

CH7249-9

SN: C853560-16

MAKE: BOITO/ER
AMANTINO/IGA

MODEL: UPLANDER

CALIBER: 12
CH2023-16503

CH8872-1

SN: ST052955

MAKE: SPRINGFIELD

MODEL: SAINT

CALIBER: MULTI
               CH2024-2975
f"   ~ ... ~
               CH9292-1

               SN: Z289

               MAKE: ODIN

               MODEL:

               CALIBER: 12
CH2024-15440

CH10577-1

SN: M3394

MAKE: YUGOSLAVIA

MODEL: M24/47

CALIBER: 8MM
CH2024-15440

CH 10577-2

SN: SML-3786

MAKE: LAUER

MODEL: LCWlS

CALIBER: 223
CH2024-15440

CH 10577-3

SN: SM19291

MAKE: FEG

MODEL: SA85M

CALIBER: 762
                                                             CH2024-15440
-==   fiJ!~r,dlt1      o::::;;;;__ _ _ _ _ _....::_ _ __j,
                   - --C::::::::::
              = - Wii



                                                             CH 10577-4

                                                             SN: NONE

                                                             MAKE: SPRINGFIELD

                                                             MODEL: 187N

                                                             CALIBER: 22
                                                       CH2024-15440

                                                       CH 10577-7

                                                       SN: NONE
                            .           - . ..
                                                       MAKE:

                                                       MODEL:
                  ..,   -    -- ~   ~    ~ ~   ...J!
c:::n::::·:&4- !!I!         ,-
                                                       CALIBER:

                                                       UPPER ONLY
                        19X001076

                        190200104

                        SN: A46121

                        MAKE:TIKKA

                        MODEL:T3

                        CALIBER: 30-06




TIKKA T3   /\46 '2' ~
17X005983

171000153

SN: 201619

MAKE: REMINGTON

MODEL:

CALIBER: 22
CH2024-17367

CH10812-1

SN: 380-0786 7

MAKE: RUGER

MODEL : SR45

CALIBER: 45
14X004461

140800141

SN: HAB1202

MAKE: S&W

MODEL: M&P

CALIBER: 45
CH2022-5042

CH6009-1

SN: AEAK137

MAKE:GLOCK

MODEL: 17

CALIBER: 9
              .,..,
          '      I

     r-

     r.
;.                                              CH2021-8055
rn
                                                CH4152-1

                      I\

                      r'
                           r.
                           ,-

                           .---.
                                   :'
                                   ('

                                   I-·
                                         •
                                         ( ..
                                                SN: NA

                                                MAKE: BRO DAX

                                                MODEL: PELLET GUN

                                                CALIBER: 0.177

                                                PELLET GUN
                                   CH2022-3643

                                   CH5834-1

                                   SN: 376988

                                   MAKE:CHARTER ARMS

                               r   MODEL: 38 SPECIAL

    ~      n                       CALIBER:0 . 38
 ,...,
 L     I   (';

 t'.       n       a
r
I
           (,\     ~     n
_c:.       r-.   . ( \   ,-,
CH2021-5193

CH3768-1

SN: CP043076

MAKE:COBRA

MODEL: CA-32

CALIBER: 32
           18X001078

           180200171

           SN: 24B102487

           MAKE: SIG SAUER

           MODEL: SP2022
      -·
           CALIBER: 40
I'\
                   19X006032

                   191000114

                   SN: NCT39563

                   MAKE: TAURUS

                   MODEL: PT145 PRO

                   CALIBER: 45




               ~
n
I    •
           \

    ..)_   n
              r .                      i'-~I
                                                                         ,.   /.i?
                                                                                                      ,'"'\

                                                                                                       r,
                                                                                                       ' '

                                       .'"")
                                                                                                        Ii    19X006032
 -,    { -i   f      -~                 :\
' '
I' )   .r·:
                  ......
                       I
                                        ,-'\
                                        '      '
                                                                                                              191000127
       ,·'\   :·~                       :1                    ;·1
/J     ' '                                                                                                    SN: F74632
              :--1                          ;--'\             :I

                                                                                                              MAKE: HERITAGE

                                                                                                              MODEL: ROUGH
                                                                                                              RIDER
                                                                                                .-,
                                                                                                  '
                                                                                                n             CALIBER:
                                                                    •'
                                                                                                ,
                                                                     I          I       '



                                                    ..
                                                    I
                                                         ~          i\          n
                           I   '"'I                 ,·,             n               :~~          :1
                               ,..',                    ,-,                         I
                                                                                        ""\
                                                                                            I     \
                                                    '     I
19X005660

190900204

SN: 19BC12503

MAKE: CA NIK

MODEL: TP9SFX

CALIBER: 9
17X006803

171100269

SN: T053146

MAKE: MOSSBERG

MODEL: 5000

CALIBER: 20ga
19X001076

190200105

SN: MV86399A

MAKE: MAVERICK

MODEL: 88

CALIBER: 12 GA
CH2021-3714

CH3576-1

SN: L225174

MAKE: SAVAGE ARMS

MODEL: STEVENS 954

CALIBER: 22L
CH2023-7348

CH7917-1

SN: 089983

MAKE: LORCIN
ENGINEERING

MODEL: L22

CALIBER: 22
n
:t>
      3:   3:    (fl
                 z
                        n       n
-     0    :t>          I       :::c
r     0    7'           '-.I
OJ
m
      m
      r
           m     C
                 :§:
                        N
                        N       "'
                                0
;:o
      N
           G)
           r     <
                 0
                        °'  I
                        1--'-
                                "'"'
                                 I
~     N    0     w              ~
0          n     '-.I           U1
           7'
                                °'\D
                                °'
              Gift Cards from SFK Pull 3-2025
Card I Last4                     Balance Expiration
Visa- 7023                        $200.00 10/31/2032
Visa - 5049                        $16.75       1/31/2033
Visa-6255                         $200.00 10/31/3032
Walmart - 2903                       $5.00         NA
Dollartree - 6055                    $6.14         NA
Wendy's - 8340                     $10.00          NA
McDonald's - 9260                    $5.00         NA
Taco Bell - 9984                   $15.00          NA
Olive Garden - 5650                $15.00          NA
                           ottonwood Heights
                          City !fftu'fm tht ranyo,u




                         Attachment 5
                     Resolution - 2025-63
 The Tavaci development was annexed into the city effective 1
 July 2025. This resolution will approve the city's entry into an
interlocal agreement with Salt Lake County and the Greater Salt
  Lake Municipal Services District whereunder the parties will
  cooperatively process and transfer development applications
    affecting realty within Tavaci which were filed before the
                    annexation's effective date.
                                COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                 RESOLUTION No. 2025-63


      A RESOLUTION APPROVING ENTRY INTO AN INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT
    WITH SALT LAKE COUNTY AND GREATER SALT LAKE MUNICIPAL SERVICES
DISTRICT FOR PROCESSING PRE-ANNEXATION TAVACI DEVELOPMENT APPLICATIONS


        WHEREAS, the lnterlocal Cooperation Act, UTAH CODE ANN. §11-13-101 et. seq. (the
"Interlocal Cooperation Act"), provides that any two or more public agencies may enter into
agreements with one another for joint or cooperative action following the adoption of an
appropriate resolution by the governing body of each participating public agency; and

        WHEREAS, Salt Lake County ("County"), Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
("District"), and the city of Cottonwood Heights ("City") are public agencies for purposes of the
Interlocal Cooperation Act; and

        WHEREAS, County has jurisdiction over all unincorporated areas within County and City
has jurisdiction over all areas within City; and

        WHEREAS, District provides planning and development services for County respecting
its unincorporated areas; and

        WHEREAS, effective 1 July 2025 the land on which the Tavaci Subdivision ("Tavaci")
sits was annexed by City from the unincorporated area of County; and

      WHEREAS, various applications, bonds, and permits ("Applications") were submitted to
County and District in association with Tavaci before that annexation date; and

        WHEREAS, City, County and District now jointly desire to enter into an interlocal
agreement (the "Agreement") whereunder they will cooperatively process and transfer pre-1
July 2025 Applications associated with Tavaci consistent with the Interlocal Cooperation Act on
the terms and conditions specified in the Agreement; and

       WHEREAS, City' s municipal council (the "Council") met in regular session on 19 August
2025 to consider, among other things, approving City's entry into the Agreement; and

       WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed the fo1m of the Agreement, a photocopy of which
is annexed hereto; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of City's residents to approve City's entry into the
Agreement as proposed;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights that the attached Agreement with County and MSD be, and hereby is, approved, and that
City's mayor and recorder are authorized and directed to execute and deliver the Agreement on
behalf of City.
     This Resolution, assigned no. 2025-63, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

     PASSED AND APPROVED this 19th day of August 2025.


ATTEST:                                   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _                    By:
                                                - - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                    Michae IT. Weichers, Mayor


                                          VOTING:

                                          Michael T. Weichers          Yea _Nay _
                                          Matt Holton                  Yea _ Nay _
                                          Suzanne Hyland               Yea _ Nay_
                                          Shawn E. Newell              Yea_Nay_
                                          Ellen Birrell                Yea_Nay_

     DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 19th day of August 2025.

     RECORDED this _ day of August 2025.




                                             2
                      INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT

                                 by and between
       SALT LAKE COUNTY, the GREATER SALT LAKE MUNICIPAL SEVICES
              DISTRICT, and the CITY OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS


        This Agreement (this "ILA" or "Agreement") is entered into by and between Salt Lake
County (the "County"), the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (the "MSD"), and the
city of Cottonwood Heights ("City"). This Agreement is entered into pursuant to the Interlocal
Cooperation Act, Utah Code Ann. § § 11 -13-101 et seq.

                                           RECITALS

   •   WHEREAS, the County has jmisdiction over all unincorporated areas within the County;
   •   WHEREAS, the MSD provides planning and development services for the County
       respecting unincorporated areas;
   •   WHEREAS, on July 1, 2025, the land on which the Tavaci Subdivision ("Tavaci
       Development") sits was annexed by the City;
   •   WHEREAS, vaiious applications, bonds, and permits ("applications") were submitted to
       the County and MSD in association with the Tavaci Development before that annexation
       date;
   •   WHEREAS, the County, MSD, and City wish to mem01ialize a cooperative process for
       processing and transferring pre-July 1, 2025 applications for the Tavaci Development
       consistent with the Interlocal Cooperation Act.

                                         AGREEMENT

1. Term (UCA § 11-13-206(1)(a))

This Agreement will be effective immediately upon the last to occur of the events described in
Section 11 and will remain in full force and effect until all obligations described herein have been
fully completed, including but not limited to pennit completion, bond administration, issuance of
Ce11ificates of Occupancy, and transfer of all files and records to City, but in no event shall the
Agreement be effective beyond five (5) years after its effective date.

2. Purpose (UCA § 11-13-206(1)(c))

The purpose of this Agreement is to coordinate the completion of all pre-July 1, 2025, Tavaci
Development pennit applications, bonds, and associated records by the County and MSD, ensure
orderly transfer of relevant data and documentation to the City, and preserve legal protections and
clarify responsibilities.

3.Scope

All complete pennit applications including, but not limited to: grading, land use, and building
permits with their associated submissions including, but not limited to construction plans, bond
documents, soil and engineering reports, and other related materials-which were submitted to
the County and MSD for the Tavaci Development on or before June 30, 2025---shall be
processed to completion solely by the County and MSD, regardless of the annexation status of
the Tavaci Development. The City shall process and otherwise assume responsibility for
applications or submissions received on or after July 1, 2025.

4. No Creation oflnterlocal Entity (UCA § 11-13-206(l)(b)

No separate legal or administrative interlocal entity is created under this Agreement. All
obligations and decision-making concerning this Agreement and the applications shall be handled
directly by the Parties or jointly by designated staff or administrator, and any acquisition, holding,
or disposal of records or property shall be addressed by the Parties, consistent with
UCA l l -13-206(l)(d) and (e).

5. Financing & Budget (UCA § 11-13-206(1)(d))

Each Party agrees to be responsible for its own costs, staffing and budgeting. No pooled or joint
budget will be created, and no Party shall be deemed to have assumed the fiscal responsibility of
another Party. All fees, costs and other payments collected by the County or the MSD prior to or
after the effective date of this Agreement that are related in any way to the Tavaci Development
shall be and remain the property of the said Parties and the City shall have no claim thereto except
to the extent such monies relate to applications originally filed after June 30, 2025.

6. Termination & Property Disposal (UCA § 11-13-206(1)(e))

Upon completion of all obligations- defined as final permit actions, bond closures, Ce11ificate of
Occupancy issuance, and full file transfer- this Agreement shall terminate automatically. Any
remaining records, files, or related materials held by the County or MSD shall be fo1mally
transferred to the City pursuant to Appendix A; and no items associated with the Tavaci
Development shall remain with the County or MSD. There shall be no joint ownership of property
as a result of this Agreement. To the extent a Party acquires, holds, or disposes of any real or
personal property for use in the joint or cooperative undertaking contemplated by this Agreement,
such Pai1y shall do so in the same manner that it deals with other prope11y of such Party.

7. Withdrawal (UCA § 11-13-206(l)(f))

Any Party may withdraw from this Agreement at any time by providing sixty (60) days prior
w1itten notice to the other Pai1ies. Such withdrawal does not affect the processing of any
applications received on or before June 30 and rights and obligations related to those applications
shall continue until completed. The City reserves the right to process any applications that are not
timely completed by the County or MSD.

8. Decision-Making (Voting) (UCA § 11-13-206(1)(g))

No formal voting strnctures or joint governing boards will be established by this Agreement. For
coordination purposes, the Parties shall defer to their respective Planning Directors or auth01ized
designees, each of whom shall have full authority to represent the County, the MSD and the City,
respectively. Any joint decisions shall be made by consensus of the Pa11ies, meaning that all three
designated representatives must agree.

                                                  2
9. Other Necessary & Proper Matters (UCA § 11-13-206(1)(h))

   •   Performance of Statutory Duties: Any pe1mits, bonds, or approvals lawfully issued by
       the County and MSD under this Agreement shall satisfy the County's and MSD's
       obligations under Utah law.
   •   Public Records: Parties shall maintain submitted documents in accordance with the
       Government Records Access and Management Act, Title 63G, Chapter 2 of the Utah Code.
   •   Indemnification: Each Party shall indemnify and defend itself against claims arising from
       its own actions under this Agreement consistent with Utah law but shall not be liable or
       responsible for the action or inaction of another Party.
   •   Representation in Litigation: Each Party will represent itself in litigation at its own cost.
   •   Retention of Governmental Immunity: The County and MSD retain governmental
       immunity for permitting actions taken after annexation respecting applications submitted
       on or before June 30, 2025, including subsequent submittals regarding such applications.
       The City shall have governmental immunity for permitting actions taken by it respecting
       applications originally submitted on or after July 1, 2025. Each Party acknowledges this
       immunity protection and agrees to defend, indemnify and hold the other Parties harmless
       respecting the same.

10. Appendices Incorporated

   •   Appendix A: Transfer & Delivery Schedule
   •   Appendix B: Notice & Contact Information

Appendices A and B are incorporated by reference as part of this Agreement.

11. Interlocal Cooperation Act Compliance

For the purpose of satisfying specific requirements of the Interlocal Cooperation Act, the Parties
agree as follows :

       (a)      This Agreement shall be approved by each Party pursuant to UCA § 11-13-202.5.

       (b)     This Agreement shall be reviewed as to proper form and compliance with
applicable law by duly autho1ized attorneys on behalf of each Party pursuant to and in accordance
with UCA § 11-13-202.5.

      (c)    A duly executed original counterpart or copy of this Agreement shall be filed
immediately with the keeper of records of each Party pursuant to UCA § 11-13-209.

12. Execution

The Agreement may be executed in counte1parts and will be effective as provided in Section 1
above.




                                                 3
                   INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT - SIGNATURE PAGE


SALT LAKE COUNTY


By: - --     - --     -     -   - - --
        Mayor or Designee

Date:
        - -- - - -- -- - - -

                                         Review and Advice as to fo1m and legality:


                                         By:
                                               - - ----------
                                                 Deputy District Attorney

GREATER SALT LAKE MUNICIPAL
SERVICES DISTRICT

By:-------------

Title: - -- - - - - - - -- -

Date: - -- - -- - -- - - --


                                         Review and Advice as to fo1m and legality:


                                         By:
                                               - - -- - - - - - - - -
                                                 Attorney for the MSD

COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS


B y : - -- - - - - - - - - -
    Michael T. Weichers, Mayor
Date: August 19, 2025

ATTEST:                                  Review and Advice as to form and legality:



B y : - -- - - - - - - --            -   By: - -- - - - - - - -- - -
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                   Wm. Shane Topham, City Attorney


                                            4
Appendix A - File Transfer & Delivery

I.PURPOSE

This appendix sets fo11h the fo1mat, timing, and method for County and MSD to transfer
necessary documents and records to the City.

2. DOCUMENT CATEGORIES & DELIVERY DEADLINES

                                                  Timing of         Delivery       Responsible
              Document Type
                                                 Submission         Method            Party
Soil rep011s (preliminary & final plat)
Engineering/subdivision files

Grading pe1mits

Land use permits (pre-July 1)

Building permits & Certificates of
Occupancy

Landscaping/infrastrncture bonding &
release documents

3. METHOD OF TRANSFER & ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF RECEIPT

   •   The County and MSD may transfer the documents to the City via email, direct mail, or by
       delivery.
   •   The City shall acknowledge receipt within 3 business days. If files are incomplete or
       conupt, the County or MSD must re-transmit within 2 business days after having been so
       notified.

4. FINAL AUDIT & CLOSE OUT

Within 60 days following final delivery, the Pa11ies will conduct a joint file completeness audit.
Any missing files must be supplied within 15 business days.




                                                5
Appendix B - Notice & Contact Information

1. NOTICES

All notices required by this ILA shall be delivered to the individuals listed below and are deemed
delivered when:

    •    Sent via e-mail with confumed delive1y/read receipt, or
    •    Sent via postal mail or delivery service (return receipt requested), or
    •    Personally delivered (with signed acknowledgement).

2. ENTITY CONT ACTS

                       Primary
     Entity                              Title               Address               Email            Phone
                       Contact
                                                        2001 S. State St.,
                                 Associate Deputy
Salt Lake          Lisa                                 Suite N2- l 00                              801-556-
                                 Mayor of Regional      Salt Lake City, LHartman@saltlakecounty.gov 1151
County             Hartman
                                 Operations
                                                        UT 84114-4575



                   Trent         Director of Planning   860 Levoy         tsorensen@msd.            385-459-
MSD                Sorensen      & Development          Drive, Suite 300, utah.gov                  9625
                                 Services               Taylorsville, UT
                                                        84 123

                                                        2277 East Bengal
Cottonwood                                              Blvd.,           jspung@ch.                 801-944-
                   Jim Spung     CED Director
Heights                                                 Cottonwood       utah.gov                   7060
                                                        Heights, UT
                                                        84121



3. UPDATING CONTACT INFO

Each Party shall provide written update to all other Parties within 10 business days after any
change in contact information.




4933-8943-6759, V. 5




                                                         6
