                                                                                c::2ia-/\·,,.
                                                                                 ~~o:~ood Heights
                                                                                   f",,,,.,, ..'IYII lhf'N,.,.IU




Meeting Requested:       Business Meeting D   Work Session IX!   Other D
Public Hearing Needed?   Yes □ No IX! Undetermined D
                         Deni~d □ Approved IX! cominued □
CM Approval or Denial
                         CM Signature: _ _~



Appendix I -Agendas for September 2, 2025, City Council Work Session and Business Mtg.

Appendix 2 - Meeting Minutes for City Council Meetings on 8/19/2025

Appendix 3 - Staff Report/ Pet Licensing and Off-Leash Penalties Jared Gerber

Appendix 4 - Staff Report/ Civil Code Enforcement Discussion Jared Gerber

Appendix 5 - Staff Report/ Employee Appeals Board Appointment Jared Gerber

Appendix 6- Staff Report/ Curfew Discussion Jared Gerber

Appendix 7 - Staff Report/Flash Vote Discussion Jared Gerber

Appendix 8 - Staff Report/Action Items Shane Topham


CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
Attachment 1 - Resolution 2025-64
Attachment 2 - Resolution 2025-65
Attachment 3 - Resolution 2025-66
         Cottonwood Heights
         C11y brtuoem thr (1111yo111




         Appendix 1

      September 2, 2025

City Council Work Session and
  Business Meeting Agendas
            NOTICE OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
                       WORK SESSION AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights City Council will hold a Work Session at
approximately 4:00 p.m., or soon thereafter, on Tuesday, September 2, 2025, in the Cottonwood
Heights City Council Work Room located at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood Heights,
Utah. The public may remotely view the open portions of the meeting through live broadcast by
connecting to https://www.youtube.com/(ti)CottonwoodHeights/streams, the city's YouTube
channel.


4:00 p.m.     1.     WELCOME - Mayor Mike Weichers

              2.     REVIEW OF BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA
                     Mayor Mike Weichers (10-15 min.)

              3.     STAFF REPORTS
                     (Each week the city council and staffprovide informational reports as a method of
                     keeping up on the day-to-day activities of the city. This agenda item is set aside to
                     allow council members to ask questions or for staffto bring the council up to date
                     regarding any changes since the report was made).

                   a. Pet Licensing and Off-Leash Penalties Discussion
                      City Manager Jared Gerber (20 min.)
                   b. Civi l Code Enforcement Discussion
                        City Manager Jared Gerber (20 min.)
                   c. Employee Appeals Board Appointments
                       City Manager Jared Gerber (20 min.)
                   d. Curfew Discussion
                       City Manager Jared Gerber (20 min.)
                   e. Flash Vote Discussion
                      City Manager Jared Gerber (20 min.)


              4.     REVIEW OF CALENDARS AND UPCOMING EVENTS*
                     a. Friday, September 12th at 3:00 p.m. - Mural Ribbon-Cutting &
                        Commemoration of Park Founder Edy Wright at Golden Hills Park
                     b. Friday, September 26th from 5:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. -Community Block
                        Party at Hillside Plaza
                     c. Friday, October 10th from 6:30 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. at City Hall - Special
                        Effects Halloween Makeup Workshop
                     d. Friday, October 24th - Monster Mash from 5:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. at
                        CWH Rec Center
                     e. Monday, December pt from 5:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. at City Hall - Light
                        the Heights
     f.   Saturday, December 6th from 7:30 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. at Butler Middle -
          Christmas Concert with Eclipse 6

     *For more information, please visit CH UTAH GOV and click Communitv
      Calendar


5.   POSSIBLE   CLOSED    MEETING   TO   DISCUSS
     LITIGATION; REAL PROPERTY PURCHASE OR
     LEASE; THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
     COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH
     OF AN INDIVIDUAL; AND/OR ANOTHER PERMITTED
     PURPOSE UNDER UCA 52-2-205

6.   ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION
                                          Cottonwood Heights
                                           Ciry between the canyons


            NOTICE OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
                      BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights City Council will hold a Business Meeting
beginning at approximately 7:00 p.m., or soon thereafter, on Tuesday, September 2, 2025, in the
Cottonwood Heights City Council Chambers located at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood
Heights, Utah. The public may remotely view the open portions of the meeting through live
broadcast by connecting to https://www.voutube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams, the
city's YouTube channel.
Persons physically attending the meeting in the C ity Council Chambers may make verbal comments
to the City Council when invited to do so, after completing a speaker comment card. Citizen
comments may also be submitted in writing to the city recorder at citvrecorder@ch.utah.gov by
noon, on the meeting date. In the interest of time and those attending the meeting live, however,
submitted written comments will be entered into the record and distributed to the C ity Counci l,
but will not be read at the public meeting.
Civility and decorum should be applied in all discussions and debates. Difficult questions,
tough challenges to a point of view, and criticism of ideas and information are legitimate elements
of a free democracy in action. Public officials and the public are encouraged to refrain from making
belligerent, personal, impertinent, slanderous, threatening, abusive, or disparaging comments.

7:00 p.m.      1.0     WELCOME -Mayor Mike Weichers

               2.0     PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE

               3.0    CITIZEN COMMENTS
                      During each regular city council meeting (specifically excluding work sessions),
                      there will be a period not to exceed sixty minutes for citizen comment. " (Cottonwood
                      Heights Code ofOrdinances 2. 30.160 (BJ) Persons physically attending the meeting
                      in the City Council Chambers may make verbal comments to the City Council when
                      invited to do so by the meeting chair. Persons attending the meeting remotely may
                      not make verbal comments to the City Council during the meeting. Persons attending
                      the meeting remotely, or who do not attend the meeting either physically or remotely,
                      are invited to submit written comments to the City Recorder before Noon. on the
                      meeting date. Written comments that are timely submitted will be admitted into the
                      record of the meeting and distributed to the City Council but will not be read at the
                      public meeting.

               4.0     ACTION ITEMS
               4.1     Consideration of Resolution 2025-64 Approving an Appointment to the
                       Parks, Trails, and Open Space (PTOS) Committee.
                       (This resolution will approve the manager's appointment ofScott Simonsen to the
                       city 's Parks, Trails and Open Space advisory committee).
               4.2     Consideration of Resolution 2025-65 Approving the Employee Appeals
                       Board.
                       (Utah Code Ann. §10-3-1106 requires each Utah city to provide an appeal
                           authority to hear appeals by city employees concerning certain specified
                           employment actions by the city, with the appeal authority's number of members,
                           procedure for conducting appeals, etc. prescribed by city ordinance. Cottonwood
                           Heights Code §2.180. 020(A) provides that the city's appeal board for any specific
                           appeal shall consist ofan individual selected by the city manager and approved by
                           the city council. To facilitate the timely appointment of an appeal authority for
                           eachfi1ture employee appeal, by this resolution the council will approve a roster
                           of qualified individuals to hear any such jillure appeals and will delegate to the
                           manager the power to select from that pre-approved roster a specific individual to
                           act as the city's appeal board for each such future appeal).
                  4.3      Consideration of Resolution 2025-66 Approving a Grant Agreement with
                           the Utah Division of Arts and Museums for FY 2025-2026.
                           (This resolution will approve the city's entry into an agreement whereunder the
                           Utah Division ofArts and Museums will grant $3,800 to the city's Arts Council for
                           its use during the current fiscal year).

                  5.0      CONSENTCALENDAR
                  5.1      Approval of the minutes for the City Council Work Session and Business
                           Meetings of August 19, 2025.

                  6.0      ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING


                                       PUBLIC COMMENT PROCEDURE
     During each City Council business meeting (specifically excluding work sessions), there will be a period
     not to exceed 60 minutes for citizen comment. (Code of Ordinances 2.30.160 (8)). Any person wishing
     to comment on any item not otherwise on the agenda for public comment may address the City Council
     during the Public Comment period. Any person wishing to comment during the Public Comment period
     shall request recognition by the Mayor and upon recognition, approach the microphone and state their
     name, state if they are a resident of Cottonwood Heights and either provide their address or their Council
     district; and then address the City Council. Any person wishing to comment shall limit their comments to
     no more than three (3) minutes unless more or less time is specified by the Mayor. Citizen groups who are
     present will be asked to appoint a spokesperson, who shall limit their comments to no more than five (5)
     minutes unless more or less time is specified by the Mayor. All comments shall be directed to the City
     Council. No person addressing the City Council during the comment period shall be allowed to comment
     more than once during that comment period. Speakers should not expect any debate or dialogue with the
     Mayor, City Council or City Staff during the meeting.
     The City Council may choose to limit the amount of time allotted to public comment on a specific issue.
     In such cases, special procedures for determining who will be allowed to speak and the order of such
     speakers will be determined by the Council. Tn the interest of time and those attending the meeting live,
     submitted written comments will be entered into the record, distributed to the City Council but not read at
     the public meeting.



On Thursday, August 29, 2025, a copy ofthe foregoing notices was posted in conspicuous view in thefi'ontfoyer ofthe
Cottonwood Heights City Offices, Cottonwood Heights, Utah. A copy ofthis notice was sent to the Salt Lake Tribune
and Deseret News, newspapers ofgeneral circulation in the city, by the Office ofthe City Recorder. The agendas were
also posted on the City 's website at 1vww.ch. utah.gov and the Utah Public Notice website at http: p11111. utah.ga r.

DATED this 29'" day ofA ugust 2025                                      Tiffany Janzen, City Recorder

The city building for this meeting is accessible. In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, people with
disabilities may make requests for reasonable accommodation or assistance by notifying the City Recorder at 80 l-944-
7021 or recorder 11 ch. utah. go,·, at least two business days before the meeting, or by calling Relay Utah at 711.
            Cottonwood Heights
            Ciry bttuv-m the ra11Jo111




           Appendix 2

      MEETING MINUTES
City Council Meetings for 8/19/2025
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION
HELD TUESDAY, AUGUST 19, 2025, AT 4:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
CITY COUNCIL WORK ROOM LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD,
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Members Present:         Mayor Mike Weichers, Council Member Ellen Birrell, Council Member
                         Suzanne Hyland, Council Member Shawn Newell

Staff Present:           City Manager, Jared Gerber; City Attorney, Shane Topham; Police Chief,
                         Robby Russo; Finance Director, Scott Jurges; Records, Culture, and Human
                         Resources Director, Barbara Higgins; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen;
                         Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; IT Manager,
                         Matt Ervin; Assistant City Engineer, Ben Nelson; Unified Fire Authority,
                         Riley Pilgrim; Public Works Director, Matt Shipp

1.0     WELCOME - Mayor Mike Weichers.

Mayor Weichers called the meeting to order at 4:00 PM.

2.0     REVIEW OF BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA - Mayor Mike Weichers.

Mayor Weichers reviewed the Meeting Agenda and stated that the Pledge of Allegiance would be
led by the new Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung, followed by City
Council Committee Reports and the Citizen Comment Period. Item 5 would be recognition of
Carol Woodside. Item 6 would be the Public Works Quarterly Report from Public Works Director,
Matt Shipp.

There were five legislative items on the agenda. Items 7 .1, 7.2, and 7 .3 were continued from the
last City Council meeting. City Manager, Jared Gerber, reported that the Applicant is in the
process of acquiring the access easement to the east and is now in agreement with all elements of
the original Development Agreement. Item 7.1 would approve the General Plan Amendment.
Item 7.2 would approve the rezone to R-2-8, Residential Multifamily. Item 7.3 would approve the
Development Agreement.

Item 7.4 would be Consideration of Resolution 2025-62 Approving Disposal of Unclaimed
Property or Former Evidence. Police Chief, Robby Russo, reported that the resolution was
regarding weapons that were seized as evidence in criminal actions but are no longer needed. If
the owner cannot be located or was convicted and can no longer own a firearm, the items are
eligible for disposal. The Police Department requested permission to destroy some weapons and
sell others to weapons dealers. Chief Russo stated that the City is not required to have a Federal
Firearms License ("FFL"). The weapons are sold to licensed FFL dealers, who are responsible for
completing background checks and filling out the appropriate forms to complete the transaction.

Item 7.5 was Consideration of Resolution 2025-63 Approving an Interlocal Cooperation
Agreement with Salt Lake County and Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District for
Processing and Transferring pre-1 July 2025 Applications for the Tavaci Development.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 19, 2025      Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                      1
Mr. Gerber reported that the agreement was related to inspections, bonding, etc., performed by the
District prior to annexation.

The final agenda item would be the Consent Calendar.

3.0    REPORTS

       3.1      Planning Department Land Use Amendment and Rezone at 3425 East Bengal
                Boulevard. Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung.

Mr. Spung reported that the request was for a General Plan Map Amendment and Zone Text
Amendment for the subject property. The Applicant proposed amending the Land Use Map from
Neighborhood Commercial to Residential Medium Density and rezoning from Neighborhood
Commercial ("NC) to Residential Multifamily ("RM"). The current owner indicated that they
were unsuccessful in finding potential developers or tenants for a commercial use on the property.
They also believe that residential would be better received, as most of the north side of Bengal
Boulevard is residential. Amending the Land Use to Residential Medium Density would bring it
into alignment with the rest of the area.

An aerial photograph of the former bank pro_perty was displayed, as well as a Concept Plan and
renderings indicating six proposed townhomes to be accessed from Oak Shadow Circle. The
Planning Commissioner recommended approval of both requests.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Hyland, Mr. Spung stated that, as proposed,
the townhomes should fit on the parcel, but Staff would need to verify that there is enough room
for the entrance stairs and two-car garages.

Council Member Birrell asked that the Council consider requiring an alleyway at the rear of the
townhomes instead of the garages fronting on Oak Shadow Circle. That would lessen the impacts
on Oak Shadow Circle. She also suggested requiring a larger setback on the residential side and a
smaller setback adjacent to the church parking lot, as that would make the development more
palatable to current residents who are disappointed that the property may be rezoned from NC.

Council Member Newell noted that other residents' garages front on Oak Shadow Circle. He did
not believe the parce1 was large enough to accommodate an alleyway.

Mayor Weichers stated that the Concept Plan indicates a 10-foot setback on the north side and 30
feet on the south side. As a result, the lot closest to Bengal Boulevard would have a large side
yard, and the northernmost lot would have a small side yard, which did not make sense. He
suggested sending the item back to the Planning Commission to consider a Zone Text Amendment
to allow for 20-foot setbacks on each side. Mr. Spung agreed that the Concept Plan reflected
current setbacks for the RM Zone, and a Zone Text Amendment would be an option to change
those setbacks.

In response to a question, Mr. Spung clarified that both the Bengal Boulevard and Oak Shadow
Circle frontages require a 30-foot setback for the corner property.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 19, 2025      Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      2
Council Member Hyland stated that she spoke with the developer, who indicated that a rear alley
would require an exit onto Oak Shadow Circle and a radius large enough for a hammerhead. He
did not believe there was enough available space, which could trigger the need for fire sprinklers
in every unit, which would increase the cost by $16,000 per door. However, he indicated a
willingness to increase the width of Oak Shadow Circle by six feet and move the townhomes six
feet to the east. She did not think it was in the residents' best interests to retain the NC zoning
because it could result in a worse outcome than rezoning for multifamily. If the lot were empty
and a bank was proposed for it, she believes residents would be equally upset. No solution was
optimal, so the Council needed to consider what was the best solution for the lot. She agreed with
Mayor Weichers that changing the setbacks would benefit the northern neighbor, as a 10-foot
setback is very close.

Council Member Hyland asked for more information on the specific requirements for an alleyway
and whether that is feasible. Mr. Spung stated that he would ask the developer to explore that
option. The developer had indicated that a desirable outcome of the proposed configuration was
that all townhomes would have a backyard, and an alleyway would remove that private space.
Staff would explore draft language for a Zone Text Amendment to require a larger setback for
parcels adjacent to single-family homes or other options to limit any potential negative outcomes
in other areas of the City.

Council Member Hyland stated that the developer also mentioned a non-monetary homeowners'
association. The units will be independent, which she believes will reduce the burden on the
homeowners. She believes the yards are an important aspect of that. Council Member Newell
agreed and stated that yards could help people come to and stay in the community.

Council Member Birrell disagreed because she believes that the homes could still have a garden
and porch in the front yard. She mentioned the challenges in Givemy, where the homes have very
small front and back yards with no privacy. She believes that having an alleyway behind the house
would create a sense of walkability and neighborliness in front of the homes and allow space to
store trash cans and park cars in the rear.

Council Member Newell expressed concern about blind spots in alleyways and their effect on
security. Council Member Birrell suggested that they could install motion sensor lights to mitigate
those dangers.

After discussion, it was decided that Mr. Spung would draft a Zone Text Amendment on the
setback issue to present to the Planning Commission. He would also verify whether six units will
fit on the parcel.

        3.2     Employee Handbook Training - Records, Culture, and HR Director Barbara
                Higgins.

Records, Culture, and HR Director Barbara Higgins indicated that all City employees receive
training and sign a form acknowledging that they understand the policies outlined in the Employee


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 19, 2025       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      3
Handbook. A later training would cover the State Ethics Act, and Disclosure Forms would be
required yearly per State law.

The Employee Handbook is broken down into six sections for easy reference:
   • Part 1 discusses the history of Cottonwood Heights, so employees are familiar with the
      City. It also outlines the mission and values that all employees are expected to uphold.
   • Part 2: Employment Policies
          o Cottonwood Heights is an Equal Opportunity Employer and has a zero-tolerance
              policy for discrimination or harassment of protected classes under Title 7 of the
              Civil Rights Act. Employees can report issues to human resources, their supervisor,
              or department heads without fear of retaliation.
          o Sexual harassment is regarded as a very serious matter and is prohibited in the
              workplace or among the workforce by any person and in any form. The following
              behaviors are prohibited:
                  • Unwelcome sexual flirtations, advances, propositions or touching;
                  ■   Verbal or written abuse of a sexual nature;
                  • Graphic verbal comments about an individual's body;
                  • Sexually degrading words used to describe an individual;
                  • Display in the workplace of sexually suggestive objects or pictures;
                  ■   Other conduct of a sexual nature which is inappropriate for the workplace.
                  ■ The "grandma filter" should be applied: If you can say it in front of your
                      grandma, it is probably safe.
          o Medical examinations are required for certain positions, and refusal may result in
              discipline. The addresses of approved exam locations are included in the handbook.
          o Employment of relatives: Anti-nepotism rules restrict hiring or supervising
              relatives.
          o Employees can review their files at any time. Medical information is stored
              separately per Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act ("HIPAA")
              requirements.
          o Termination of employment: Employees are encouraged to provide two weeks'
              notice of resignation. An exit interview is offered, and a separation form must be
              completed.
          o Unreported absences may result in disciplinary action including termination. In the
              case of an emergency, the employee or their representative should contact a
              supervisor.
   • Part 3: Compensation Policy
          o The payday schedule and related information is included.
          o Working hours and breaks are outlined, including the new 4/10 pilot program and
              remote work expectations.
          o Overtime pay is explained, including the premium pay for Butlerville Days and
              emergencies.
                  • Overtime is paid after 80 hours for sworn and 40 hours for non-sworn
                      employees.
                   ■  Any non-exempt employee who is deemed a disaster worker is eligible for
                      overtime.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 19, 2025     Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      4
            o Salary programs: Cottonwood Heights is committed to maintaining competitive
                wages and regularly conducts wage and benefit surveys of comparable entities. The
                Budget Committee then reviews the information and recommends changes as
                appropriate.
            o Pay for perfonnance is based on annual evaluations and implemented yearly on
                July 1. Employees at the top of their pay range may be eligible for a longevity
                bonus.
    •   Part 4: Leave
            o The City's 11 paid holidays are listed, and employees are paid for 10 hours of work
                on those days. The floating holiday was removed.
            o Accruals for non-sworn employees were decreased and are outlined in the
                handbook.
            o Paid time off ("PTO") cash-outs are c:xplained.
                    ■ For employees with at least -120 hours of PTO, up to 100 hours may be
                        cashed out at the end of the fiscal year and will be paid out at 50%.
                    ■ At separation, PTO is paid out at l 00% for employees who have worked
                        with the City for at least one year. Employees who separate with less than
                        one year of service will receive 50% of the accrued PTO.
            o Non-sworn personnel receive 80 hours of personal leave that must be used within
                the calendar year and is not paid out at separation.
            o Short-term medical leave is also available to non-sworn employees. They receive
                40 hours each year and can accrue up to 480 hours. Employees must meet Family
                and Medical Leave Act ("FMLA") requirements to use this leave.
            o Sworn employee vacation leave and sick leave is also outlined.
                    ■ There is no maximum sick leave accrual for sworn employees.
                    ■ If less than 32 hours of sick leave are used, a portion of the unused leave
                        can be converted to vacation leave.
                    ■ Some sworn employees can have sick leave paid out at 25% at termination
                        of employment or retirement.
            o Americans with Disabilities Act: The Human Resources Department is available to
                work with any employee on the application process for an accommodation.
            o Pregnant Workers Fairness Act: Affected employees can apply for an
                accommodation under this new Federal law regarding pregnancy, childbirth, or
                related medical conditions.
            o Family Medical Leave Act: Employees must work with the City for at least 12
                months and have 1,250 hours to be eligible for 12 weeks of job-protected, unpaid
                leave for themselves or to care for an immediate family member.               Military
                caregivers are eligible for 26 weeks ofleave.
                    ■   Non-sworn employees can use short-term medical leave for FMLA.
                    ■   Sworn employees can use sick leave for FMLA.
            o Bereavement leave is available to employees who experience the death of a family,
                including through miscarriage or stillbirth.
                    ■ Up to three days of leave are allowed for the death of siblings, grandparents,
                        or grandchildren.



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 19, 2025         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      5
                    •   Up to one week of leave is allowed for the death of a spouse or domestic
                        partner, parents, or children.
            o Jury duty leave is paid.
            o Military leave is provided for up to 120 hours per year. If the military pay is lower
                than the employee' s salary, the City will pay the difference.
            o Donation of up to 10% of vacation or PTO leave is allowed and will be converted
                to sick leave or short-tenn medical leave for the employee in need. Only one
                donation is allowed per illness, injury, or approved condition.
            o Unpaid leave is discouraged, but specific circumstances where it is allowed are
                outlined in the handbook.
    •   Part 5: Benefits
            o A summary of all benefits is provided.
            o A new Wellness Program will have a representative from each department and offer
                wellness challenges in various areas such as physical, emotional, social, and
                financial.
    •   Part 6: Employee Conduct
            o Employees are expected to accept responsibility, adhere to acceptable business
                principles, and behave respectfully toward themselves and others both on and off
                duty.
            o Guidelines include the duty to act lawfully, be ethical and loyal to the City, promote
                work efficiency and morale, and service to the general public.
            o The State Ethics Act applies to all elected and appointed officers, and regular, part-
                time, and seasonal employees. It prohibits the following:
                    • Sharing confidential City information for personal or others' gain.
                    • Using your position for person benefit or special treatment.
                    • Accepting gifts that could improperly influence you or reward official
                        action.
                    • Using City property for personal use without prior approval
                    • Conflicts of interest: Any situation where personal interest could influence
                        official decisions or actions.
                    • Employees have a duty to act in the City's best interest.
                    • Public disclosure is required annually and in other situations as listed on the
                        handbook.
            o Infonnation reporting and whistleblowing:
                    • Employees are expected to report suspected waste of public funds, property,
                        manpower, or violations of law.
                    • Employees should not spread malicious, false, or frivolous information, or
                        share confidential information for personal use or gain.
                    • It is all employees' responsibility to participate in City investigations,
                        hearings, or reviews.
            o Outside employment is secondary to City employment and must be approved by
                the department head. If denied, the decision can be appealed to the City Manager.
            o Employment references can only be shared by the appropriate personnel. Personal
                references may be given, and the City is not responsible for the content of those
                references.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 19, 2025        Approved: _ _ __ _ _

                                                      6
              o   Facts can be verified like date of hire or whether an employee gave notice, but no
                  opinions can be expressed on things like job performance.
              o   Computer and network usage policies are detailed, including the email policy.
              o   Workplace violence will not be tolerated and should be reported.
              o   Tobacco and e-cigarette use is prohibited.
              o   The drug policy is outlined, including triggers for requiring a drug test.
              o   The workplace search policy is detailed.
              o   Healthy and Safety is discussed, including safe practices for all employees,
                  emergency guidelines, and hazardous condition reporting.
              o   Vehicle use detailed, including use of both City and personal vehicles.
              o   The cellular phone policy is outlined.
              o   Romantic relationships between employees are discouraged, and relationships
                  between supervisors and subordinate employees are prohibited.
                      • A supervisor or the City Manager must be notified of relationships in
                         writing.
              o   The complaint resolution procedure is detailed. The City takes allegations of
                  harassment or discrimination very seriously. Employees facing disciplinary action
                  have the right to appeal.

Council Member Birrell asked if any of the items were new to the handbook. Ms. Higgins reported
that personal leave and short-term medical leave were new. Mr. Gerber added that a lot of the
language in the book was new because the previous manual was specifically a human resources
manual, and this is an Employee Handbook that outlines policies and procedures in more detail.

In response to a question from Council Member Hyland, it was clarified that the City does not
offer specific paid maternity leave, but FMLA allows 12 weeks and the Pregnant Workers Fairness
Act allows up to nine months of unpaid leave. Ms. Higgins reported that a few cities have begun
offering paid family leave.

Mr. Gerber thanked Ms. Higgins and her team for their work on the updated handbook. Policies
had been interpreted differently by different departments, and the new Employee Handbook would
ensure that all employees were treated the same.

Ms. Higgins reported that the disclosure form would be emailed to the City Council.

        3.3       Short-Term Rental Software Discussion - Council Member Hyland.

Council Member Hyland stated that the Council had previous discussions about obtaining short-
tenn rental ("STR") software to bring eligible properties into compliance with existing policy and
use the software's real-time data to inform future policy. At the Council's request, she asked
Granicus for an estimate of the number of unlicensed properties in allowed zones. They estimate
that there are 140 short-tenn rentals in allowed zones, approximately 50 of which are unlicensed
and can be brought into compliance. At $520 per license, that will generate over $25,000 in
revenue. The annual subscription to Granicus is $22,600.



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 19, 2025        Approved: _ _ _ _ _ _

                                                      7
Council Member Hyland asked for consent for a Budget Amendment to purchase the software for
one year and implement an annual license fee that could potentially be in place by ski season. She
believes it will make it easier for Staff to coordinate between depatiments and identify unlicensed
STRs. When police respond to nuisance calls, they will know if it is an STR.

Council Member Birrell asked for Mr. Spung's thoughts on the software. Mr. Spung stated that
he was aware of the Council's previous discussions but had not researched Granicus. Taylorsville
did not allow STRs anywhere.

Mayor Weichers stated that he is very interested in compliance and enforcement. If the software
could help bring STRs operating in allowed zones into compliance, he was in favor of moving
forward. Council Member Newell agreed. His primary concern was the budgetary impact, and
the numbers indicate that it will pay for itself. He was still concerned about how much Staff time
would be required, but he was comfortable moving forward.

Council Member Birrell stated that there was no guarantee of how many unlicensed STRs would
be brought into compliance, but they were only committing to the software for one year. There
were many benefits to STRs operating legally. She expressed her appreciation for Council
Member Hyland's time and efforts on the topic.

Council Member Hyland noted that the City will also receive additional transient room tax
("TRT") revenue. In response to her question, Mr. Gerber stated that he will verify that a Request
for Proposals ("RFP") will not be required.

        3.4     Arts District Discussion - Mayor Weichers.

Mayor Weichers stated th-at he and Council Member Birrell toured the city of Carmel, Indiana. He
presented a photograph of the entry to their Arts and Design District. He was very impressed with
the pillars and signage that let people know they were entering a different part of town where
Carmel honors art and design. He also attended a placemaking conference in Arkansas, where
they discussed different districts and ways that cities can create places people want to go and that
provide a sense of identity. He hopes that the Town Center will create an identity for Cottonwood
Heights.

Photographs from around the Cannel Arts and Design District were displayed. The lamp posts
have a unique design, and flowers are hung from the posts. Statues around the district are of people
doing everyday things like walking their dogs, sitting on benches, and shopping. Once they
defined the district's purpose, galleries began opening there. Mayor Weichers then presented
photographs of signs for other cities' arts and cultural districts.

Mayor Weichers had spoken with Arts Council Chair, Laura Garcia, about creating an arts district
in Cottonwood Heights, and she was very excited about the idea. He first considered Fort Union
Boulevard but realized that it would need to be an area where cars drive more slowly. He suggested
Bengal Boulevard beginning at City Hall through to Root'd, which already has murals. The south
side of Bengal Boulevard near Root' d has several buildings with cinderblock walls, and he believes
those property owners would be amenable to having murals painted on them. They could expand

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 19, 2025       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      8
the sidewalk, perhaps with pavers to announce that it is a different place, add benches, and build a
wall for murals or other art pieces. Although it would be on a smaller scale, it could be a way to
create that sense of space.

The City is not in the position to spend a lot of money on an arts district. However, at the Budget
Retreat, they discussed creating a 501(c)(3) foundation specifically for art that could solicit
donations, and that money could then be used to accomplish this goal. The Arts Council would be
closely involved. They could create signage to let people know they are in a different area. Mayor
Weichers believes people would be willing to travel at a slower speed through the area, and it
would inspire visitors from the City's sister city and other places. Multiple residents have painted
murals and other art pieces for the City in the past. Everyone he has spoken with has expressed
interest in the idea, and Mayor Weichers asked for the Council's interest in pursuing it.

Council Member Birrell stated that a challenge with Fort Union Boulevard is the large transmission
poles, and she agreed that the arts area would need to be on a narrower street. She stated that some
plots of land along Bengal Boulevard could be used for the goal of affordable housing. The City
could use fonn-based code to determine what it wants in this section of Bengal Boulevard, similar
to what Midvale has done with its Main Street. The area could be used to meet the City' s
affordable housing and walkability goals. She was in favor of exploring the idea.

Council Member Newell stated that the amenities are what draw people to an arts district, and the
Council needed to consider what types of amenities would fit in the area. He liked the idea, and
the park could be incorporated into the district and it would be great to have a place for cultural
events.

Council Member Hyland noted that the Council had previously discussed the fact that Bengal
Boulevard should be the City's most walkable and cyclable road due to the schools, park, and
recreation center. She supported the idea and believed it could spur additional development on the
vacantl0Ts to the east near Majestic Ridge Drive and Danish Road. Council Member Birrell had
pointea. out to her that the open area east of the Shell station could be used to increase active
transportation. Council Member Hyland was in favor of placemaking like they did with the Cedros
Design District in Solano Beach, California. Visitors park their cars and walk through the area,
and it is the primary destination for that city.

Mayor Weichers asked for Mr. Gerber's thoughts on forming a foundation. Mr. Gerber stated that
as long as the funds are usel on public property and for the public good, he was in favor of a
foundation. His concern during previous discussions was in regard to how the City could avoid
being arbitrary in the assignment of funds and who would benefit from them.

Council Member Birrell stated that Herriman has a nonprofit organization that handles most of the
City's cultural events. She attended a presentation on it and was very impressed. She
recommended that Mayor Weichers speak with Mayor Palmer about the idea. Mr. Gerber stated
that he had spoken with Herriman staff. The foundation is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization that
is separate from the city, but a city staff member does provide some support. Council Member
Birrell expressed support for a citizen-driven foundation.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 19, 2025       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      9
City Attorney, Shane Topham, explained the process for forming a foundation. He cautioned that
city-fonned 501(c)(3) organizations can sometimes move away from the city's initial goals but
noted that there could be ways to mitigate that risk. Mr. Gerber noted that budgeting and auditing
could be more complicated as they would need to ensure that everything is separate.

Council Member Newell stated that he was unsure of the repercussions to the City if the foundation
was transitioned from City control to another entity. If a nonprofit entity is dissolved, its remaining
resources belong to the state.

In response to a question, Mr. Gerber stated that, to his understanding, Herriman started their
foundation and then transitioned it to a separate entity with its own board. The city provides a
grant to the foundation each year. Conversely, Sandy City absorbed a 501(c)(3) that was
previously a separate entity.

Council Member Birrell indicated that she needed more time to consider the matter before moving
forward with an action step, but she was fascinated with the idea.

Council Member Hyland expressed support for Staff determining the requirements for forming a
501(c)(3) foundation. MayorWeichers and Council MemberNewell agreed.

        3.5     Bike Safety Updates - Council Member Birrell.

Council Member Birrell discussed the benefits of bike lanes as presented by Bike Utah at the recent
Wasatch Front Regional Council("WFRC") Active Transportation Committee quarterly meeting.

Bike lanes:

    •   Reduce vehicle-cyclist collisions by 30% to 49%.
    •   Reduce confusion and improve traffic flow.
    •   Reduce vehicle speeds by narrowing the road.
    •   Increase bicycle commuting.
    •   Lower emissions and improve air quality.
    •   Cyclists shop and spend more than drivers.

Cottonwood Heights uses the following types of bike lanes:

    •   Buffered bike lanes (two types: with and without parking near the curb)
    •   Standard bike lane (two types: with and without parking near the curb)
    •   Shoulder: No bike lane is demarcated, so cyclists ride on the shoulder outside of the solid
        white line.
    •   Shared lane: Sharrows are marked to alert motorists that there is no separate bike lane.

Council Member Birrell reported that loose gravel and other types of debris can sometimes force
cyclists to move into the vehicle lanes.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 19, 2025          Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                     10
House Bill 290 was reviewed next. The legislation prohibits parking or driving within a bike lane
(with exceptions) and requires that obstructions be minimized or detours provided during road
construction. The bill was intended to encourage better design, infonn drivers about bike lane
safety, and provide liability protection for cyclists when forced into traffic because of parked
vehicles. The goal of HB 290 is to encourage safe street design, not ticketing or surveillance.

Council Member Birrell showed an example of bike lane obstruction on 2300 East, where three
vehicles were parked in the bike lane. She reported that in a meeting with Mayor Weichers, Bike
Utah provided three potential solutions for 2300 East. The vehicle lanes are currently 12 feet
wide. All three suggestions included decreasing the width of those lanes.

    •   Option 1 would provide parking on one side of the street with the bike lane between the
        parking and travel lanes.

    •   Option 2 would also provide parking on one side, but the parking lane would be a physical
        barrier between the travel and bike lanes.

    •   Option 3 would be similar to Option 2 but would have dual-direction bike lanes.

Council Member Newell asked how they would determine which side of the street would allow
parking. Council Member Birrell recommended that a representative from Bike Utah be invited
to a future work session to answer that and other questions.

Council Member Hyland stated that only allowing parking on one side of the street could create a
safety hazard for pedestrians who have to park on one side and cross the road to their residence.
Council Member Birrell clarified that currently no parking is allowed on 2300 East.

Council Member Hyland stated that there are many different configurations and the Council did
not know enough about the subject. However, she did not believe the City should have so many
different types of bike lanes. For example, Draper has one type of bike lane. Council Member
Birrell is -of the opinion that the lanes should be contextual and appropriate for the different
roadways. Driveways, businesses, traffic speed and volume, etc. needed to be considered. She
did not believe Draper's decisions should color the Council's decision-making.

Mayor Weichers stated that Draper Mayor, Troy Walker, contacted him after the WFRC Active
Transportation Committee meeting to discuss issues unique to Cottonwood Heights. His opinion
was that it would be difficult to get residents and visitors to understand three or four different bike
lane configurations. Draper has one configuration, and everyone recognizes it. Mayor Walker is
a proponent of biking, but he believes that too many configurations can confuse people. The most
common configuration is two lines on the side of the travel lane.

Council Member Hyland was concerned about creating another safety hazard by allowing parking
on only one side of 2300 East. She advocated for uniformity.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 19, 2025         Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                     11
Council Member Birrell stated that a leveled buffer is superior to a painted buffer, but a painted
buffer is superior to a single line. A tenet of the Safe Systems for All approach is that all humans
use poor judgment at some point, whether they are driving, cycling, or walking. She believes the
design needs to put those tenets at the forefront. She also believes that Cottonwood Heights is
different from Draper, as it is more suburban, and Draper has more open spaces. She urged the
Council to review the Safe Systems for All information.

Council Member Newell stated that everyone thinks there is one rule for crosswalks, but the rnles
are different based on how they are painted. He believes the different bike lane configurations
create the same situation, and a deeper discussion was needed to determine what will work best
for the City. Mayor Weichers agreed that the Council needed to discuss how best to keep cyclists
and pedestrians safe and what configurations motorists would respect and adhere to.

Council Member Birrell stated that she believes human life is sacred, and it is the City Council's
obligation to do everything it can to put safety first. She did not believe it should be a matter of
what is convenient for motorists.

Police Chief, Robby Russo, stated that bike lanes were designated for safety reasons, but they were
not intended to prevent residents with di§abilities from parking in front of their own homes. He
asked for guidance on the Council's priorities in that area. Council Member Birrell asked if the
homeowner who was complaining was using their garage for a purpose other than parking their
vehicle. Chief Russo stated that there is more than one example of the problem, and in many cases,
it is more convenient for the disabled resident to enter and exit the vehicle on the street. Other
residents are also affected because they cannot have visitors or park in front of their home at any
time, and he did not believe that was the intent of the legislation.

Bike Utah offered the following four implementation tips:

    1. Start with education.
       Council Member Birrell reported that Mr. Gerber and Communications Manager, Beatriz
       Mayorga, have worked to educate citizens on bike safety via social media. Mr. Gerber
       stated that there was also an email campaign informing residents about the new legislation,
       as well as an article from Chief Russo in the July newsletter.

    2. Install targeted signs.

    3. Design for self-enforcement. Avoid placing bike lanes directly against the curb without a
       physical buffer so drivers do not mistake the bike lane for parking.

    4. Redesign problem areas.

Council Member Newell stated that Cottonwood Heights is not a blank slate like many other
municipalities and does not have a lot of space on its streets. He did not want to restrict residents
from parking on the street because that could cause more problems, including potential legal
issues. He looked forward to continued conversations on the topic.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 19, 2025        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     12
Council Member Birrell reminded the Council that Utah State law requires motorists to give
cyclists three feet of room on the road. She looked fo1ward to the Council's continuing dedication
to making the City' s streets safer and helping educate the public on how to be safe and reduce
injuries.

Mayor Weichers indicated that Bike Utah was doing an assessment on City roads and would be
making specific recommendations.

        3.6     Pergolas, Gazebos, and Other Open-Air Accessory Structures - Community
                and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung.

Mr. Spung presented the item and asked for the Council's direction on the best path forward
regarding open-air accessory structures in residential zones.

City Code currently requires detached structures to be set back a minimum of three feet from
property lines and six feet from any other structure. The Givemy Homeowners Association
requested an amendment to its Planned Unit Development ("PUD") because the small yards in the
community make it impossible to meet the six-foot setback from the house. The Planning
Commission denied the request on July 16, 2025, because they believe it would be unfair to grant
an exception to this specific PUD. They asked that the City Council consider a Text Amendment
that would apply citywide.

The current definitions for gazebos, pergolas, and residential accessory buildings were displayed,
and it was noted that the current Code does not specify separate setbacks for open-air structures
versus detached garages or sheds. Photographs of existing structures in the Givemy community
were reviewed. At the Council's direction, Staff could draft an amendment modifying the setback
between houses and these types of open structures in residential zones. The Building and Fire
Departments were infavor of the amendment for open structures only.

In response to a question raised by Mayor Weichers, Mr. Spung reported that the current ordinance
was focused on enclosed structures like detached garages and included building code regulations
to minimize hazards like fire spreading to another structure. The amendment would apply to open-
air structures only, so that risk would be lessened. Many cities exempt decks and other open-air
structures from specific setback standards.

Council Member Birrell stated that she had spoken with residents of Givemy. The lots are as small
as 0.10 acres. The houses were built over an eight-year period, and the grade varies considerably
within the community. Without a pergola-type structure, some residents would have no privacy.
A Planning Commissioner she spoke with indicated that they believed it lacked equity to allow for
a special exception within Givemy and the rule should be applied citywide. Mr. Spung clarified
that the Planning Commission specifically referenced the R-1-8 Zone because that is the most
compatible with the Givemy development, but the change could be considered for all residential
zones.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 19, 2025      Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                     13
In response to a question from Council Member Birrell, Mr. Gerber confinned that the three-foot
setback would need to be maintained because the Building Code requires a fire-rated wall for
structures closer than three feet from the property line.

Council Member Hyland stated that she listened to the entire Planning Commission meeting and
agreed with their conclusion that the rule should be applied more broadly. Open-air structures
should be treated differently from sheds or accessory dwelling units. Mayor Weichers agreed.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Birrell, United Fire Authority Assistant Chief,
Riley Pilgrim, stated that open-air structures are a fairly low risk.

Mr. Spung reported that the Text Amendment would help most affected homeowners in the
Givemy PUD, but some existing structures will have to be removed. It would also allow other
homes in the City to have these types of amenities. In response to a question from Council Member
Hyland, he confirmed that the setback between the primary and accessory structures would be
changed, not between the structure and fence.

Council Member Birrell asked if the material composition of the pergola would matter. It was
concluded that the materials did not matter.

Council Member Newell stated that structures with roofs or other elements could cause concern,
but he did not see an issue with standard pergolas.

After discussion, it was decided that Mr. Spung will draft a Text Amendment to present to the
Planning Commission.

4.0     REVIEW OF CALENDAR AND UPCOMING EVENTS.

       4.1      Wednesday, August 20 at 1 :30 p.m. - Senior Social at City Hall.
       A .2     Saturday, August 23 from 9:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. - Bark in the Park at
                Mountview Park.
        4.3     Friday, September 12 at 3:00 p.m. - Mural Ribbon Cutting at Golden Hills
                Park.
        4.4     Friday, September 26 from 5:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. - Community Block Party
                at Hillside Plaza.
        4.5     Friday, October 24-Monster Mash from 5:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. at CWH Rec
                Center.

Council Member Hyland reported that Assistant Police Chief, Paul Brenneman' s, retirement party
would be held on Friday, September 12 from 1:00 p.m. to 3 :00 p.m. Mr. Gerber will notify the
Council of the date for City Treasurer, David Muir's, retirement party.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 19, 2025      Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                     14
5.0    POSSIBLE CLOSED MEETING TO DISCUSS LITIGATION; REAL PROPERTY
       PURCHASE OR LEASE; THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
       COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH OF AN INDIVIDUAL;
       AND/OR ANOTHER PERMITTED PURPOSE UNDER UCA 52-2-205.

Motion: Council Member Hyland moved to ADOURN the Work Session and move into a Closed
Meeting to Discuss Potential Litigation. The motion was seconded by Council Member Newell.
The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.

The City Council was in Closed Session from 6:00 PM to 6:50 PM.

6.0    ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION.

The Work Session adjourned at 6:50 PM.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 19, 2025   Approved: _ _ _ __

                                                     15
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
HELD TUESDAY, AUGUST 19, 2025, AT 7:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD,
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Members Present:        Mayor Mike Weichers, Council Member Ellen Birrell, Council Member
                        Suzanne Hyland, Council Member Shawn Newell

Staff Present:           City Manager, Jared Gerber; Police Chief, Robby Russo; Finance Director,
                         Scott Jurges; Records, Culture, and Human Resources Director, Barbara
                         Higgins; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen; Community and Economic
                         Development Director, Jim Spung; IT Manager, Matt Ervin; Public Works
                         Director, Matt Shipp; Assistant City Engineer, Ben Nelson; Unified Fire
                         Authority, Riley Pilgrim

1.0     WELCOME

Mayor Weichers called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM.

2.0     PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE

The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Community and Economic Development Director, Jim
Spung.

3.0     CITY COUNCIL COMMITTEE REPORTS

        3.1      Committee Reports by Council Member Matt Holton.

Council Member Holton was excused.

        3.2      Committee Reports by Council Member Suzanne Hyland.

Council Member Hyland sits on the Emergency Management Committee, and she encouraged
citizens to be extra vigilant of the Wildland-Urban Interface in the hot, dry conditions. She is also
a member of the Health in the Heights Committee, which has applied for a grant to display
advertising to prevent underage drinking at the Recreation Center. She has seen the draft
advertisements and is excited to see them at the Recreation Center. Registration for the
Thanksgiving SK Race will begin in September. It is a popular event that sells out quickly, so
interested residents should register as soon as possible. A ribbon cutting for the mural at Golden
Hills Park will be held on September 12 at 3:00 p.m.

Council Member Hyland and Council Member Birrell, along with two residents, met with Salt
Lake County Aging and Adult Services Director, Paul Leggett, to talk about the senior services
they would like to see offered in Cottonwood Heights as the Town Center is developed and the
Whitmore Library is rebuilt. Cottonwood Heights does not have a county-supported recreation


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 19, 2025        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     16
center or senior center despite having the oldest average age in Salt Lake County, and it is
important that services be provided for the City's seniors.

She is also on the South Valley Chamber of Commerce Women in Business Committee and
attended a lunch with Gail Miller, who spoke about how to be better mentors to assist women in
starting businesses and launching careers. Ms. Miller talked about having an open heart policy
and leading with empathy. It was remarkable to see how the Chamber is impacting and supporting
Cottonwood Heights businesses.

Council Member Hyland is a member of the Utah League of Cities and Towns ("ULCT")
Legislative Policy Committee's Housing Advisory Subgroup. They are working on accessory
dwelling unit ("ADU") policies and balancing the impact when a city allows additional units to
add density but not additional infrastructure, which is a big concern. They identified five "Ls" of
affordable housing challenges: land, labor, lumber, lending, and law. Cottonwood Heights is
limited in what it can do about any of those items except the law. ft is a very complex topic, and
she is grateful that ULCT is talking with cities about what can be recommended for policy changes
at the State level.

        3.3     Committee Reports by Council Member Shawn Newell.

Council Member Newell is a member of the South Valley Chamber of Commerce Board of
Directors. They will be holding a "Business Bootcamp" event for human resources professionals
on August 20, and an "In the Know" event on August 21 to discuss the Big, Beautiful Bill.

He is the Cottonwood Heights Arts Council liaison. Local artists have been painting electric boxes
throughout the City, andmore boxes will be available to paint soon. He encouraged any residents
who are interested in adding _!hei! art to an electric box to contact the Arts Council. There will be
a moulage special effects makeup workshop on October 10. The instructor creates realistic wounds
for first responder trainings and will be teaching residents how to apply similar makeup for
Halloween.

Council Member Newell serves on the Canyons Education Foundation Board of Directors. Last
week, they held an event for new teachers who were either transferring into the district or
beginning their teaching careers. He also participated in their red carpet event: the first day of
elementary school. It was great to see how excited the students were to start school. Butler
Elementary School has 604 students this year.

        3.4     Committee Reports by Council Member Ellen Birrell.

Council Member Birrell stated that the end of summer is a time when many people are out walking
and rolling in the community. Many of her efforts over the last month were related to roadway
safety. She reminded everyone that what makes the roads safer for pedestrians and cyclists also
makes them safer for motorists, and that is largely tied to slower speeds. She attended the Bike
Utah Summit at Utah Valley University, which was very informative. She also attended the
Wasatch Front Regional Council ("WFRC") Active Transportation Committee quarterly meeting.
They are advancing better practices for active transportation.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 19, 2025        Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                     17
The School Community Councils ("SCC") make recommendations on safe routes for students, and
Council Member Birrell believes more work can be done to keep them safe all the way from their
home to school. She looks forward to seeing another bike bus at Butler Elementary School this
year.

Council Member Birrell gave a presentation about the recent bike lane legislation during the Work
Session. The City will continue to educate citizens about the legislation that prohibits motor
vehicles from blocking bike lanes.

In addition to the ribbon cutting for the mural, the City will also honor community matriarch Edy
Wright on September 12 at 3:00 p.m. at Golden Hills Park. Ms. Wright was instrumental in
bringing the park to the community.

Council Member Birrell reported that she has met with residents and Staff regarding blight around
the City as a result of the hot, dry conditions gue to climate change. The Great Salt Lake is also
drying up, which poses air quality hazards. Many responsible homeowners are turning their
sprinklers off, which can inadvertently kill trees in addition to grass.

        3.5     Committee Reports by Mayor Mike Weichers.

Mayor Weichers encouraged citizens to follow Cottonwood Heights on social media. In
conjunction with Canyons School District, the City has been publishing information on pedestrian
and school safety. Children are back in school and will be on the streets more. Residents should
drive safely and be on the lookout for pedestrians.

City flags were at half mast in honor of the Tremonton police officers who lost their lives.
Cottonwood Heights stands with the community and its police officers. The Council's thoughts
are prayers were with them, and with the City's officers as well.

Two long-term City employees will be retiring in September. Assistant Police Chief, Paul
Brenneman, and City Treasurer, David Muir, have been with the City since its incorporation and
will be missed. Mr. Muir reported to him that the City had saved $75 million by having its own
police department and being a member of the United Fire Authority instead of the United Fire
Service Area, which proves that Cottonwood Heights incorporated at the right time and made the
right decision.

4.0     CITIZEN COMMENTS

Chase (last name unknown) stated that he lives on Creek Road and was concerned about the
intersection of Creek Road and Danish Road. Cars do not yield to pedestrians at that intersection.
He has also expressed his concerns to a Cottonwood Heights police officer. Last winter, 1O
minutes after he checked his mail, a reckless driver demolished his mailbox. The speed monitoring
sign did not work, and he believed the City needed to take action. There are a lot of pets and
children in the area, and he wanted to avoid a tragedy. He asked that officers patrol the road
regularly to help resolve the problems with speeding and loud mufflers.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 19, 2025      Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     18
Alan Mark stated that six weeks previously, he and his daughter were driving on Bengal Boulevard
at approximately 25 miles per hour when a vehicle passed on his right. His front and rear cameras
verified his speed, and the other vehicle was driving approximately 50 miles per hour. The next
morning, he spoke with a police officer who indicated that he could not issue a ticket based on the
video. However, he obtained the license plate number from the video and called the person, who
apologized.

The previous Sunday, while walking his dog through the intersection of Creek Road and Danish
Road, a car sped through the intersection and almost hit him. He always videos the intersection
on his phone because of the number of times he has experienced similar situations. He called 91 1.
An officer did not come to the location, but Mr. Mark texted him the video and photographs. He
did not hear from the officer that day or the following day. He visited the police station again
earlier that morning, but the officer told him there was not enough information to proceed. He
asked that something be done to add traffic calming measures to the area.

Audrey Pines stated that the updated website looks great. She provided the Council with the
originally approved maps for the ballpark at Dover Rill Park. She approved of the plans for the
Wells Fargo property because people want yards, and she hoped the Council would help that
developer in any way they could. Ms. Pines thinks an arts district is a great idea, and private
funding is attainable. People bike and walk on Bengal Boulevard, and she would love to see a
basketball hoop, ice skating rink, and pizza or ice cream restaurants in the area. Near the liquor
store and below Highland Drive are areas that need attention and would be great for an arts district,
but she did not believe Bengal Boulevard was the right place for it.

Maggie Mills provided updates on the Whitmore Library. The nonfiction book club meets every
third Wednesday, and the next meeting will be on August 20 at 7:00 p.m. to discuss Forager by
Michelle Dowd. The produce sw_:ap will be held on Thursdays, Fridays, and Saturdays through
September. Preschool story times begin in September. The five-week "Stay Connected with Your
Teen"Workshop series for caregivers of teens will begin on October 1 at 6:00 p.m. Food will be
provided. A link to register for the event with Salt Lake County Youth Services is available on
the library website.

Troy Ripplinger expressed concern about bike lanes. He drives in Cottonwood Heights every day,
and the driving lanes have been nanowed to accommodate the bike lanes. He sees responsible
cyclists, but he also sees themridlng in the middle of the road or side-by-side in pairs or groups of
four that do not yield to vehicles. He has also seen cyclists running red lights and doing other
things that make him wonder if they know the rules of the road. He asked that the City Council
consider requiring a license to operate a bicycle. He understands motorists' responsibilities to
make the roads safer for cyclists, but cyclists also have a responsibility, and there is no non-
confrontational way to hold them accountable without a license.

5.0     RECOGNITION

        5.1     Carol Woodside - Mayor Weichers.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 19, 2025        Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                     19
Mayor Weichers read a proclamation honoring Carol Woodside for her volunteerism and history
of service on the Historic Committee. She was then presented with a plaque and flowers. Council
Member Birrell expressed her appreciation for Ms. Woodside and the Historic Committee.

6.0    STANDING OUARTERL Y REPORTS

       6.1      Public Works Report - Matt Shipp.

Public Works Director, Matt Shipp, presented the Quarterly Report on recently completed, current,
and pending Public Works projects.

Current Projects
  • Steffensen Heights reconstruction: This project is underway. The road has been milled,
      and curb and gutter are being installed. The storm drain infrastructure is also being
      upgraded to help alleviate issues with runoff, a project that is funded by the Storm Water
      Fee. Some street lights have been replaced, and conduit is being run to locations for future
      additional lighting.
   • City striping: Approximately ?0% of planned striping has been completed.
   • Kings Hill storm drain: Concrete pipe and wing walls are being installed to direct water
      and resolve issues with spring runoff in the area. This project is being funded by the Storm
      Water Fee.
   • Creek Road sidewalk: A grant was received to cover 60% of the costs for this project to
      connect two sections of sidewalk on the north side of Creek Road, and construction was
      scheduled to begin on September 2.

Completed Projects
  • Fort Union multiuse path: The project to connect the paths from Brookhill Drive to 1700
     East was completed in early summer.
  • Nye Drive sidewalk: The project corrected trip hazards in several locations in this
     neighborhood. Curb, gutter, ~and sidewalk were replaced. A similar project in another
     neighborhood was nearin_g completion, and a third would begin soon.
  • City entrance beautification: Work in the medians on Union Park Avenue from Interstate
     215 to Creek Road included removal of weeds and dead vegetation, installation of new
     irrigation, planting of trees and plants, and new mulch. Many of the trees were left over
     from the tree sale. Mr. Shipp commended the Public Works staff for their commitment to
     beautifying the medians. Redevelopment Agency ("RDA") funds were being used for
     some sections of the project. Mayor Weichers stated that he has received positive
     comments about the project from 20 citizens.

Projects in Design
   • Staker Way drainage: A sump pump is being designed to resolve drainage issues and will
       be installed when 1700 East is repaved. This project is also being funded by the Storm
       Water Fee.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 19, 2025      Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     20
      •     Highland Drive and Fort Union Boulevard intersection improvements: A $2 million grant
            was received from the WFRC to improve this intersection, and it is now in 30% design.
            Impact Fee funds are being used for the City's portion of the design.
      •     Highland Drive Phase 3: The multi-use trail on the west side of Highland Drive from
            Interstate 215 to Fort Union Boulevard is in design. Mr. Shipp expected to present options
            to the City Council at a September meeting.

Studies
   • Fort Union Boulevard and 2300 East Traffic Study: This has been completed and presented
       to the City Council.
   • Storm Drain Master Plan: The update is in process and approximately 60% complete. Staff
       is working in the field to camera the system and provide system-specific information to the
       consultant.

Outside Projects
   • Cottonwoods Connection: Work will be completed on Fort Union Boulevard in mid-
      September. Pipe placement on Danish Road will occur in the fall or winter.
   • Utah Department of Transportation ("UDOT") Project 21798 for Fort Union Boulevard
      and Wasatch Boulevard: This~project was postponed due to budget restraints.
   • UDOT Project 21844 for Bengal Boulevard and Wasatch Boulevard: This project is
      pending property acquisition.
   •  Bengal  Boulevard projects: The project across the street from the school on Bengal
      Boulevard is to repair a broken water line. The center lane has been reopened. The project
      to the east is to relocate a sewer line. The project farther to the east is a gas line
      replacement. Those are not City projects, but Mr. Shipp is keeping track of them.

7.0         ACTION ITEMS

          ._: -7' ,1   Consideration of Ordinance 441-A Approving a General Plan Amendment for
                       .95 Acre of Realty at 3526 East Fort Union Boulevard from Residential Office
                       to Residential Mediuin Density. (This ordinance will approve amending the
                       city's general plan to change the land use map designation of the referenced
                       parcel of realty from Residential Office to Residential Medium Density. This
                       approval is conditioned on the prior execution, delivery and recording of the
                       development agreement contemplated by proposed Resolution 2025-54).

Mayor Weichers reported that this item was discussed in previous sessions and during the Work
Session.

MOTION: Council Member Newell moved to APPROVE Ordinance 441-A Approving a
General Plan Amendment for .95 Acre of Realty at 3526 East Fort Union Boulevard from
Residential Office to Residential Medium Density. The motion was seconded by Council Member
Hyland. Vote on Motion: Council Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member Newell-Yes; Mayor
Weichers-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 19, 2025          Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     21
        7.2     Consideration of Ordinance 442-A Approving the Rezone of .95 Acre of Real
                Property Located at 3526 East Fort Union Boulevard from R-1-8 {Residential
                Single Family) to R-2-8 (Residential Multi-Family) and Amending the Zoning
                Map. (This ordinance will approve rezoning the referenced parcel ofrealty from
                R-1-8 to R-2-8 and will amend the zoning map accordingly. Approval of this
                ordinance will only be appropriate if Ordinance 3 79-A approving a general plan
                amendment for the subiect realty is approved. Further, this approval is
                conditioned on the prior execution, delivery and recording of the development
                agreement contemplated by proposed Resolution 2025-54).

Mayor Weichers reported that this item was discussed during the Work Session.

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to APPROVE Ordinance 442-A Approving the
Rezone of .95 Acre of Real Property Located at 3526 East Fort Union Boulevard from R-1-8
(Residential Single Family) to R-2-8 (Residential Multi-Family) and Amending the Zoning Map.
The motion was seconded by Council Member Newell. Vote on Motion: Council Member
Newell-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Mayor Weichers-Yes.              The motion passed
unanimously.

        7.3     Consideration of Resolution 2025-54 Approving a Development Agreement
                with Land Development, LLC. (This resolution will approve the City's entry
                into a development agreement with Land Development LLC imposing certain
                limitations on the proposed development of approximately .95 acre of realty
                located at 3926 Fort Union Boulevard in the City).

Mayor Weichers reported that this item was discussed during the Work Session. Council Member
Hyland thanked Mr. Nash for considering the nearby residents and working with the City to reach
an agreement.

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to APPROVE Resolution 2025-54 Approving a
Development Agreement with Land Development, LLC. The motion was seconded by Council
Member Newell. Vote on Motion: Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes;
Mayor Weichers-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

        7.4     Consideration of Resolution 2025-62 Approving Disposal of Unclaimed
                Property or Former Evidence. (This resolution will authorize disposal of
                unclaimed property and/or property no longer needed as evidence).

Mayor Weichers reported that this item was discussed during the Work Session.

MOTION: Council Member Newell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2025-62 Approving
Disposal of Unclaimed Property or Former Evidence. The motion was seconded by Council
Member Hyland. Vote on Motion: Council Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member Newell-Yes;
Mayor Weichers-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 19, 2025    Approved: _ _   _ _ __

                                                     22
      7.5      Consideration of Resolution 2025-63 Approving an Interlocal Cooperation
               Agreement with Salt Lake County and Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services
               District for Processing and Transferring Pre-1 July 2025 Applications for the
               Tavaci Development. (The Tavaci development was annexed into the City
               effective 1 July 2025. This Resolution will approve the City's entry into an
               Interlocal Agreement with Salt Lake County and the Greater Salt Lake
               Municipal Services District, whereunder the parties will cooperatively process
               and transfer development applications affecting realty within Tavaci which were
               filed before the annexation's effective date).

Mayor Weichers reported that this item was discussed during the Work Session. In response to a
question from Council Member Hyland, it was clarified that the agreement allows Salt Lake
County to finish any permits that were applied for prior to annexation.

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to APPROVE Resolution 2025-63 Approving an
Interlocal Cooperation Agreement with Salt Lake County and Greater Salt Lake Municipal
Services District for Processing and Transferring Pre-1 July 2025 Applications for the Tavaci
Development. The motion was seconded by Council Member Newell. Vote on Motion: Council
Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Mayor Weichers-Yes. The motion passed
unanimously.

8.0    CONSENT CALENDAR

       8.1     Approval of the Minutes for the City Council Work Session and Business
               Meetings of August 5, 2025

MOTION: Council Member Newell moved to APPROVE the Consent Calendar, as presented.
The motion was seconded by Council Member Hyland. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Council.

9.0    ADJOURN

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to ADJOURN. The motion was seconded by Council
Member Newell. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.

The City Council Meeting adjourned at 8:01 PM.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutesfor August 19, 2025     Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                    23
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the
Cottonwood Heights City Council Work Session and City Council Business Meetings held on
Tuesday, August 19, 2025.


Te~{ Forbes
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for August 19, 2025   Approved: _ _ __ _ _

                                                     24
                        I ~,
               ottonwood Heights
             Cuy bm,vw, 1l1t rtlll)Y/111




            Appendix 3

         STAFF REPORT

Pet Licensing and Off-Leash Penalties

            Jared Gerber
Meeting Requested:         Business Meeting D       Work Session ~      Other □
Public Hearing
Needed?                    Yes □ No ~ Undetermined □

CM Approval or Denial      Deni~d □ Approved ~ V '? ued □
                           CM Signature:-~      ~{_


Background
There was a request to look at whether or not there is still a need for pet licensing in the City, and if
so, if our fees are adequate for the expended effort in maintaining licensing. A memo from Chief
Russo is attached to this memo, helping to explain the reasoning for these licenses.

Additionally, there have been an increasing number of concerns reported regarding off-leash pets.
This discussion will help clarify the penalties and determine whether changes to the ordinance
might be warranted to help deter the number of incidents in the community.

Request
Staff is looking for direction from the council regarding the future of pet licensing and off-leash
penalties.
                                                     .

TO: Mayor and City Council
FROM: Chief Russo
                                            •
DATE:August26,2025
SUBJECT: Advantages of Maintaining a Dog License Program

Synopsis

Maintaining a municipal dog licensing program provides significant advantages for public safety,
fiscal management, and community well-being. The program ensures compliance with rabies
vaccination requirements, allows Animal Control to quickly identify and return pets, and supports
enforcement of leash and dangerous dog ordinances.

Licensing also generates a dedicated revenue stream that offsets the cost of animal control
services, sheltering (currently contracted with Sandy City), and public education, while providing
accurate data for planning and budgeting. For residents, licensing reduces impoundment costs,
encourages responsible ownership through vaccination verification and spay/neuter incentives,
and strengthens awareness of animal welfare programs.

From a legal and liability standpoint, licensing offers proof of ownership in disputes and
demonstrates the City's proactive commitment to public health and safety. Additionally, the
licensing process serves as an opportunity to share information on microchipping, spay/neuter
services, and animal care, while building partnerships with local shelters, rescues, and
veterinarians.

Fee Comparison and Recommendation

The Cottonwood Heights Police Department supports a modest increase in licensing fees to align
more closely with neighboring jurisdictions while remaining affordable for residents. Current fees
and comparisons are as follows:

    •   Cottonwood Heights

           o    Unsterilized: $25.00

           o    Sterilized: $5.00

    •   Murray, Holladay, Salt Lake County

           o    Unsterilized: $50.00

           o    Sterilized: $25.00

    •   Sandy
           o   Unsterilized: $45.00

           o   Sterilized: $6.00

Cottonwood Heights' sterilized fee is significantly lower than surrounding communities, and
unsterilized fees are roughly half of neighboring averages. Adjusting our fee structure would
improve cost recovery for animal control services while still offering a competitive and responsible
rate for residents.

Conclusion

A municipal dog license program is a cost-effective, practical tool that protects residents, assists
pet owners, supports fiscal responsibility, and upholds community standards of animal welfare.
Maintaining the program-along with a fee adjustment-will ensure sustainability, increase
fairness with surrounding municipalities, and continue to provide clear benefits for the City, the
community, and pet owners alike.



/s/ ERR
                      t /f\ '
           Cottonwood Heights
           Ciry b<tu><m ti~ r,111,-0111




           Appendix 4

        STAFF REPORT
Civil Code Enforcement Discussion

          Jared Gerber
Meeting Requested:        Business Meeting □      Work Session 1:81   Other □
Public Hearing
Needed?                   Yes □ No 1:81 Undetermined □

CM Approval or Denial     Deni~d □ Approved ~ 5:;ued □
                          CM Signature: ~ ~


Background
There is a desire to explore the use of civil enforcement for property code violations. Staff will
present various options and summarize the pros and cons of both civil and criminal enforcement,
then lead a discussion to determine if changes are warranted to the code to achieve better
compliance among property owners who are in violation of the code. Below is a quick summary of
what other cities in the county are utilizing:

City             Enforcement model (property violations)

                  Civil/Administrative in code (with daily civil fines); criminal remains available in
Salt Lake City
                  some provisions

West Valley      Civil/Administrative (formal hearing program); may still criminally prosecute
City             other offenses

IWest Jordan     IHybrid (civil administrative path+ criminal option)


E
!Draper
                 Civil/Administrative (hearing officer+ admin citations); criminal still exists for
                 some offenses

                 Hybrid (admin citations used+ judicial/criminal)

IRiverton        Civil/Administrative (explicit admin citation & hearing)

!Taylorsville    Civil/Administrative (explicit program)

IHerriman        Hybrid (civil fines and criminal penalties; AU for ad min hearings)

!Holladay        Hybrid (admin enforcement program + city can choose civil or criminal)
                                                                                                      I
City              Enforcement model (property violations)

South Salt
                  Hybrid (criminal default+ adm in citation option)
Lake

!Millcreek       ICivil/Administrative in practice (AU/hearing for city enforcement actions)
!Midvale         ICivil/Administrative (explicit admin citations; staff issue warnings/citations)
!Murray          IHybrid (civil remedies+ criminal prosecution via justice court)


E:J               Civil/Administrative (uses administrative citations ; also criminal for some
                  offenses)

Criminal enforcement remains available almost everywhere (usually class B/C misdemeanors)
and may be used for egregious or repeated violations or where the code specifies.

Request
Staff is looking for direction from the council regarding a possible implementation of civil fines for
certain code violations and the utilization of and Administrative Law Judge in these cases.
         "'"-&,~        ...i   r/f\,
               Cottonwood Heights
                   Cuy briu«m the Cdl'J"lll




              Appendix 5

         STAFF REPORT
Employee Appeals Board Appointment
             Jared Gerber
Meeting Requested:         Business Meeting ~      Work Session ~      Other □
Public Hearing
Needed?                    Yes ~ No □ Undetermined □
                           Denied D Appro           • ued □ .
CM Approval or Denial
                           CM Signature:


Background
Title 2.180 of the Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code outlines the requirement for an Employee
Appeal Board, in accordance with Utah State Code 10-3-1106. The appeal board consists "of one
individual selected by the city manager, with advice and consent of the city council, for purposes of
a specific appeal." As part of the code, the manager is allowed to keep a roster of qualified
individuals to pull from as needed.

There is no current appeal before us, however, there is no current list approved by the City Council
for the Appeal Board. State and Federal law requires us to provide a response to any appeal within
10 days of the filing of an appeal. In order to be prepared, staff has interacted with several people
qualified to act in this capacity and is asking for the council's advice an consent to create this list.

Request
Staff is requesting approval of a resolution approving a list of eligible people to use as an Employee
Appeals Board as necessary
            (' ~        I


   Cottonwood Heights
   Ci,y bmtYm 1hr rn11Jo111




   Appendix 6

STAFF REPORT
Curfew Discussion
   Jared Gerber
Meeting Requested:         Business Meeting D    Work Session [XI   Other D
Public Hearing
Needed?                    Yes □ No !XI Undetermined D

CM Approval or Denial      Denie_d □ Approved ~ YJ !i? ued □
                           CM Signature: ~      ',Y_1=:::.._{-


Background
There have been a number of recent violations of the City's curfew ordinance, particularly on the
Brighton High School property. This will be a discussion regarding the issues reported and possible
action to be taken by the City. In addition to curfew, violation of nuisance laws (especially noise)
are also part of the problem.

Title 10.6 of the Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code outlines the curfew ordinance:

10.._60.01_0J)efinitions

    1. "Care and custody" means the legal authority of a parent or guardian to supervise or
       otherwise be responsible for a minor, or the express authority given from such parent or
       legal guardian of a minor to a responsible adult to supervise or otherwise be responsible for
       the activities and care of the minor.

   2. "Emergency errand" means any errand or travel undertaken to directly and immediately
      seek to prevent or reduce the consequences of an illness or injury, criminal or potentially
      criminal activity, or fire or other accident and shall include the seeking of aid and
      assistance from medical or emergency response personnel or the purchase of
      medications.

   3. " Minor" means any unmarried, unemancipated person who is not a member of the armed
      forces of the United States and who is under the age of 16 years for the purposes of section
      10.60.020 of this chapter or who is under the age of 18 years for the purposes of section
      10.60.030 of this chapter.

   4. "Public places" means any place open to the public, whether publicly or privately owned,
      including but not limited to, parking lots and the interiors and exteriors of commercia l
      establishments such as restaurants , stores or places of entertainment.

10.60.0201 6:.Yea r-Old Curfew
It is unlawful for any minor under the age of 16 years to remain or loiter upon any of the sidewalks ,
streets, alleys or public places in the city, between the hours of 11 :00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. the
following morning.

1_0_.6.0.03018-Year-Old Curfew

It is unlawful for any minor under the age of 18 years to remain or loiter upon any of the sidewalks,
streets, alleys or public places in the city, between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m.

10.60.040 Paren.tc)J l-ia..bilit y

It is unlawful for any parent, guardian or other person having care and custody of any minor to allow
or permit the minor to violate the provisions of this chapter. Violation is a misdemeanor.

10.60.050 Business Liability

No person owning or operating a business as defined by this code of ordinances shall knowingly
permit any minor to remain on the premises of such business in violation of the provisions of this
section. Any such violation shall be a misdemeanor. This section, however, shall not apply to any
minor who is lawfully employed on the premises.

10.60.060 Exception s

The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any circumstances in which the minor is:

    1. Accompanied by a parent, guardian or other responsible adult having care and custody of
       such minor;

    2. Engaged in legitimate trade, employment or occupation which requires the minor's
       presence in or on the sidewalks, streets, alleys or public places while working at or traveling
       to or from such employment;

    3. Engaged in an emergency errand directed by the minor's parent, guardian or other
       responsible person having care and custody;

    4. In a motor vehicle engaged in a normal interstate travel beginning in, traveling through, or
       ending in the city;

    5. Attending or engaged in traveling between the minor's home or place of residence and a
       place where any religious, municipal, social, entertainment, sporting, political, library or
       school function is occurring; or

    6. Within the immediate vicinity of the minor's place of residence.

1.Q_,_60.070J;;nforcement

    1. Any minor who is in violation of the provisions of this chapter is subject to arrest and
       citation.

    2. Upon arrest, the minor shall be returned to the custody of the parent, guardian or other
       person charged with the care and custody of the minor.
3. It is unlawful for any parent, guardian or other person charged with the care and custody of
   a minor who is in violation of this chapter to refuse to appear and take custody of the minor
   within a reasonable time after being ordered to do so by a peace officer.

4. Any violation of this chapter is a misdemeanor.
              (~,

     Cottonwood Heights
     Cuy bm,-<m 1hr r,lfl)OIU




    Appendix 7

  STAFF REPORT
Flash Vote Discussion
    Jared Gerber
Meeting Requested:        Business Meeting D      Work Session IZl   Other D
Public Hearing
Needed?                   Yes □ No IZl Undetermined □

CM Approval or Denial



Background
The City Manager will lead a short discussion on the topics proposed for the remaining survey
topics, looking for a decision on which topic should be included in the next survey.

Request
Staff is requesting direction on the next survey topic to be generated.
  Cottonwood Heights
  Ciry b~t u-rm 1hr rtln)YIIIJ




  Appendix 8

STAFF REPORT
 Action Items
 Shane Topham
From:             Shane Topham
To:               Jared Gerber; Tiffany Janzen
Subject:          [EXT:]Legislation for September 2nd City Council Meeting
Date:             Tuesday, August 26, 2025 8:38:52 AM
Attachments:      WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2025-64 Approving PTOS Committee Appointment.pdf
                  WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2025-65 Approving Employee Appeal Board and Authorizing
                  Appointments.pdf
                  WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2025-66 Approving Arts Council UDAM Grant Agreement with State of
                  !.!tahJ2df
                  State Grant Contract /Cottonwood Heights Arts Council} APP-025883.pdf


Greetings-

Drafts of the following items of legislation scheduled for consideration at the September 2nd
city council business meeting are attached for your review and comment:

    1.    Resolution 2025-64. This resolution will approve the manager's appointment of
         Scott Simonsen to the city's Parks, Trails and Open Space advisory committee.

    2. Resolution 2025-65. Utah Code Ann. §10-3-1106 requires each Utah city to provide
       an appeal authority to hear appeals by city employees concerning certain specified
       employment actions by the city, with the appeal authority's number of members,
       procedure for conducting appeals, etc. prescribed by city ordinance. Cottonwood
       Heights Code §2.180.020(A) provides that the city's appeal board for any specific
       appeal shall consist of an individual selected by the city manager and approved by
       the city council. To facilitate the timely appointment of an appeal authority for each
       future employee appeal, by this resolution the council will approve a roster of
       qualified individuals to hear any such future appeals and will delegate to the
       manager the power to select from that pre-approved roster a specific individual to
       act as the city's appeal board for each such future appeal.

    3.    Resolution 2025-66. This resolution will approve the city's entry into an agreement
         whereunder the Utah Division of Arts and Museums will grant $3,800 to the city's
         Arts Council for its use during the current fiscal year. A copy of the proposed
         agreement also is attached.

Please contact me as soon as possible if there are any questions or concerns regarding the
attachments.

Best regards-

Shane


W M. SHANE ToPHAM I Attorney IToPHAM L EGAL

4930 Fairview Drive, Holladay, UT 84117
tel+801.808.6325 I Bio


CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: The content of this e-mail is confidential and proprietary and may be
attorney-client privileged. If you are not the intended recipient, please destroy it and notify:
w st@tophamlegal.com.
                                    ( ~\,

                          Cottonwood Heights
                          City b,mw11 1hr rml)Y/111




          CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING


                        Attachment 1
                     Resolution 2025-64
This resolution will approve the manager's appointment of Scott
 Simonsen to the city's Parks, Trails and Open Space advisory
                           committee.
                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                   RESOLUTION No. 2025-64


                A RESOLUTION CONSENTING TO AN APPOINTMENT TO THE
        COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS PARKS, TRAILS AND OPEN SPACE COMMITTEE

       WHEREAS, Part 7 of Chapter 2.140 of the COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE OF ORDINANCES
(the "Code"), comprising Code Sections 2.140.701 through 2.140.705, establishes the Parks, Trails
and Open Space Committee (the "Committee") as one of the advisory committees for the city of
Cottonwood Heights (the "City"); and

      WHEREAS, Code §2.140.703(B) provides that the Committee shall consist of up to 15
members, of which at least 13 are City residents, with a demonstrated interest, competence or
knowledge concerning parks, trails and open space; and

        WHEREAS, Code §2 .140.104 provides that members of the Committee shall be appointed
and removed by the city manager (the "Manager") with advice and consent of the city council (the
" CounciI''), and that the te1ms of office shall be three years so that the terms of approximately one-
third of the members expire each year; and

        WHEREAS, the Council met on 2 September 2025 to, among other things, (a) consider
approving the appointment of Scott Simonsen to the Committee, and (b) ratify and consent to the
current composition of membership of the Committee; and

       WHEREAS, the Manager has nominated the aforementioned person to serve on the
Committee commencing immediately and ending on 30 June 2028 or until their successor is
approved; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the City and its residents to give advice and to consent
to such appointment to the Committee as proposed by the Manager;

        NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights that the Council hereby gives advice and consents to the appointment of the
aforementioned person to the Committee, and hereby ratifies and gives advice and consents to the
status of the following individuals as all of the cmTent members of the Committee for the te1ms of
office set forth opposite each name or until their successors are approved:

        Name                           District                        Term Expires

        Ronna Cohen                    2                               30 June 2028
        Matthew Dominesey              2                               30 June 2028
        Melissa Fields                 4                               30 June 2028
        Aline Longstaff                2                               30 June 2028
        Scott Simonsen                 1                               30 June 2028

        Jennifer Cottam                 1                              30 June 2026
     Elise Graham                 4                             30 June 2026
     Ben Hill                     (CH Rec. Serv. Area)          NIA
     Brnce Jorgensen              4                             30 June 2026
     Michael Menssen              1                             30 June 2026
     Chris Owens                  2                             30 June 2026

     Brad Buswell                 2                             30 June 2027
     Zachety Geiger               2                             30 June 2027
     Jennifer Follstad Shah       4                             30 June 2027
     Chelsea Voss                 3                             30 June 2027

     This Resolution, assigned no. 2025-64, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

     PASSED AND APPROVED effective 2 September 2025.

ATTEST:                                   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By: _ _ __ _ _ __ __ _                    By:
                                                - - - -- - -- -- - - -- - -
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                    Mich aeIT. Weichers, Mayor


                                          VOTING:

                                          Michael T. Weichers          Yea _ Nay_
                                          Matt Holton                  Yea_Nay_
                                          Suzanne Hyland               Yea_Nay_
                                          Shawn E. Newell              Yea_Nay_
                                          Ellen Birrell                Yea _ Nay_

     DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 2nd day of September 2025.

     RECORDED this _ day of September 2025.




                                             2
                           Cottonwood Heights
                           City bau'(fll tlN r.tnp111




                         Attachment 2
                      Resolution 2025-65
 Utah Code Ann. §10-3-1106 requires each Utah city to provide
      an appeal authority to hear appeals by city employees
  concerning certain specified employment actions by the city,
 with the appeal authority's number of members, procedure for
      conducting appeals, etc. prescribed by city ordinance.
   Cottonwood Heights Code §2.180.020(A) provides that the
  city's appeal board for any specific appeal shall consist of an
individual selected by the city manager and approved by the city
    council. To facilitate the timely appointment of an appeal
authority for each future employee appeal, by this resolution the
council will approve a roster of qualified individuals to hear any
 such future appeals and will delegate to the manager the power
 to select from that pre-approved ro~ter a specific individual to
    act as the city's appeal board for each such future appeal.
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                  RESOLUTION No. 2025-65

                     A RESOLUTION APPROVING EMPLOYEE APPEAL
                       BOARD AND AUTHORIZING APPOINTMENTS

        WHEREAS, UTAH CODE ANN. §10-3-1106 requires each Utah city to provide an appeal
authority to hear appeals by city employees concerning ce11ain specified employment actions by
the city, with the appeal authority' s number of members, procedure for conducting appeals, etc.
prescribed by city ordinance; and

        WHEREAS, §2. l 80.020(A) of the COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE OF ORDINANCES (the
" Code") provides that the appeal board of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the " City") for any
specific employee appeal shall consist of a single individual selected by the city manager
("Manager" ) and approved by the city council (the "CounciI''); and

       WHEREAS, the Manager has detennined that each of attorneys J. Richard Cartan, Ryan
Loose, and Frank M. Nakamura (collectively, the "Roster") are qualified to serve as the City' s
appeal authority in any future employee appeals and has requested the Council to approve each of
such individuals to serve as the City's appeal authority in any future specific employee appeal; and

        WHEREAS, to facilitate the timely appointment of an appeal authority for each future
employee appeal, the Manager also has requested the Council to delegate to the Manager the power
to select from that among those on the Council's pre-approved Roster a specific individual to act
as the city's appeal board for each such future appeal as provided in Code §2.180.020 without
further auth01ization by the Council; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the City's residents to so act;

       NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights that the Council hereby (a) consents to the above appointments to the Roster effective
immediately, and (b) delegates to the Manager the power to select from among those on the Roster
a specific individual to act as the City's appeal board for each such future employee appeal as
provided in Code §2.180.020 without fu11her auth01ization by the Council.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2025-65, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

       PASSED AND APPROVED effective 2 September 2025.


ATTEST:                                       COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


B y : - - - -- - -- - - - -                   By:
                                                    - - - - - - - -- - - -- - -- -
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                        Mich ael T. Weichers, Mayor
                                   VOTING:

                                   Michael T. Weichers         Yea_Nay_
                                   Matt Holton                 Yea_Nay_
                                   Suzanne Hyland              Yea_Nay_
                                   Shawn E. Newell             Yea_Nay_
                                   Ellen Birrell               Yea_Nay_

DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 2nd day of September 2025.

RECORDED this_ day of September 2025.




                                      2
                          Cottonwood Heights
                          Ci ry bm,vm t/,r r,111111111




                        Attachment 3
                    Resolution - 2025-66
This resolution will approve the city's entry into an agreement
whereunder the Utah Division of Arts and Museums will grant
$3,800 to the city's Arts Council for its use during the current
                          fiscal year.
                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                   RESOLUTION No. 2025-66


            A RESOLUTION APPROVING AND ACCEPTING A GRANT FROM THE
               UTAH DIVISION OF ARTS AND MUSEUMS FOR FY 2025-26

        WHEREAS, section 2.140.401 of the COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE (the "Code")
establishes the "Cottonwood Heights Arts Council" (the "Arts Council") for the city of
Cottonwood Heights (the "City"); and

        WHEREAS, following application (the "Application") by the City on behalf of the Arts
Council, the Utah Division of Arts and Museums (the "State") awarded a $3,800 grant (the
"Grant") to the City for use during FY 2025-26 by the Arts Council in connection with the
project(s) specified in the Application; and

      WHEREAS, the City desires to approve and accept the Grant on behalf of the Arts
Council; and

       WHEREAS, the City's municipal council (the "Council") met in regular session on 2
September 2025 to consider, among other things, (a) approving and accepting the Grant as
proposed, and (b) authorizing the City to execute and deliver the grant agreement (the
"Agreement") required by the State before releasing the Grant funds to the Arts Council; and

       WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed the fo1m of the Agreement, a photocopy of which
is annexed hereto; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to approve and accept the Grant
and to authorize the City to execute and deliver the Agreement to the State as proposed;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights that (a) the Grant is hereby accepted and approved, (b) the City's mayor and recorder, and
(as necessary) any appropriate officer of the Arts Council, are authorized and directed to execute
and deliver the Agreement and any related documents and instruments on behalf of the City and
the Arts Council, and (c) any prior execution and delive1y of the Agreement by the mayor and
recorder is hereby ratified and confirmed.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2025-66, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 2nd day of September 2025.

ATTEST:                                        COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By:-- - - - - - - -- - - -                     By:--- - - - -- - -- - -- - -
  Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                       Michael T. Weichers, Mayor
                                   VOTING:

                                   Michael T. Weichers         Yea_Nay_
                                   Matt Holton                 Yea_Nay_
                                   Suzanne Hyland              Yea_Nay_
                                   Shawn E. Newell             Yea_Nay_
                                   Ellen Birrell               Yea_Nay_

DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 2nd day of September 2025.

RECORDED this _ day of September 2025.




                                      2
                                                            CONTRACT# 260485

                  STATE OF UTAH - CONTRACT AGREEMENT



1. PARTIES: This grant is between the following agency of the State of Utah:
   Department Name: Utah Dept of Cultural and Community Engagement_Agency Code: 710 Division Name: Arts and
   Museums, referred to as (STATE) , and the following GRANTEE:
      Cottonwood Hei hts Ci
                                       Ci                                                     LEGAL STATUS OF GRANTEE:

      2777 East Bengal Blvd                                                                   0     Sole Proprietor
      Cottonwood Heights, Utah 84121                                                          C8]   Non-Profit Corporation

                                                                                              0     For-Profit Corporation

      Contact Person: Ann Eatchel                                                             0     Partnership
      Phone Number: (801) 944-7040
      Email: aeatchel@ch.utah.gov                                                             0     Government Agency
      Federal Tax ID# 202154375
      Vendor# VC0000107970 Commodity Code #99999

2.    GENERAL PURPOSE OF GRANT: This grant is to be used as outlined in the approved FY26/27 SIMPLIFIED
      General Operating Support (GOS) Grant.

3. GRANT PERIOD: Effective Date: 07,101125 Termination Date: !06'/30126 unless terminated early or extended in
   accordance with the terms and conditions of this grant. Renewal options (if any) N/A. All payments under this grant
   will be completed within 90 days after the Termination Date.

4.    GRANT COSTS: GRANTEE will be paid a maximum of $3800 for costs authorized by this grant.

5. ATTACHMENT A: Division of Purchasing's Standard Terms and Conditions
   ATTACHMENT B: Scope of Work and Reporting Requirements
   ATTACHMENT C: Payment Schedule
   ATTACHMENT D: Utah Division of Arts & Museums Certification and Statement of Assurances

       Any conflicts between Attachment A and other Attachments will be resolved in favor of Attachment A.

6.     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED INTO THIS GRANT BY REFERENCE BUT NOT ATTACHED:

       a.    All other governmental laws, regulations, or actions applicable to the goods and/or services authorized by this
       grant. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties sign and cause this grant to be executed.




     Grantee's signature
                                                    812212025 _T
                                                     Date
                                                                    • Nalxl!ie Pe!RMm
                                                               - -=-======------ -....:::8~12=-=2~12:..::'..0~25
                                                                    Agency's signature                                Date




     Mike Weichers                                                  PROCESSED BY FINANCE
     Type or Print Name and Title                                   Division of Finance
      Attachment A: Standard Terms and Conditions for Grants (Nonprofit Organizations)

1. DEFINITIONS: The following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
     a. "Contract" means these terms and conditions, the Contract Signature Page(s), and all other
         attachments and documents incorporated by reference.
      b. "Contract Signature Page(s)" means the cover page(s) that the State and Grantee sign .
     c. "Grantee" means the individual or entity which is the recipient of grant money from the State.
         The term "Grantee" includes Grantee's agents, officers, employees, and partners.
     d. "Non-Public Information" means information that is deemed private, protected, controlled, or
         exempt from disclosure under the Government Records Access and Management Act
         (GRAMA)or as non-public under other applicable state and federal laws. Non-public
         information includes those records the State determines are protected after having properly
         received a written claim of business confidentiality as described in Utah Code § 638-2-309.
         The State reserves the right to identify additional information that must be kept non-public
         under federal and state laws.
      e. "State" means the State of Utah Department, Division, Office, Bureau, Agency, or other state
         entity identified on the Contract Signature Page(s).
      f. "Grant Money" means money provided by the State to a Grantee.
      g. "SubGrantees" means persons or entities under the direct or indirect control or responsibility
         of the Grantee, including , but not limited to, Grantee's agents, consultants, employees,
         authorized resellers, or anyone else for whom the Grantee may be liable at any tier, including
         a person or entity providing or performing this Contract, including the Grantee's
         manufacturers, distributors, and suppliers.

2. GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE: This Contract shall be governed by the laws, rules, and regulations
   of the State. Any action or proceeding arising from this Contract shall be brought in a court of
   competent jurisdiction in the State. Venue shall be in Salt Lake City, in the Third Judicial District Court
   for Salt Lake County.


3. LAWS AND REGULATIONS: At all times during this Contract, Grantee and all acts performed under
   this Contract will comply with all applicable federal and state constitutions, laws, rules, codes, orders,
   and regulations, including applicable licensure and certification requirements.

4. REQUIRED ACCOUNTING: Grantee agrees that it shall provide to the State accounting for all Grant
   Money received by the Grantee as required by the terms of the grant or, if not expressly provided , the
   following accounting, at least annually and no later than 60 days after all of the Grant Money is spent:
        a. a written description and an itemized report detailing the expenditure of the Grant Money or the
           intended expenditure of any Grant Money that has not been spent; and
        b. a final written itemized report when all the Grant Money is spent.
        c. NOTE: If the Grantee is a non-profit corporation , Grantee shall make annual disclosures
           pursuant to the requirements of Utah Code§ 51-2a-201.5.

5. RECORDS ADMINISTRATION: Grantee shall maintain or supervise the maintenance of all records,
   receipts and any other documentation necessary to properly account for payments made by the State
   to Grantee under this Contract, Grantee's performance of the Contract terms and milestones, and
   outcomes reported to the State by the Grantee. These records shall be retained by Grantee for at
   least six (6) years after final payment, or until all audits initiated within the six (6) years have been
   completed, whichever is later. Grantee agrees to allow, at no additional cost, State and federal
   auditors, State Entity staff, and/or a party hired by the State access to all records necessary to
   account for all Grant Money received by Grantee as a result of this contract and to verify that the
   Grantee's use of the Grant Money is appropriate and has been properly reported.
6. CONFLICT OF INTEREST: All grant applications were reviewed following a conflict of interest policy
   that was reviewed by the Utah Arts & Museums Boards. Grant application reviews are also subject to
   the Department of Utah Public Officers' and Ethics Act, Utah Code, § 67-16.

7. INDEPENDENT GRANTEE: Grantee and SubGrantees, in the performance of this Contract, shall act
   in an independent capacity and not as officers or employees or agents of the State.

8. INDEMNITY: Both parties to this agreement are governmental entities as defined in the Utah
   Governmental Immunity Act (Utah Code Ann. 63G-7-101 et. seq.). Nothing in this Contract shall be
   construed as a waiver by either or both parties of any rights , limits, protections or defenses provided
   by the Act. Nor shall this Contract be construed, with respect to third parties , as a waiver of any
   governmental immunity to which a party to this Contract is otherwise entitled. Subject to and
   consistent with the Act, each party will be responsible for its own actions or negligence and will
   defend against any claims or lawsuit brought against it. There are no indemnity obligations between
   these parties.

9. EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES: Grantee agrees to abide by federal and state employment laws,
   including: (i)Title VI and VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000e) which prohibits
   discrimination against any employee or applicant for employment or any applicant or recipient of
   services, on the basis of race, religion, color, or national origin ; (ii) Executive Order No. 11246, as
   amended, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex; (iii) 45 CFR 90 which prohibits
   discrimination on the basis of age ; (iv) Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, or the Americans
   with Disabilities Act of 1990 which prohibits discrimination on the basis of disabilities; and (v) Utah's
   Executive Order, dated December 13, 2006, which prohibits unlawful harassment in the work place.
   Grantee further agrees to abide by any other laws, regulations, or orders that prohibit the
   discrimination of any kind by any of Grantee's employees.

10. AMENDMENTS: This Contract may only be amended by the mutual written agreement of the parties,
    which amendment will be attached to this Contract. Automatic renewals will not apply to this Contract
    even if listed elsewhere in this Contract.


11 . INSURANCE: Grantee shall at all times during the term of this Contract, without interruption, carry
     and maintain insurance from an insurance company authorized to do business in Utah. Grantee shall
     maintain insurance with industry standards as is reasonably appropriate for the type of events,
     programs and operations grantee conducts.


12. NONAPPROPRIATION OF FUNDS, REDUCTION OF FUNDS, OR CHANGES IN LAW: Upon thirty
    (30) days written notice delivered to the Grantee, this Contract may be terminated in whole or in part
    at the sole discretion of the State, if the State reasonably determines that: (i) a change in Federal or
    State legislation or applicable laws materially affects the ability of either party to perform under the
    terms of this Contract; or (ii) that a change in available funds affects the State's ability to pay under
    this Contract. A change of available funds as used in this paragraph, includes, but is not limited to, a
    change in Federal or State funding, whether as a result of a legislative act or by order of the President
   ·or the Governor.

13. PROHIBITED DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES: Grantee understands that, under Utah Code 67-27,
    no portion of this grant may be used to support activities that promote discriminatory practices as
    defined in Utah Code 538-1-11 8.

14. DISCLOSURE OF OTHER STATE FUNDS: The Grantee agrees to disclose a comprehensive list of
    all state funds received, including funds received through direct awards, competitive grants, pass-
    throughs, partnerships, memorandums of understanding, etc.

15. LEGISLATIVE APPROPRIATION : Disbursement of grant funds is subject to legislative appropriation.
    Appropriations, including grant funds, are subject to legislative action on a year-to-year basis.
16. RECOUPMENT OF FUNDS: Per State law (Utah Code 63G-6b-201 (4)(e), Grantee consents to
    follow-up audits and acknowledges that grant funds are subject to clawback if an audit shows that the
    grant funds were inappropriately used. If state audit findings determine that any funds expended by
    the Grantee violate the terms of this Agreement, the Grantee shall provide funds to the state sufficient
    to meet such repayment request(s). The Grantee assumes responsibility for ensuring compliance of
    all subgrantees. The Grantee is to be held responsible for the repayment of funds expended by any
    subgrantees which violates the terms of this Agreement. If the Grantee is unwilling or unable to repay
    the funds, the repayment request amount will become a past due obligation of the Grantee to the
    State and may be collected as such. See Utah Code 63G-6b-201 (4)(e) & (5).

17. PUBLIC INFORMATION: Grantee agrees that this Contract and invoices will be public documents,
    and may be available for distribution in accordance with the Utah Government Records Access and
    Management Act (GRAMA). Grantee gives the State express permission to make copies of this
    Contract, related documents, and invoices in accordance with GRAMA. Except for sections identified
    in writing by Grantee and expressly approved by the Utah Division of Purchasing and General
    Services, all of which must be in accordance with GRAMA, Grantee also agrees that the Grantee's
    Proposal to the Solicitation will be a public document, and copies may be given to the public as
    permitted under GRAMA. The State is not obligated to inform Grantee of any GRAMA requests for
    disclosure of this Contract, related documents, or invoices.

       a. Grantee may designate certain business information as protected under GRAMA pursuant to
          Utah Code Section 63G-2-305 and 63G-2-309. It is Grantee's sole responsibility to comply
          with the requirements of GRAMA as it relates to information regarding trade secrets and
          information that should be protected under business confidentiality.

18. REVIEWS: The State reserves the right to perform reviews, and/or comment upon the Grantee's use
    of the funds set forth in this Contract. Such reviews do not waive the requirement of Grantee to meet
    all of the terms and conditions of this Contract.

19. ASSIGNMENT: Grantee may not assign, sell, transfer, subcontract or sublet rights, or delegate any
    right or obligation under this Contract, in whole or in part, without the prior written approval of the
    State.

20. OWNERSHIP IN INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY: The State and Grantee each recognizes that each
    has no right, title, interest, proprietary or otherwise in the intellectual property owned or licensed by
    the other, unless otherwise agreed upon by the parties in writing.

21. ATTORNEY'S FEES: In the event of any judicial action to enforce rights under this Contract, the
    prevailing party shall be entitled its costs and expenses, including reasonable attorney's fees,
    incurred in connection with such action.

22. DISPUTE RESOLUTION: Prior to either party filing a judicial proceeding, the parties agree to
    participate in the mediation of any dispute. The State, after consultation with the Grantee, may
    appoint an expert or panel of experts to assist in the resolution of a dispute. If the State appoints such
    an expert or panel, State and Grantee agree to cooperate in good faith in providing information and
    documents to the expert or panel in an effort to resolve the dispute.

23. FORCE MAJEURE: Neither party to this Contract will be held responsible for delay or default cause
    by but not limited to earthquake, fire, riot, pandemic, and/or war which is beyond the party's
    reasonable control.

24. ENTIRE AGREEMENT: This Contract constitutes the entire agreement between the parties and
    supersedes any and all other prior and contemporaneous agreements and understandings between
    the parties, whether oral or written.
25. GOVERNMENTAL IMMUNITY; CONFLICT IN TERMS : The State is entitled to broad immunity under
    the Utah Governmental Immunity Act (Utah Code Ann . 63G-7-101 et. seq.) and certain state and
    federal constitutional provisions. Nothing in this Contract shall be construed as a waiver by the State
    of any rights, limits, protections, or defenses under the Act or any applicable rule, regulation, or
    constitutional provision. Any conflict between the terms of this Contract and any applicable statute,
    rule, regulation, or constitutional provision shall be resolved in favor of the applicable statute, rule,
    regulation, or constitutional provision.
                                             STATE OF UTAH
                                              Attachment B
Organization: Cottonwood Heights Arts Council

Attachment B: Scope of Work and Reporting Requirements

This grant is to be used for expenses as outlined in the FY26/27 SIMPLIFIED General Operating Support
(GOS) Grant application . The Utah Division of Arts & Museums (UA&M) is a state agency involved in
public funding for arts and museums. As a public entity, it reserves the right to make final decisions on
the use of public funds for projects, programs, acquisitions, commissions, or other activities deemed
appropriate by the Division and/or Board. Funding from the State of Utah may not be used for anyth ing
that would be considered objectionable or obscene under Utah Code Section 32B-1-504.

UA&M reserves the right to revoke awarded public funds (current, multi-year, and/or future) as deemed
necessary. The revocation of any public funds will be taken under consideration by the appropriate state
board.

As per state law, all grants from the state of Utah must provide reporting of performance metrics.

Unless otherwise notified in writing, a final report must be submitted by June 1, 2026, and all grant funds
must be spent by June 30, 2026. Reports will be submitted through the Community Grants Portal.



                                            STATE OF UTAH
                                             Attachment C


Attachment C: Payment Schedule tJuly 1, 2025 - June 30, 2026)

Pending availability of state funds, Cottonwood Heights Arts Council will receive $3800 as follows:

All grants will be paid in two payments unless the intent language provides a different disbursement
schedule, as outlined in UCA 63G-6b-301 (2).



First Payment (after Juty 1, 2025)
Payment of $3420 will be paid upon receipt of finalized contract from the Utah State Division of Finance.



Second Payment (April 1 - June 30. 2026)
Payment of $380 will be paid upon receipt of a final report that demonstrates the project/program has been
completed, an itemized budget, and a narrative that details how the funds have been spent by the
organization.

PAYMENT: The acceptance by Grantee of final payment, without a written protest filed with the State
within ten (10) business days of receipt of final payment, shall release the State from all claims and all
liability to the Grantee. The State's payment shall not be deemed an acceptance of the Services and is
without prejudice to any and all claims that the State may have against Grantee. Funding amount is subject
to change based upon actions of the Utah State Legislature.
                                         STATE OF UTAH
                                        (Nonprofit Version)
                         ATTACHMENT D: UTAH DIVISION OF ARTS & MUSEUMS

                           CERTIFICATION AND STATEMENT OF ASSURANCES

The Utah Division of Arts & Museums (UA&M) is a state agency involved in public funding for arts and
museums. The Division and its governing board reserve sole discretion to award funds for projects ,
programs, acquisitions, commissions, or other activities. The Division's award of funds to a recipient for
a project does not guarantee funding for that recipient for any future project. Funding levels are
contingent on many factors, including available resources and number of applications. The Division
reserves the right to revoke or recapture all or part of a recipient's awarded funds as deemed
necessary in the Division's sole discretion and as permitted by applicable law. Funding from the State
of Utah may not be used for anything that would be considered objectionable or obscene under Utah
Code Section 328-1-504.

UA&M reserves the right to revoke awarded public funds (current, multi-year, and/or future) as deemed
necessary. The revocation of any public funds will be taken under consideration by the appropriate state
board.

The grantee certifies, represents and warrants to the Utah Division of Arts & Museums (hereinafter referred to
as Utah Arts & Museums) that it meets all eligibility requirements set forth by Utah Arts & Museums, including:

    1. The information contained herein and in all attachments and supporting material is true and correct; the
       filing of the application has been duly authorized by the governing body of the grantee, and the
       undersigned has authority to execute this application on behalf of the Grantee.


   2. The grantee accepts in advance any grant awarded by Utah Arts & Museums, agreeing: a) that any
      funds received as a result of the application will be expended solely for the described programs, in
      accordance with the State of Utah Terms and Conditions; b) to such other restrictions, conditions, and
      changes as Utah Arts & Museums may impose, unless the grantee objects within 30 days of mailing
      the award letter setting forth the terms of the grant in writing.


   3. The grant cannot be used to pay for anything that is specified against in the grant guidelines or
      transferred without prior written approval of Utah Arts & Museums.


   4. The financial accounts shall be subject to reporting and/or audit by appropriate agencies of the State of
      Utah and/or the Federal Government. The Grantee will be responsible for the safekeeping and
      identification of records maintained to account for funds awarded herein. Said records must be kept in
      the Grantee's files for a period of six years after completion of the project and submission of the final
      expenditure report.


   5. Recipient agrees to acknowledge the Utah Division of Arts & Museums in writing and orally, including
      acknowledging the gift as follows:

           a. Grantees must use the Utah Arts & Museums logo. Up to date electronic versions of the logos
              can be found on the website, artsandmuseums.utah.gov/logos/. Please note that our current
              UAM logo has changed from red to purple.


           b. It is recommended, but not required to send copies of programs or other printed material
              acknowledging Utah Arts and Museums to the grants manager at 3760 South Highland Drive,
              Millcreek, Utah 84106 or uamgrants@utah .gov.
       c.   It is acceptable to provide tickets to any non-fundraising event (that has a monetary value of $50
            or less) without charge and within reason to UA&M staff or board members in order for UA&M
            associates to review and evaluate grantee's organization and programs. Grantees may request
            site visits by UA&M staff during the year.

6. All grantees will promote their events on www.nowplayingutah.com (NPU) . This arts and cultural
   calendar was created to benefit Utah's arts and cultural community and individuals interested in
   attending arts and cultural events. Grantees shall post their event information to NPU in a timely
   manner and shall promote the NPU website among its constituents , patrons, audiences , etc.
   Exceptions are made for K-12 schools and organizations providing services to at-risk individuals.


7. It is mutually agreed that all parties shall comply with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964; Fair Labor
   Standards under Section 5U) of the National Foundation on the Arts and Humanities Act of 1965;
   Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973; and Title IX.


8. The Grant Period will be effective July 1, 2025 to June 30, 2026. These dates will be considered the
   formal payment schedule.


9. The Grantee hereby assures and certifies that it will report on the expenditure of public funds by
   completing a Utah Arts & Museums Final Report, which Utah Arts & Museums shall provide to Grantee.


10. In agreement with federal regulations, the signed contract is an attestation that no member of the
    organization's leadership, board or key financial employees have been debarred or suspended prior to
    the award payment of federal funds. Debarred and suspended means that due to actions of a person or
    organization , that person or organization has been determined to be ineligible to receive federal funds
    for a determined amount of time. The suspension and debarment process protects the federa l
    government from fraud, waste and abuse by using a number of tools to avoid doing business with non-
    responsible contractors.


11. The Grantee hereby assures and certifies that it will comply w ith state and federal statutes, regulations,
    policies, guidelines, and requirements for nonprofit entities. Specifically, UCA 51-2a-102(6)(f) and 51-
    2a-201.5 require that nonprofit organizations annually disclose the amount of pass through or grant
    money received from state , federal , and local governments each fiscal year. Additional reporting is
    required by law to the State Auditor and will vary, depending on the amount of combined federal, state
    and local funding received from all sources during a nonprofit organization's fiscal year.
I certify that Cottonwood Heights Arts Council met or exceeded or anticipates meeting or exceeding the
following dollar threshold in combined revenues of federal pass-through, state or local money for fiscal year
2026.

                                    more than $25,000 but less than $100,000

 NA
                                    more than $100,000 but less than $350,000

 NA

                                    more than $350,000 but less than $1,000,000

 NA

                                    more than $1,000,000

 NA

                                     I certify that Cottonwood Heights Arts Council will not or
                                    does not expect to meet or exceed the $25,000 threshold
                                    in combined revenues of federal pass-through, state or
 MW                                 local money for fiscal year 2026.




Signature:




Grantee's signature


Date of Application: 8/12/2025 12:46:28 PM (Last Modified Date)
Application #: APP-025883 (Letter of Agreement)
