COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING AGENDA
September 3, 2025


Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission will convene on Wednesday,
September 3, 2025, at Cottonwood Heights City Hall (2277 E. Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121) for
its Work Session and Business Session meetings.

   1. Work Session – 5:00 p.m. – City Council Work Room
   2. Business Session – 6:00 p.m. – City Council Chambers

Both sessions will also be broadcast electronically on the city’s YouTube channel at
https://www.youtube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams.
Please see the reverse side of this agenda for instructions on how to make public comment.

5:00 p.m. Work Session
       1.0 Review Business Session Agenda
       The commission will review and discuss agenda items.

       2.0 Adjourn

6:00 p.m. Business Session
       1.0 Welcome and Acknowledgements
              1.1 Ex parte communications or conflicts of interest to disclose

       2.0 General Public Comment
       This is an opportunity for individuals to make general public comments that do not relate to any projects
       scheduled for public hearing under the “Business Items” section of this agenda. Please see the Public
       Comment Policy on the reverse side of this agenda for more information.

       3.0 Consent Agenda
              4.1 Approval of August 6, 2025 Planning Commission Minutes

       4.0 Adjourn
       Next Planning Commission Meeting: October 1, 2025
Public Comment
Individuals may provide public comment verbally or via writing.

Verbal comments are accepted in person at the 6:00 p.m. Business Session, but not at the 5:00 p.m. Work
Session. At the Business Session, public comment may be given during two intervals:
   1. General Public Comment Period – An opportunity for general comments not relating to specific projects on
       the meeting agenda.
   2. Specific Project Public Hearings – An opportunity for comments relating to specific projects on the meeting
       agenda which were noticed as public hearings.

Please note that verbal comments must be provided by attending the meetings in-person. Verbal comments
cannot be provided via the electronic broadcast of planning commission meetings on the city’s YouTube channel.

Verbal comment periods are an opportunity for individuals to share comments as they see fit but are not an
opportunity for “question and answer” dialogue. Questions should be directed to city staff at
planning@ch.utah.gov. Verbal comments provided during the public comment period will be limited to three
minutes per individual, or five minutes per a spokesperson who has been asked by a group that is present to
summarize their concerns.

Alternatively, written comments may be submitted to staff via email at planning@ch.utah.gov. For written
comments to be entered into the record and distributed to the planning commission prior to the meeting, they
must be submitted to staff by 12:00 p.m. MST on Tuesday, September 2, 2025, the day prior to the meeting.
Comments received after this deadline will be distributed to the planning commission after the meeting.

Meeting Procedures
Items will generally be considered in the following order: 1. Chair introduction of item, 2. Staff presentation, 3.
Applicant presentation, if applicable, 4. Chair opens public hearing, if applicable, 5. Chair closes public hearing, if
applicable, 6. Planning commission deliberation, 7. Planning commission motion and vote on item.

Applications may be tabled if additional information is needed in order to act on the item; or if the planning
commission feels there are unresolved issues that may need further attention before the commission is ready
to make a motion. No agenda item will begin after 9:00 pm without a unanimous vote of the commission. The
commission may carry over agenda items, scheduled late in the evening and not heard, to the next regularly
scheduled meeting.

Notice of Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, individuals needing special accommodations or
assistance during this meeting shall notify the City Recorder at (801) 944-7015 at least 24 hours prior to the
meeting. TDD number is (801) 270-2425 or call Relay Utah at #711.

Confirmation of Public Notice
On Friday, August 29, 2025, a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the front foyer
of the Cottonwood Heights City Offices. The agenda was also posted on the City’s website at
www.cottonwoodheights.utah.gov and the Utah public notice website at http://pmn.utah.gov.

DATED THIS 29th DAY OF AUGUST, ATTEST: TIFFANY JANZEN, CITY RECORDER
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
TOMORROW
GENERAL PLAN – 2025
     ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
     MAYOR & CITY COUNCIL                      CITY STAFF                                 PROJECT FUNDING
     Mike Weichers – Mayor                     Jim Spung – Community and Economic
     Matt Holton – District 1                  Development Director
     Suzanne Hyland – District 2               Maverick Yeh – Planner III
     Shawn Newell – District 3
     Ellen Birrell – District 4                Mike Johnson – Former Community and
                                               Economic Development Director
                                               Ian Harris – Former Planner III            The Cottonwood Heights Tomorrow General Plan – 2025
     PLANNING COMMISSION                                                                  was completed as a joint planning effort by the City of
                                                                                          Cottonwood Heights and the Wasatch Front Regional
     Mike Shelton – District 1                 PLANNING TEAM                              Council (WFRC). The City was awarded a matching grant
     Garry Barnes – District 2                                                            from the WFRC Transportation and Land Use Connection
                                               LANDMARK DESIGN
     Dan Mills – District 3                                                               (TLC) Program.

     Sean Steinman (Vice Chair) – District 4   Sam Taylor, PLA, ASLA – Principle-in-
                                               Charge and President
     Mike Smith – District 1 (at large)
                                               Mark Vlasic, PLA, AICP, ASLA – Principle
     Rusty Lugo – District 2 (at large)
                                               Emeritus and Project Manager
     Lucy Anderson (Chair) – District 3 (at
                                               Aubrey Larsen – Project Planner
     large)
                                               Corinne Tobler – Project Planner
     Dan Poulson – District 4 (at large)

                                               TOWNSHIP + RANGE
                                               Tim Sullivan – Principle Planner


                                               LRB PUBLIC FINANCE ADVISORS
                                               Fred Philpot – Vice President and COO


                                               VODA LANDSCAPE + PLANNING
                                               Mark Morris, PLA, LEED AP, ASLA – Code
                                               Development




ii   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PENDING




                    COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT   iii
iv   This page intentionally left blank
CHAPTER 1
OVERVIEW & INTRO
Municipalities in Utah are required by the Utah Land Use,                 Utah requires four elements in a general plan: (1) land use, (2)
Development, and Management Act (LUDMA) to prepare and adopt              transportation and circulation, (3) moderate income housing,
a comprehensive, general plan that addresses present and future           and (4) water use and preservation. The general plan serves as
needs and future growth and development directions. The general           an advisory document to help guide future growth and land use
plan not only helps guide future development, it also provides for        decisions, indicating the general location and type of land uses and
orderly expansion of infrastructure, utilities and public services. The   transportation facilities and summarizing general guidelines for
act further authorizes and governs land use and zoning regulations,       future development.
establishes mandatory requirements that local governments
must follow, and provides the legal framework for making zoning
decisions, enacting ordinances, and implementing plans. Although
local governments have limited discretion to make land use
decisions, LUDMA is ultimately the controlling legislation upon
which decisions can be based. Local governments must comply with
LUDMA requirements and the codes and ordinances adopted under
its authority.




                                                                                               DRAFT CHAPTER 1: OVERVIEW & INTRO                 1
                                                            A New
                                                            General
                                                            Plan
                                                            The Cottonwood Heights General Plan has
                                                            not been updated since its original version,
                                                            created when the City was incorporated in
                                                            2005. The initial plan successfully focused on
                                                            key priorities and goals that were critical for
                                                            a new municipality, many of which have been
                                                            achieved. As the City continues to grow, it now
                                                            faces new opportunities and challenges brought
                                                            on by increased development both locally
                                                            and regionally. This growth has created the
                                                            need to preserve affordable housing and find
                                                            innovative transportation solutions to manage
                                                            through-traffic from surrounding areas. To build
                                                            on the progress made so far and to guide the
                                                            City forward, this new General Plan reflects the
                                                            evolving needs of the City and a vision for a
                                                            thriving future.




2   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
ORGANIZATION OF THE PLAN
Cottonwood Heights Tomorrow – General Plan 2025 looks at growth approximately 20 years out, with a focus on the next ten years. It
provides the vision and focus needed to anticipate and adjust to changing demands and desires. The plan is organized into the following
nine chapters:


 Chapter 1: Overview & Introduction summarizes the history             Chapter 6: Parks & Recreation examines the green assets of
  and evolution of the City, explains the purpose of the General         the City and the networks that can or could potentially connect
  Plan, provides a demographic snapshot of the City, describes           them. It also describes the natural resources and community
  the community engagement process, and concludes with an                services that support the livability of the community, and is
  overview of the community vision and future community goals            aligned with the Parks and Recreation Master Plan that was
  reflected through public input.                                        adopted in early 2021.

 Chapter 2: Land Use describes the future land use vision of           Chapter 7: Water Use and Preservation explores the
  the City, and an updated future land use map with descriptions         relationship between water and land use as proposed in Chapter
  of recommended land use categories. This chapter discusses             2. It identifies measures that will help to ensure that water is
  general guidelines for future development and improvements.            used and conserved wisely and sustainably for current and
                                                                         future generations.
 Chapter 3: Housing addresses future housing needs and
  requirements, including strategies for meeting State mandated         Chapter 8: Sustainability describes the City’s commitment to
  affordability targets.                                                 creating a sustainable and resilient community. It summarizes
                                                                         and supports the Interlocal Sustainability Action Plan (2019), a
 Chapter 4: Transportation outlines specific actions and goals
                                                                         joint planning effort undertaken with the neighboring cities of
  for meeting current and future transportation demands. The
                                                                         Holladay, and Millcreek.
  chapter includes a concept for addressing local transportation
  needs and mitigating the impacts of regional that is aligned with
  the land use, housing and economic goals of the City.

 Chapter 5: Economic Development discusses the current
  economic conditions in the City and opportunities to increase
  financial diversity and resiliency.




                                                                                            DRAFT CHAPTER 1: OVERVIEW & INTRO               3
    Community                                                                              THE “OLD MILL”
                                                                                           The Deseret Paper Mill, now known as the “Old

    Overview                                                                               Mill”, is the most recognizable structure that
                                                                                           remains from the early settlement era, even
                                                                                           though it is now only a shell of the original
                                                                                           structure. Located along Big Cottonwood Creek

    HISTORY                                                                                about a mile below the mouth of the canyon,
                                                                                           the mill was built in 1861 to fabricate paper
                                                                                           for printing the Deseret News in Salt Lake
    The dramatic setting that is now the site of Cottonwood Heights was inhabited by       City. The mill was the pride of the community
    Ute and Shoshone Native American tribes for generations prior to the movement          and operated for over three decades until it
    of European trappers, traders, explorers and settlers into the area in the early       was damaged by a fire in 1893, rendering the
    to mid-1800s. Even though the City wasn’t incorporated until January 2005, its         building unusable.
    roots extend back to the first pioneer settlers in the valley. Following the early
    settlement of Salt Lake City, additional communities were usually settled near
    natural resources such as water, timber, and rich soil. The area around Little
    Cottonwood Creek became a prime location for new settlement due to the
    perennial water source, the abundance of land suitable for farming, and the
    potential for irrigation. Settlement was initially organized as loosely clustered
    farms in small settlements, with the first recorded plan for the area illustrating a
    series of irregularly-shaped lots strung together along creek bottomlands.

    The original settlement of Butler – also known as Butlerville - was located on a
    large alluvial field that covers much of the eastern portions of the City, a remnant
    shore of the ancient Lake Bonneville that filled the Salt Lake Valley centuries ago.
    Since access to water was critical to the development of an area, the dry and
    desolate flatlands of the bluff were difficult to settle, earning the area the name
    “Poverty Flats.” Water was eventually secured from the mouth of Big Cottonwood
    Creek, which allowed the area to be more established with farms and orchards
    over time. The area eventually became known for its fruit orchards and feed crops,
    and later for poultry and mink farms.




4   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
Big Cottonwood Canyon was also an important determinant for                    Today the City is characterized by lower-density single-family
settling this area, as it became one of the main sources of logs               houses and neighborhoods, with a range of businesses and services
and lumber for the homes of the pioneers in the Salt Lake Valley.              concentrated in the lower-lying areas of Fort Union Boulevard
As a result, the flatter lands near the mouth of the canyon became             and Big Cottonwood Creek. The Cottonwood canyons became
an overnight stopping point for lumber wagons and later for                    flourishing recreation draws during the same period, offering
workers hauling granite out of Little Cottonwood Canyon for the                some of the best winter sport opportunities in the world. The 2002
construction of prominent buildings in the region. Millions of dollars         Winter Olympics greatly increased the visibility and image of Utah’s
in gold, lead and silver were also extracted from these canyons and            Wasatch Mountains, which by default changed the image and
the surrounding mountains, although the rush was short-lived.                  tenor of the City, and leading it to become a premier location for
                                                                               corporate office headquarters in the southeastern portion of the
The community grew slowly and steadily in the early years of
                                                                               Salt Lake Valley, offering three major office parks as evidence.
settlement, yet by the 1960’s residential subdivisions began to
replace much of the agricultural land, a pattern that changed the
area from a farming center into a suburban bedroom community.




Some of the landmarks and stories that have helped shape Cottonwood Heights.


                                                                                                    DRAFT CHAPTER 1: OVERVIEW & INTRO                 5
    REGIONAL                                      Map 1.1 – Regional Context


    AND LOCAL
    CONTEXT
    Cottonwood Heights encompasses an area
    of 6.8 square miles in the southeastern
    edge of Salt Lake County. It extends
    from the east bench of the Salt Lake
    Valley westward toward the valley floor,
    meeting the adjoining cities of Midvale
    to the west, Holladay and Murray to the
    north, and Sandy to the south. The City
    is overshadowed by a high ridge that
    separates the valleys of Big and Little
    Cottonwood Creeks, which emanate from
    steep canyons deeply incised into the
    granite bedrock of the Wasatch Mountains.

    State Route 190 and State Route 210
    run near the eastern edge of the City,
    providing access to the canyons. Interstate
    215 runs along the northern border of the
    City, providing access to Salt Lake Valley
    destinations and the greater region beyond.
    Located in the Canyons School District, the
    City is home to Brighton High School and
    Butler Middle School.




6   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
Cottonwood Heights is an uncommon community with a                        The City is distinguished by its attractive location, beautiful valley
spectacular setting. Nearby trails, recreation areas, campgrounds         and mountain views, a thriving business climate and a close-knit
and ski resorts in the Wasatch Mountains and the Cottonwood               community of residents who value the local lifestyle and place they
Canyons have become regional and international attractions, due           call home. Not surprisingly, Cottonwood Heights is known as “The
in large part to improved regional roadway access. Residents can          City Between the Canyons”, an apt moniker for an evolving city
easily access the nearby Cottonwood Canyon ski areas in a matter          within a remarkable setting.
of minutes, and Salt Lake Valley destinations and events in a similar
timeframe.



RELATED PLANNING EFFORTS
Several recent planning efforts, policies, and resolutions have been completed in recent years that impact the direction and vision of this
general plan. Each plan in the list that follows was reviewed and analyzed in order to ensure this general plan is aligned with the ideas and
planning directions contained in each document.

 Cottonwood Heights Form-based Code (ongoing)                             Cottonwood Heights Medium Income Housing Update (2021)

 East Jordan Canal Trail Feasibility Study (2024)                         Cottonwood Heights Storm Water Master Plan (2020)

 Resolution Adopting Principles and Policies for the Establishment        Cottonwood Heights Bonneville Shoreline Trail - Trailhead and
  of the Future Boundary Between Cottonwood Heights and Sandy               Access Plan (2020)
  (2024)
                                                                           Wasatch Boulevard Master Plan (2019)
 Cottonwood Heights Transportation Master Plan (2023)
                                                                           Cottonwood Heights Affordable Housing Report (2019)
 Mid-Valley Active Transportation Plan – Final Report (2022)
                                                                           Cottonwood Heights Bike and Trails Master Plan (2019)
 Imagine Our Town Center / Cottonwood Heights Town Center
                                                                           Interlocal Sustainability Action Plan (2019)
  Master Plan (2024)
                                                                           Cottonwood Heights Boulevard Gravel Pit Area Master Plan
 Cottonwood Heights Economic Resiliency Plan (2022)
                                                                            (2016)
 Cottonwood Heights Medium Income Housing Update (2022)
                                                                           Fort Union Area Master Plan (2015)
 Cottonwood Heights Parks, Trails and Open Space Master Plan
  (2022)


                                                                                                DRAFT CHAPTER 1: OVERVIEW & INTRO                  7
    Community                                                          POPULATION & PROJECTIONS
                                                                       Considering current housing development policies, the population

    Profile                                                            of Cottonwood Heights is projected to grow by almost 25 percent
                                                                       between 2024 and 2050, which is less than the 31 percent growth
                                                                       rate projected for Salt Lake County. Cottonwood Heights is
                                                                       anticipated to grow from 33,594 residents to 41,878 by 2050, while

    POPULATION &                                                       Salt Lake County is projected to grow from 1,223,914 to 1,563,562.
                                                                       Similarly, the number of households in Cottonwood Heights
    DEMOGRAPHIC                                                        is projected to experience growth, potentially reaching more
                                                                       than 18,000 households by 2050, from a current stock of 13,286
    OVERVIEW                                                           households. This represents a more modest rate of growth than
                                                                       is anticipated to occur throughout the County, which is projected
                                                                       to see a 47 percent increase in households between 2020 and
    Cottonwood Heights is a city of 33,000, with a median age of
                                                                       2050. This means that Cottonwood Heights will likely experience
    39.1 and a median household income approaching $120,000.
                                                                       fewer new households than the County but see an increase in
    The majority of residents are white (non-Hispanic), with smaller
                                                                       household size over time. This indicates that future housing should
    percentages of Asian and Hispanic residents. The community is
                                                                       be constructed for a diversity of family sizes but also consider
    highly educated, with over half of adults holding a bachelor’s
                                                                       life-cycle movement as residents age and less space is needed to
    degree or higher. A summary of the current and projected
                                                                       accommodate large families.
    population and demographic characteristics of Cottonwood
    Heights follows, providing a snapshot of how the City has
    changed in recent years and how it is projected to evolve in the
                                                                       AGE
    future (Figure 1.1).                                               Cottonwood Height’s 2023 median age of 39.1 years is significantly
                                                                       higher than both the county and state medians of 33.8 and 31.7,
                                                                       respectively. Median age has also increased across Cottonwood
                                                                       Heights, Salt Lake County, and the state since the 2010 Census,
                                                                       indicating that residents are not moving out of Cottonwood Heights
                                                                       after retirement. This trend is likely to persist, as Cottonwood
                                                                       Heights is an established community with a strong residential
                                                                       fabric, enabling residents to experience the whole lifecycle within
                                                                       the community. Chapter 3 explores the implications of potential
                                                                       population growth within the community with regards to additional
                                                                       housing needs.


8   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
EDUCATION                                                                                        Figure 1.1 – Key Demographics

                                                                                                   50,000
                                                                                                              Estimated Growth
A significant portion of the adult population holds a bachelor’s degree or higher, with
52.8% of residents aged 25 and over having a bachelor’s degree or more. These rates are
significantly higher than national, state and county averages                                                                41,878
                                                                                                   40,000
HOUSEHOLD INCOME                                                                                             33,594
Cottonwood Heights has an Area Median Income (AMI) of $116,583 which is significantly              30,000
higher than the County AMI of $94,658. Households classified under 30% AMI make 30%                            2024              2050
of the City’s median income, or $34,975 annually. Households making 30 – 50 percent of
                                                                                                               Median Age
AMI earn 30 – 50 percent of the median income for the area, or $34,975 -$58,292 annually.
Households making 100 percent of the AMI make the median income for Cottonwood
Heights. The significant difference between the City and County AMI is likely attributed to
Cottonwood Height’s location along the Cottonwood Canyons and larger, single-family                    39.1            33.8       31.7
units that present lifestyle opportunities that attract high income households.                     Cottonwood         County      State
                                                                                                      Heights
Although Cottonwood Heights is generally more affluent than comparative communities,
12.1 percent of households make only half of the median income for the area, as illustrated
                                                                                                     Bachelor’s Degree or Higher
in Table 3.3. Although this represents a significantly smaller proportion compared to Salt
Lake County at 19.8 percent, future housing types and development should consider this                            52.8%
through allotting a dedicated number of attainable housing units in each development and
exploring alternative housing options, such as ADUs, to reduce housing cost.

RACE & ETHNICITY                                                                                            Area Median Income

In 2023, there were 19.9 times more White (Non-Hispanic) residents (27.9 thousand
                                                                                                     $116,583            $94,658
                                                                                                       Cottonwood            County
people) in Cottonwood Heights than any other race or ethnicity. There were 1.4k thousand                 Heights
Asian (non-Hispanic) and 1.2k with two or more races. I.86 thousand people (5.65% of all
residents) in Cottonwood Heights were Hispanic.
                                                                                                                      Race
                                                                                                     84.8%                   84.8%
                                                                                                      nonwhite                   white




                                                                                              DRAFT CHAPTER 1: OVERVIEW & INTRO            9
     Engaging the Community
     FROM IDEAS TO ACTION
     This plan, Cottonwood Heights Tomorrow – General Plan 2025, was informed by a community engagement process that provided a range of
     opportunities for members of the public to provide comments, review and input.


     PLAN ADVISORY COMMITTEE                                              ONLINE PUBLIC MEETINGS
     An Advisory Committee composed of City and County staff, leaders,    A series of online Public Engagement Meetings were held through
     residents and other community representatives oversaw planning       June 2021 to help determine key planning issues and identify the
     efforts and provided guidance and direction as the plan was          future vision and goals for the City. The online platform provided
     developed.                                                           a range of options for the public to comment and participate,
                                                                          including a Visioning Survey to identify key issues and future
     FOCUS INTERVIEWS                                                     visions; an Crowdsource Mapping Tool to locate specific needs,
                                                                          issues, problems and opportunities; a Community Idea Board to
     The planning team met with four stakeholder groups to gather         indicate likes and missing elements; and a Vision Confirmation
     greater detail on issues facing Cottonwood Heights. These include    Survey, which helped verify the Goals and Objectives that had been
     the Parks, Recreation and Open Space Committee, Cottonwood           established.
     Heights Historic Committee, the Arts Council, and the Cottonwood
     Heights Business Association. The results of these interviews were
     documented, analyzed, and summarized, then considered during
     the development of Community Goals.




10   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
SUMMARY OF PRELIMINARY COMMUNITY VISION

City staff continued to reach out to the public through the end of 2021, resulting
in a preliminary vision of ideas:

 Managing growth and preventing over-development are the greatest issues
  facing the City.

 Most respondents prefer limiting growth. Infill development and development
  of the gravel pit were the preferred forms of new growth in comparison with
  other growth options

 Respondents want to maintain Cottonwood Heights as a place with quiet
  neighborhoods and a small-town feel.

 There is general support for a new town center at the intersection of 2300 East
  and Fort Union Blvd.

 Single-family detached houses and single-family attached rowhomes are the
  preferred housing types to meet future needs.

 Walkability throughout the City and particularly along Wasatch Boulevard and
  Fort Union Boulevard is a key issue for residents.

 Bike lanes, walking paths, and other active transportation infrastructure are
  highly supported.

 Other future transportation hopes focus on transit, more active transportation,
  traffic calming, and improved pedestrian facilities.

 Key transportation concerns include traffic congestion, increasing ski and other
  canyon traffic, the prioritization of cars over other modes of transportation, the
  lack of transit, and insufficient sidewalks and pedestrian infrastructure.

 There is strong support for protecting and expanding the parks, trails and
  open space system.




                                                                                       DRAFT CHAPTER 1: OVERVIEW & INTRO   11
     Community Goals
     FROM VISION TO REALITY
     In the ensuing years, staff has continued to refine the vision in response to additional input. This has resulted in the establishment of eight
     overarching community goals and supporting principles to lead growth and development of Cottonwood Heights in the future.

     GOAL 1: PRESERVE AND ENHANCE EXISTING                                      GOAL 2: ENHANCE NEIGHBORHOOD
     NEIGHBORHOODS                                                              CONNECTIVITY AND ACCESSIBILITY TO
                                                                                LOCAL AMENITIES
     PRINCIPLES
                                                                                PRINCIPLES
      Maintain and protect established neighborhoods by ensuring
       new development is compatible, that appropriate buffering and             Connect neighborhoods with local destinations and amenities,
       transitions are applied, and that historic buildings, districts and        especially for those walking, and bicycling.
       landscapes are preserved as part of maintaining the local history
       and “sense of place”.                                                     Attract a wider range of retail, office and other commercial
                                                                                  uses through outreach, education, advertisement and support
      Ensure new housing is consistent with existing neighborhood                programs.
       character, scale, form and density.
                                                                                 Foster a greater range of goods, services and amenities by
      Provide a balanced mix of land uses throughout the City.                   supporting the establishment and operation of locally owned
                                                                                  businesses.
      Focus commercial development along major transportation
       corridors, at neighborhood nodes and at the gravel pit site to
       provide new economic opportunities while minimizing impacts
       on existing neighborhoods.




12   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
Community Goals
GOAL 3: ENSURE COMMUNITY AND                                           GOAL 4: TRANSFORM MAJOR CORRIDORS
LIFESTYLE CHOICE
                                                                       PRINCIPLES
PRINCIPLES
                                                                        Minimize local traffic congestion and parking demand by
 Ensure that Cottonwood Heights residents have access to                developing a robust multimodal transportation system that
  housing that is safe, accessible, affordable, attractive and well-     transforms auto-oriented corridors into multimodal streets
  connected to services, amenities, parks, trails and open space
                                                                        Reduce vehicular impact by expanding transit, implementing
 Provide diverse housing options with a focus on “Missing               green fleets, promoting telecommuting and implementing an
  Middle” housing types to accommodate a range of household              active transportation network
  sizes, economic conditions, familial types and resident ages
                                                                        Encourage land uses that complement walking, biking and
 Provide opportunities that encourage residents to stay in place        transit use along major corridors
  through homeownership assistance and senior housing options

 Link residents to regional destinations through a choice of
                                                                       GOAL 5: CREATE VIBRANT, WALKABLE
  modes, with an emphasis on increasing the quality of transit         ACTIVITY CENTERS, INCLUDING A TOWN
  service                                                              CENTER

 Adapt transportation network to changing work and lifestyle          PRINCIPLES
  patterns
                                                                        Establish a discernible Cottonwood Heights downtown/city
                                                                         center

                                                                        Develop key nodes and destinations into walkable, pedestrian-
                                                                         friendly places that exude a small town, neighborly feeling




                                                                                          DRAFT CHAPTER 1: OVERVIEW & INTRO              13
     Community Goals
     GOAL 6: CONTINUE TO BUILD A GREAT AND                                 GOAL 7: PROTECT AND ENHANCE THE LOCAL
     COMPLEMENTARY CITYWIDE AND WASATCH                                    AND REGIONAL NATURAL ENVIRONMENT
     CANYONS RECREATION NETWORK
                                                                           PRINCIPLES
     PRINCIPLES
                                                                            Encourage sustainable building and site design during
      Protect and enhance existing parks, recreation facilities, trails     development processes.
       and open space systems while and developing new facilities to
                                                                            Advocate for energy conservation and renewable energy
       ensure future levels of service and long-term needs are met.
                                                                             sourcing at both the internal and public scales.
      Implement an interconnected trail and greenway network that
                                                                            Develop landscape, stormwater management and urban forestry
       connects local centers, major destinations, neighborhoods,
                                                                             policies that support local ecosystems and promote water
       parks and open spaces.
                                                                             conservation.
      Implement parking management strategies to improve access to
                                                                            Support waste management practices that minimize the
       existing and future parks, recreation facilities, open spaces and
                                                                             environmental footprint of the City, both locally and globally.
       trails.
                                                                            Preserve viewsheds through careful placement of buildings,
      Collaborate with regional partners to shape a Wasatch Canyons
                                                                             height limitations and similar regulatory measures.
       transportation network that improves access to the canyons
       from Cottonwood Heights.




14   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
Community Goals
GOAL 8: ENHANCE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
PLACE IN THE LARGER REGION

PRINCIPLES

 Establish Cottonwood Heights as a community with a distinct
  “sense of place”.

 Leverage the locational and structural advantages of the City to
  galvanize it as a regional economic hub.

 Maintain the environmental and recreational legacy of the City
  in a manner that reflects its history and traditions.

 Distinguish Cottonwood Heights as forward-thinking
  community with a state-of-the-art transportation system.

 Maintain the City as a friendly and desirable place to live and
  work.

 Distinguish Cottonwood Heights as a sustainable and resilient
  community that is easily apparent from the first visit.

 Enhance Cottonwood Heights as a great destination to visit and
  enjoy the local atmosphere.




                                                                     DRAFT CHAPTER 1: OVERVIEW & INTRO   15
16   This page intentionally left blank
CHAPTER 2
LAND USE
Land use is about people, places and how they come together             Land use planning doesn’t exist in a vacuum. It is deeply connected
for living, working, learning, and playing. It is also about creating   to transportation, recreation, economic development, and the
meaningful, vibrant spaces that enhance quality of life. The best       overall quality of a community. When carefully guided by vision,
cities are those where a mix of uses and great design come together     foresight, and good policy, it is the sum of the priorities and goals
to form the neighborhoods, centers, destinations, public spaces and     for the community. The land use strategies in this chapter aim
transportation options that people love. Effective land use planning    to help guide Cottonwood Heights as it balances growth and
results in communities that are appropriately scaled, walkable,         development with the strong desire to maintain the quality of life
comfortable, easy to navigate, safe, and welcoming to people of all     that makes the City exceptional.
ages and backgrounds.




                                                                                                           DRAFT CHAPTER 2: LAND USE            17
     Existing Conditions
     As illustrated in Map 2.1 and Table 2.1, Cottonwood Heights is          Table 2.1 – Existing Land Use
     defined not only its proximity to Big and Little Cottonwood Canyons
                                                                                                                          Area     Percent of
     and world-class outdoor recreation amenities, but also its well-              Land Use Category                     (Acres)     Total
     established single-family neighborhoods and a limited number                          Residential High Density       137.73      2%
     of higher-density residential districts concentrated along major
                                                                                        Residential Medium Density        140.63      2%
     transportation corridors. Commercial gateways stretching along the
                                                                                            Residential Low Density      3980.80      62%
     1300 East, Fort Union, and Highland Drive corridors drive economic
                                                                                           Residential Rural Density      553.44      9%
     activity in the City, supported by well-established office centers,
     an emerging town center at 2300 East and Fort Union, and several                             Residential Office      35.59        1%
     neighborhood centers that provide a range of local shopping,                                      Commercial          4.67       0%
     dining, and professional services.                                                                  Mixed Use        499.20      8%
                                                                                        Neighborhood Commercial           21.38       0%
     Nearly 350 acres in the City are represented by the undeveloped
                                                                                                             Religious    88.98        1%
     natural areas located along the east bench, which are critical for
                                                                                                                 Civic    169.89      3%
     preserving the foothills of the Wasatch Mountains as well as for
                                                                                               Parks & Open Space         220.10      3%
     recreation and backcountry access. These open lands symbolize
     the features and qualities that many residents consider to be the                              Sensitive Lands       349.06      5%
     essence of the City and should be preserved indefinitely. This leaves                            Utility/Vacant      191.14      3%
     less than three percent of open developable land remaining in the                                 Total Area:       6392.62
     City—creating demand and potential for infill redevelopment. As
     Cottonwood Heights now nears buildout, it is important to ensure
     future growth is aligned with sound principles and an inspired
     vision.



                               Nearly 350 acres in the City are represented by the undeveloped natural areas located
                               along the east bench, which are critical for preserving the foothills of the Wasatch
                               Mountains as well as for recreation and backcountry access.



18   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
Map 2.1 – Existing Land Use




                              DRAFT CHAPTER 2: LAND USE   19
     Future Vision
     The future vision for Cottonwood Heights reflects the hopes and aspirations expressed by the public and other stakeholders during the
     General Plan update. A core value that emerged from this input is support for maintaining the quality of the City’s neighborhoods and
     destinations. The establishment of thriving centers was noted as being particularly important, as they will serve as hubs for a wider range of
     uses and improve community life. Guided by ordinances and small area plans such as the Town Center Master Plan, Form-Based Code, Fort
     Union Master Plan, and Wasatch Boulevard Master Plan (and to a lesser degree the Parks, Trails and Open Space Master Plan, Transportation
     Master Plan, and Bonneville Shoreline Trail Master Plan), the establishment of vibrant centers should be a key focus for future development
     in the City. Such actions will not only improve access to a wider range of commercial, retail, and cultural services, they will also help preserve
     the value and quality of the City’s established and future neighborhoods.




     Future Vision Idea Collage


20   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
ACHIEVING THE FUTURE VISION
Accommodating inevitable growth and change is one of the key ideas that lie behind the future vision of the City. However, this need not
occur at the expense of maintaining the City’s distinctive “mountain suburban” vibe. Instead, the vision for the Cottonwood Heights of the
future is a community that:


1. Accommodates smart, balanced growth: Growth should align             6. Adapts to changing work and shopping habits: Support
   with the City’s size and maintain a balance between higher-             the establishment of locally owned businesses, restaurants,
   density areas and neighborhoods, prioritizing smart growth that         and shops to meet the needs of residents and visitors through
   is sustainable and respects the community’s character.                  proactive support of local businesses and flexible policies that
                                                                           can respond to and accommodate economic changes.
2. Acknowledges and embraces inevitable change: While limiting
   growth is preferred, change is inevitable and should be managed      7. Enhances regional commercial centers: Create policies that
   in such a way that rapid growth taking place too quickly is             support reinvestment in key commercial areas like Union Park,
   avoided. This approach respects established development                 Cottonwood, Old Mill Corporate Centers, the Gravel Pit, and
   patterns and preserves quality of life through proactive planning       other ‘super-regional’ sites to strengthen the local economy.
   and the establishment of policies that accommodate growth and
                                                                        8. Protects natural resources: The City’s natural beauty, including
   development at a manageable rate.
                                                                           views, open lands, and resources, will be preserved and
3. Follows smart growth principles: Growth will be guided by               integrated into the built environment.
   principles that ensure sustainability of the City’s economic and
                                                                        9. Preserves and expands parks and open spaces: Maintain
   natural resources, and its natural and built environments, and
                                                                           existing parks and establish new ones to ensure continued public
   benefit both current and future generations.
                                                                           access and high service levels.
4. Embraces Neighborhood-focused planning: Utilize context-
                                                                        10. Maintains a peaceful, neighborly atmosphere: Continue to
   sensitive approaches that respond to local needs at an
                                                                            foster a small-town vibe, promoting a sense of community and
   appropriate scale, ensuring that development aligns with the
                                                                            neighborliness.
   unique character of each neighborhood.
                                                                        11. Provides options for all stages of life: Create policies that
5. Balances transportation needs: Equally support the needs
                                                                            support options for different types of housing, community
   of vehicles, transit, and active transportation/pedestrians in
                                                                            destinations, parks, and services for residents at all stages of
   a dynamic transportation system that is safe , effective, and
                                                                            life—from young families to retirees.
   responsive to changing mobility trends.




                                                                                                              DRAFT CHAPTER 2: LAND USE        21
     Map 2.2 – Future Land Use




22   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
Future
Land Use
Concept
PRIORITIES &
FOCUS AREAS                                                 TOWN CENTER
                                                                                                               UNION PARK
This plan provides the vision and                                                                               REGIONAL
tools for realizing new and improved                                                                             CENTER
community and commercial centers,
targeted neighborhood improvements,
new housing options to improve housing
access and affordability, and transportation
enhancements that provide convenient



                                                                   1                                             2
access to local destinations and recreation
opportunities. The future land use concept
encapsulates the priorities expressed in
current master plans, visions and ideas
supported by the public, and a focus on                TOWN CENTER                                    ENHANCED
smart growth principles to lead growth and                                                        REGIONAL CENTERS &
                                               The implementation of a new Town Center
development in the future. It specifically                                                           DESTINATIONS
                                                 at 2300 East and Fort Union will shape
addresses the following major ideas.
                                               the built environment, public rights-of-way,
                                                 and key gateways, creating a distinctive      New and enhanced regional centers and
                                                area with a strong, tangible sense of place.   destinations including the Gravel Pit area
                                                                                               and Union Park Center.




                                                                                                  DRAFT CHAPTER 2: LAND USE             23
                                                                                                  Fo
                                                                                                       rt U
                                                                                                              nio
                                                                                                                    nB
                                                                                                                         lvd




                                                                                                                           d
                                                                                                                          Blv
                                                                                                                         ch
                                                                                                                     sat
                                                                                                                    Wa
        NEIGHBORHOOD
                       3                                           4
                                                        SMALLER-SCALE                        KEY TRANSPORTATION
                                                                                                                    5
     PLANNING DISTRICTS &                               NEIGHBORHOOD                              CORRIDORS
        MASTER PLANS                                       CENTERS                         Continued implementation (and regular
     A renewed focus on neighborhood-level        Implementation of smaller-scale          refinement) of the vision established for
     planning, including the establishment of     Neighborhood Centers in key identified   of the Fort Union Boulevard, Wasatch
     Neighborhood Planning Districts and          areas through thoughtful planning.       Boulevard, and other key transportation
     Master Plans to help ensure the needs of                                              corridors identified in previous master
     each are met within an overarching city-wide                                          plans.
     vision.




24   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
SMART GROWTH APPROACH
“Smart Growth” is the key guiding principle behind the future              Smart Growth does not only apply to new development, but also to
land use concept. It advocates for compact, walkable, and transit-         the thoughtful transition between existing uses, particularly where
supportive development minimizing inefficient development                  single-family neighborhoods border areas of new development or
patterns, and emphasizes mixed land uses, a variety of housing             redevelopment. This context-sensitive approach recognizes that
options, and sustainable transportation choices. Smart growth also         what is appropriate in one part of the City may not be in another.
promotes preserving the City’s unique neighborhoods to enhance             For a built-out city like Cottonwood Heights, this approach is critical
the “sense of place”, and safeguarding open space and critical             due to limited available land and development opportunities. By
environmental areas. A key component of Smart Growth is the                responding to the unique character and conditions of each area,
establishment of “complete streets” that are safe and accessible for       context-sensitive transitions help the City make the most of its
all users, including vehicles, transit users, pedestrians, cyclists, and   remaining opportunities. They also ensure that new development
people of all ages and abilities. This approach brings numerous            aligns with the broader community vision and integrates ideas
benefits, including reduced sprawl, improved transportation,               already supported in established master plans. The City’s existing
enhanced quality of life, economic growth, and environmental               zoning ordinance and land use designations often fall short in
sustainability.                                                            enabling this kind of nuanced planning, making context-sensitive
                                                                           Smart Growth an essential guiding principle for shaping a future
                                                                           land use pattern that reflects the City’s values and priorities.




                                    “Smart Growth” is a context-sensitive planning approach promoting compact,
                                    walkable, and transit-friendly development, diverse housing, complete streets,
                                    environmental protection, and neighborhood preservation to enhance livability,
                                    sustainability, and community identity.




                                                                                                               DRAFT CHAPTER 2: LAND USE             25
     ACHIEVING SMART GROWTH
     Achieving the land use vision requires ongoing, detailed assessments and analysis specifically tailored to each corridor, center, district and
     neighborhood, including:


     1. Embracing local history and context: Infill and redevelopment           4. Completing the park, trail, and open space system:
        efforts should respect the area’s history, traditions, and existing        Expand and improve recreation amenities to ensure high-
        patterns, with redevelopment intensities and uses aligned with             quality, accessible, and safe parks and open spaces for current
        the context of the surrounding area. Cultural and historical               and future residents across the City. This includes active
        assets should be celebrated, protected, and used wisely,                   transportation infrastructure, opportunities for both active and
        ensuring that past generations are honored and historic uses               passive recreation, improved access to public lands, and a mix of
        and sites are properly acknowledged and memorialized.                      local and regional amenities.

     2. Providing attainable housing : Develop policies, ordinances,            5. Prioritizing multi-modal transportation: Incorporate
        initiatives, and dedicate resources to support a variety of                improvements for active transportation and transit options,
        housing options such as accessory dwelling units (ADUs),                   reducing the impact of traffic while providing a wider range of
        low- to medium-density residential uses (i.e., twin homes,                 safe and viable transportation options.
        townhomes, condominiums, small-lot single-family dwellings,
                                                                                6. Maximizing infrastructure: Focus on transitioning roadways to
        etc.) and other similar housing forms. Emphasize a diverse
                                                                                   prioritize increased pedestrian and active transportation safety
        mix of housing types that offer a range of price points and
                                                                                   and accessibility, while maintaining appropriate vehicular levels
        ownership models, while ensuring compatibility with existing
                                                                                   of service.
        development patterns and neighborhood character.
                                                                                7. Maintaining Relevant and Actionable Master Plans: Regularly
     3. Enhancing development standards: Utilize small area plans,
                                                                                   review and update existing master plans, ideally every 3 to
        form-based codes, and other forward-looking redevelopment
                                                                                   5 years, to ensure they reflect current values, priorities, and
        tools to ensure that new development is compatible with
                                                                                   conditions. Timely updates support ongoing implementation
        existing neighborhoods and delivers tangible benefits to
                                                                                   and prevent the need for costly and time-consuming overhauls
        the community, making the most of development and
                                                                                   when plans become outdated.
        redevelopment opportunities as they arise.




26   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS GENERAL PLAN DRAFT
ACTIVITY CENTERS
Activity centers are central to the future land use vision of the City. They range in scale and form depending on the context of the area and
role they play in the community.

Town Center: Located at 2300 East and Fort Union Boulevard, Town Center serves as the heart of the community, offering a smaller-scale,
mixed-use environment with commercial, residential, and community spaces. A central green space is a key feature, providing a gathering
place for residents and for hosting events that strengthen the Cottonwood Heights “sense of place”. The Town Center will be shaped by a
master plan and form-based code, expanding beyond the Hillside Plaza site to include the broader area around Fort Union/2300 East. The
City should actively encourage and incentivize reinvestment and thoughtful redevelopment throughout the Town Center area and prioritize
enhancements to the design of public rights-of-way to ensure safety, connectivity, and accessibility for all users.

Regional Centers: Regional centers are the most urbanized areas in Cottonwood Heights, featuring a broad intensity and mix of commercial,
office, and residential uses. These areas have fewer restrictions on density and height, allowing them to become vibrant hubs that attract
both local residents and visitors. Union Park and the Wasatch Gravel Pit areas are identified as the sites for this type of development, with an
established master plan for each aiming to create dynamic, well-connected centers with regional significance.

Neighborhood Centers: Neighborhood centers are small-scale hubs where local dining, retail, and services are provided. Two existing
centers are located along Bengal Boulevard, offering convenience for nearby residents. Further study may identify additional neighborhood
centers through the development of Neighborhood Master Plans to enhance local access to essential services.




Town Center Concept A Streetview                 Regional Center Example - Cherry Creek Colorado   Neighborhood Center Example


                                                                                                                 DRAFT CHAPTER 2: LAND USE         27
     Land Use Goals
     GOAL 1: PRESERVE AND ENHANCE EXISTING NEIGHBORHOODS

     STRATEGIES

      Prioritize neighborhood-level planning by establishing Neighborhood Planning Districts and Master Plans to ensure each neighborhood’s
       needs are met within a broader city-wide vision.

      Protect and maintain established neighborhoods by ensuring new development is compatible, with appropriate buffering and transitions.
       Preserve historic buildings, districts, and landscapes to maintain the local history and “sense of place.” Review existing plans and
       ordinances to continually ensure that this goal is met.

      Focus commercial development along major transportation corridors and within regional and neighborhood centers to provide new
       economic opportunities while minimizing impacts on existing neighborhoods.

      Implement the vision outlined in adopted master plans, including the Fort Union Master Plan, Wasatch Boulevard Master Plan, Parks,
       Trails and Open Space Master Plan, Bonneville Shoreline Trail Access Plan, and other relevant studies, and regularly assess and update
       plans if necessary.

      Promote sustainability in existing neighborhoods through green building practices, low-impact development, energy-efficient retrofits,
       and water-wise landscaping for both new and existing structures.




28   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
Land Use Goals
GOAL 2: ENSURE COMMUNITY AND                                          GOAL 3: CREATE VIBRANT ACTIVITY
LIFESTYLE CHOICE                                                      CENTERS, INCLUDING A NEW TOWN CENTER

STRATEGIES                                                            STRATEGIES

 Foster mixed-use development that allows residents to live,          Establish a vibrant new Town Center in the 2300 East and Fort
  work, and play within walking distance of each other, reducing        Union Boulevard area, serving as the heart of the community.
  dependence on cars and promoting a more sustainable lifestyle.        Encourage investment and redevelopment within this entire
                                                                        area to create a well-connected, safe, and complimentary city
 Support affordable housing initiatives and a variety of housing
                                                                        center.
  types within each center, including affordable housing options
  for seniors, low-income families, and individuals with special       Develop regional centers and destinations, including the Gravel
  needs.                                                                Pit area, Cottonwood, and Union Park Corporate Centers, as
                                                                        walkable, pedestrian-friendly destinations that encourage
 Integrate community spaces, parks, and recreational facilities
                                                                        a small-town, neighborly atmosphere, while integrating
  within regional and neighborhood centers to enhance the
                                                                        commercial, residential, and public spaces.
  quality of life and encourage active lifestyles.
                                                                       Enhance and/or create smaller-scale Neighborhood Centers,
 Implement land use and transportation solutions along
                                                                        where appropriate, to meet the daily needs of local residents,
  key corridors such as Fort Union Boulevard and Wasatch
                                                                        emphasizing convenience and accessibility.
  Boulevard, as outlined in previous master plans, to ensure better
  connectivity and accessibility.                                      Create a comprehensive streetscape design for “complete
                                                                        streets” that enhances the pedestrian experience with amenities
                                                                        such as benches, lighting, landscaping, and public signage
                                                                        to improve the aesthetic and functionality of activity centers.
                                                                        Streetscape design standards should complement the capacity/
                                                                        road classifications in the transportation master plan while
                                                                        remaining applicable across all street types, regardless of
                                                                        capacity.




                                                                                                        DRAFT CHAPTER 2: LAND USE         29
     Land Use Goals
     GOAL 4: ENHANCE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
     PLACE IN THE LARGER REGION

     STRATEGIES

      Finalize the Form-Based Code and other zoning changes to
       ensure that the City’s planning vision is achieved, promoting
       high-quality, mixed-use development that aligns with the City’s
       goals for growth and urban design.

      Develop partnerships with neighboring cities, agencies, and
       private stakeholders to align transportation and economic
       development efforts, ensuring regional coherence and
       sustainability.

      Promote regional connectivity through improved transportation
       options, such as transit, bike-sharing programs, and carpool
       lanes, to reduce congestion and improve mobility.

      Continue to leverage the City’s location between the
       Cottonwood canyons to promote outdoor recreation as an
       integral component of the City’s identity.

      Strengthen the partnership with UDOT to collaboratively shape
       the future of the Wasatch Boulevard Corridor in a way that
       protects and supports the local community living along the
       corridor.




30   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
Land Use Action Items
The following is an Executive Summary of specific actions proposed to help meet future land use needs in Cottonwood Heights. The list
is addressed in greater detail in Chapter 8 in checklist format that classifies each item into short, medium and long-term implementation
actions to help ensure the future goals and objectives of the City are met.

 Prioritize the completion of the Town Center area and                   Continue to invest in residential neighborhoods to ensure they
  encourage investment and redevelopment to transform the area             retain their vibrancy and encourage private investment and
  into a welcoming city center and gathering place for residents           upgrading. Public realm improvements including streetscape,
  and visitors.                                                            infrastructure and trees/green structure should be applied to
                                                                           ensure the City’s maturing neighborhoods meet the needs and
 Draft Neighborhood Master Plans for each of the identified
                                                                           expectations of current and future residents.
  Cottonwood Heights neighborhoods to ensure the unique
  character and qualities of each are maintained as the City              Utilize ordinances, policies, form-based codes, and other land
  continues to grow and evolve. Update existing and create new             use regulations to encourage context sensitive smart growth
  smaller neighborhood centers that establish each neighborhood            within activity centers and neighborhoods. Adopt the Form-
  as unique while united as part of an overarching City vision.            based Code which has been developed for activity centers
                                                                           within the City.
 Continue the development of the Gravel Pit Gateway Center
  and Union Park into premier mixed use centers within the City.          Modify City Codes and Ordinances to ensure these reﬂect the
  Assess and update the master plans for these areas every 3-5             intent and direction provided by the general plan.
  years.

 Amend City ordinances to encourage sensitive infill and
  redevelopment within existing residential neighborhoods to
  help meet future housing needs through the provision of ADUs
  and “missing middle” housing types.




                                                                                                        DRAFT CHAPTER 2: LAND USE           31
32   This page intentionally left blank
CHAPTER 3
MODERATE INCOME
HOUSING PLAN
Utah Code 10-9a-403 requires that municipalities include within their General Plan a Moderate-Income Housing element. The moderate-
income housing element should include the following:

A. Provides a realistic opportunity to meet the need for additional moderate-income housing within the municipality during the next five
   years.

B. For a specified municipality (see UCA 10-9a-408) that does not have a fixed guideway public transit station, the plan should include three
   or more of the moderate-income housing strategies described in statute.

C. For a specified municipality that has a fixed guideway public transit station, the plan should include five or more of the moderate income
   housing strategies described in statute, of which one shall be the moderate income housing strategy described in Subsection (2)(b)(iii)
   (W), and one shall be a moderate income housing strategy described in Subsection (2)(b)(iii)(G), (H), or (Q); and

D. For a specified municipality, include an implementation plan as described in statute.


The moderate-income housing element should provide for a realistic opportunity to meet the need for additional moderate-income housing
within the municipality during the next five years.




                                                                           DRAFT CHAPTER 3: MODERATE INCOME HOUSING PLAN                    33
     Housing Strategies &
     Recommendations
     To qualify for State transportation funding, the State requires
     municipalities to select three housing affordability strategies
     to implement in their community. In addition, the legislature
     is giving priority funding designation to those communities
     that adopt two additional strategies. Cottonwood Heights has
     selected the following strategies for implementing moderate-
     income housing in the community.

      Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to,
       internal or detached accessory dwelling units in residential
       zones (Strategy E).

      Zone or rezone for higher density or moderate-income
       residential development in commercial or mixed-use zones
       near major transit investment corridors, commercial centers,
       or employment centers (Strategy F).

      Implement zoning incentives for moderate income units in
       new developments (Strategy H).

      Demonstrate utilization of a moderate-income housing
       set aside from a community reinvestment agency,
       redevelopment agency, or community development and
       renewal agency to create or subsidize moderate income
       housing (Strategy P).

      Reduce, waive, or eliminate impact fees related to
       moderate-income housing (Strategy L)




34   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
STRATEGY 1: CREATE OR ALLOW FOR                                         STRATEGY 2: ZONE OR REZONE FOR
AND REDUCE REGULATIONS RELATED TO                                       HIGHER DENSITY OR MODERATE-INCOME
INTERNAL ADUS                                                           RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT

Cottonwood Heights has created regulations related to internal          Cottonwood Heights has zoned or rezoned for higher density
accessory dwelling units (ADUs) in residential zones (Strategy E).      or moderate-income residential development in commercial
                                                                        or mixed-use zones near major transit investment corridors,
The City recently adopted an ADU ordinance (Title 19, Chapter
                                                                        commercial centers, or employment centers (Strategy F).
19.75) which requires an approval process through permitting.
Permits are renewed annually to allow the City to monitor the           The City has multiple commercial zones that allow for mixed
number and quality of ADU units in the City. The City also has          residential housing (Residential Office, Neighborhood Commercial,
conditionally permitted detached ADUs, which requires Planning          Mixed Use, and PDD). The City recently adopted a form-based code.
Commission approval. The City has continued in the implementation       The form-based code will create new zoning designation and land
of this goal through the City’s ADU ordinance by monitoring all         use regulations for properties within the City’s primary commercial
units to ensure compliance with existing zoning, fire, and building     corridor (Fort Union Boulevard), allowing for mixed residential units
code requirements and completing annual permit renewal and              within commercial areas. The City had also purchased property that
initial inspection for all units. 10 licenses have been approved and    would be redeveloped into a town center and would include mixed-
issued, with 5 additional licenses under review. The City has created   use (public space, retail, and housing) under the form-based code.
a webpage and informational handouts to help educate residents          Developers and landowners are actively taking advantage of this
on the steps required to obtain an ADU license.                         change. Two mixed-use projects (ICO and Wasatch Rock Planned
                                                                        Development Zones) under this provision have been entitled (one
IMPLEMENTATION
                                                                        completed), creating mixed-use developments with substantially
 Continue to monitor the number of applications received               more housing options available (1 total housing unit between the
  and approved for ADUs biannually (June and December each              two projects originally (entitled granted for over 600 units between
  year), and promote the City’s ADU licensing process in City           the two projects).
  publications.
                                                                        Along major corridors, the City has adopted and/or is considering
 Research other cities ADU standards and consider ordinance            zoning options that accommodate residential density within
  amendments to streamline pathway/regulations for detached             commercially zoned areas. The City has fairly high permitted
  ADUs (Spring 2026).                                                   density in these areas (35 units per acre in its mixed-use zone)
                                                                        and is in consideration of a form-based development code
 Develop a City ‘card file’ system for new homes / ADUs as             that continues to accommodate these types of densities in key
  pre-engineered building plans can expedite review times and           commercial redevelopment areas. Recently, the City has begun the
  expenses (Spring 2026).                                               process of developing a neighborhood mixed-use land use type to
                                                                        accommodate smaller-scale mixed-use projects in its Neighborhood


                                                                         DRAFT CHAPTER 2: MODERATE INCOME HOUSING PLAN                      35
     Commercial areas. The City has also procured funding through           of multifamily units must be deed-restricted units) to maintain
     the Wasatch Front Regional Council to update its General Plan,         affordability in valuable redevelopment areas. The City also actively
     which will include a substantial affordable housing element.           tracks projects that are using the zoning incentives tool to ensure
     Additionally, the City has received funding to complete a form-        that new development provides moderate income housing in
     based redevelopment code, which will assist in implementing the        projects. Additionally, the City requires developers to submit
     land use and housing recommendations from the updated General          quarterly reports on the number of affordable units in addition to
     Plan. Both projects are currently underway.                            information on how the units are marketed.

     IMPLEMENTATION                                                         The City has implemented a density bonus system which has
                                                                            resulted in over twenty 50 percent AMI units and over forty 80
      Continue to track the number of moderate-income housing
                                                                            percent AMI units. One project (ICO) contains approximately 200
       units in developments along the corridor (June each year).
                                                                            total residential units – 21 of which are affordable to households
      Ensure that mixed-use housing options are properly codified,         earning not more than 50% AMI. This project is completed and fully
       defined, and regulated in various non-residential zoning districts   occupied. A second project (Wasatch Rock Planned Development
       (Fall 2025).                                                         Zone) has received development entitlement, with site construction,
                                                                            permitting, and plan review underway. Of the 400 total residential
      Identify development strategies to utilize private resources,        units in the entitled project, 15% of units will be affordable to
       public-private partnerships, and other state-and federal-            households earning not more than 80% of AMI. This 6-phase
       level programs to implement goals such as improving active           development process will include affordable housing in the first
       infrastructure along Fort Union Boulevard (Winter 2027).             phase with 15 percent of the units being affordable.

                                                                            IMPLEMENTATION
     STRATEGY 3: IMPLEMENT ZONING
     INCENTIVES FOR MODERATE INCOME UNITS                                    Continue to track development projects using incentive tools
     IN NEW DEVELOPMENTS                                                      (June each year).

     Cottonwood Heights has implemented zoning incentives to provide         Identify local financial incentives for development of targeted
     additional low and moderate-income units within developments             housing types such as FHIZ/HOPZ zones, use of future TIF/CDRA
     (Strategy J).                                                            funds, fee waivers/reductions for MIH projects, etc. (Fall 2025).

     The City created an ordinance (Title 19, Chapter 19.78) that creates
     opportunity for a planned development district with high density
     allowances. The planned development ordinance requires deed-
     restricted units in these development areas (a minimum of 10-15%




36   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS GENERAL PLAN DRAFT
STRATEGY 4: DEMONSTRATE UTILIZATION                                  STRATEGY 5: REDUCE, WAIVE, OR ELIMINATE
OF A MODERATE INCOME HOUSING SET                                     IMPACT FEES RELATED TO MODERATE-
ASIDE FROM A CRA, RDA, OR CDA AND                                    INCOME HOUSING
RENEWAL AGENCY TO CREATE OR SUBSIDIZE
MODERATE INCOME HOUSING                                              Cottonwood Heights has plans to reduce, waive, or eliminate impact
                                                                     fees related to moderate income housing (Strategy L).
Cottonwood Heights has utilized a moderate-income housing set
                                                                     Cottonwood Heights City has the ability to charge impact fees for
aside from a community reinvestment agency, redevelopment
                                                                     stormwater and roads as part of new development projects. The
agency, or community development and renewal agency (Strategy
                                                                     City will review its impact fees associated with development and
P).
                                                                     identify ways in which these fees can be reduced and/or waived to
A Community Reinvestment Area for the City’s Town Center (the        help encourage more moderate income housing within the City. The
general area around Fort Union Boulevard and 2300 East) has been     City will take this same approach with additional types of impact
created for approximately 70 acres, and the City intends to begin    fees that it may consider from time to time (fire, park, public safety,
budget negotiations with taxing entities within the coming year to   etc.).
work towards the establishment of TIF.
                                                                     IMPLEMENTATION
The City has also reallocated funds left over from two community
                                                                      Review impact fees with development community to identify
development areas established and completed prior to City
                                                                       criteria in which fees can be reduced/waived to promote more
incorporation. Ten percent of this reallocated fund has been
                                                                       incentives for moderate income housing (Spring 2026).
tentatively budgeted for affordable housing implementation in the
City, or investment into a regional affordable housing investment     Establish attainable goals and objectives based on impact fee
fund.                                                                  review that can be integrated into the City’s 2026 Moderate
                                                                       Income Housing Report (Fall 2026).
IMPLEMENTATION

 Begin process of establishing TIF collection within the Town
  Center Community Reinvestment Area (Spring 2026).

 Consider creation of Gravel Pit Community Reinvestment Project
  Area (CRA) by developing plan documents (2026).

 Formalize plan to utilize leftover CDA / EDA funds, including a
  portion for investment in affordable housing solutions (Winter
  2025).




                                                                      DRAFT CHAPTER 2: MODERATE INCOME HOUSING PLAN                        37
     ADDITIONAL STATE SUPPORT
     The City could benefit from additional training related to MIHR requirements and data collection. In addition, training related to the 24
     identified strategies and how to implement these strategies could be beneficial.

     ADDITIONAL RECOMMENDATIONS
     Numerous programs are available to encourage the development and preservation of affordable housing at all income levels.
     Homeownership programs are well established, and support should continue and expand. The Home Program and HOME Investment
     Partnership Act are important resources for moderate and low-income homeowners, and CDBG funds can also be used to assist
     homeowners. In addition, the Utah Housing Corporation provides homeownership assistance through below market loans (FirstHome), down
     payment and closing cost assistance, and lease to-own housing supported by Low Income Housing Tax Credits (CROWN). Further, HUD has
     special loans for the construction of rental and cooperative housing for the elderly and handicapped. In addition, funds are available under
     the Olene Walker Loan Fund and the McKinney Fund (with emphasis on transitional housing).

     Additional programs that the City is interested in exploring, in addition to the strategies identified above, are targeted at providing options
     for current property owners and current properties to ensure that housing remains affordable over time. Several strategies for this are as
     follows:

      As budget permits, establish a neighborhood improvement                   In addition to City policies and programs, the City will
       fund, that can provide funding for qualifying property owners              continue to engage in other sectors responsible for housing
       for maintenance, repairs, and general property improvement.                development, to share in the effort in providing affordable
       The City will work to develop a policy and framework for this              housing options. This includes private sector groups, non-profit
       program, which can then be funded at the City’s discretion upon            organizations, and other levels of government (state, federal).
       budget availability;

      Expansion of the City’s 50/50 sidewalk repair program to assist
       in repair costs for sidewalks, drive approaches, and park strips in
       front of existing homes in the City;




38   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
FINANCIAL RESOURCES FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT

Potential funding sources for housing include revenue from the
general fund, CDBG grants and RDA affordable housing pass
through. The general fund is essentially drawing upon the existing
resources of the community and reallocating some of these
resources to promote affordable housing. This could include
earmarked sales tax or other revenue to provide development
subsidies for deed-restricted affordable housing. The CDBG funds
may require some reallocation of funds from infrastructure needs to
housing, although both are valid projects.

PRESERVATION OF HOUSING STOCK

The preservation and rehabilitation of the current housing stock
(rental and owner-occupied) will also be an important way to help
keep housing affordable. The City should set a goal to rehabilitate
a number of housing units before the year 2025. There are various
programs available to the City to assist with home rehabilitation
efforts. The HOME consortium and the Home Programs will be
important to help people under 80 percent of HAMFI preserve the
quality of their home investments. Additionally, CDBG funds can
be obtained to manage and invest into low- and moderate-income
areas. While infrastructure is important for community building,
some portion of the CDBG budget should be targeted toward
housing programs.

COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT AREAS

Additional Redevelopment Agency (RDA) funds could become
available to the community with the establishment of Community
Reinvestment Areas and the redevelopment of selected sites. Under
Community Reinvestment Areas (CRAs), the redevelopment agency
is required to allocate 10 to 20 percent of total tax




                                                                      DRAFT CHAPTER 3: MODERATE INCOME HOUSING PLAN   39
40   This page intentionally left blank
CHAPTER 4
TRANSPORTATION
A good transportation system is key to the success of any city,       The Transportation Element also provides a vision for making the
connecting people to destinations within and beyond the borders.      best use out of the City’s public rights-of-way – whether for motor
This Transportation Element establishes a vision and strategies       vehicle use, transit, bicycling, walking, or other modes - or for
for meeting transportation needs that are consistent with the         other uses such as public spaces, recreation, or for maintaining
community’s overall values and priorities. It is comprised of two     scenic views. It is prepared to meet State law requirements that
main components: the Network Vision and the Transportation Goals      multimodal needs are achieved over a 20–30‑year horizon, and
and Strategies. The Network Vision establishes a connected network    considers how Cottonwood Heights is connected to and influenced
of transportation and street infrastructure to serve the community,   by the rest of the Wasatch Front region.
while the Goals and Strategies lay out the key priorities for
transportation systems and streets and how they will be achieved.




                                                                                            DRAFT CHAPTER 4: TRANSPORTATION                 41
     A Complete                                                           NETWORK CONCEPT
     Streets                                                              The Transportation Network Concept establishes the overall spatial
                                                                          vision for how various transportation modes will complement the
                                                                          others on along the street corridors, highways, trails, hubs and

     Community                                                            centers of the City. Visualized in Map 4.1, this framework is based
                                                                          on and fully aligned with established local and regional plans, as
                                                                          follow:

     The overarching approach of this plan is to establish                 Cottonwood Heights adopted a standalone Transportation
     Cottonwood Heights as a “complete streets” community. Since            Master Plan in 2023 to guide corridor, trail, and transit
     Cottonwood Heights is a suburban city, it’s transportation             investments through 2050. The goals of the plan are to enhance
     system should acknowledge the importance of personal                   neighborhood connectivity and pedestrian safety; improve
     vehicle travel while ensuring that transit, active transportation,     active transportation networks to promote use; provide safe and
     walking, and other modes are accommodated in a manner                  efficient traffic movement; and support regional coordination
     that is safe, comfortable and aligned with roadway and                 and cooperation.
     infrastructure investments. The City contains a range of parks,
                                                                           The Bicycle and Trails Master Plan was adopted in 2016,
     schools, commercial areas, and other community destinations,
                                                                            establishing goals and actions for creating a safe, connected
     and this plan proposes to connect them and make them
                                                                            cycling network.
     more accessible through careful consideration of the various
     transportation modes.                                                 The Mid‑Valley Active Transportation Plan established a regional
                                                                            “backbone” of priority routes across Cottonwood Heights and
                                                                            five neighboring cities.

                                                                           The 2021 Parks, Trails, and Open Space Master Plan established a
                                                                            planned citywide network of trails that are focused on meeting
                                                                            the recreational needs of the City.

                                                                           The Town Center Master Plan and Traffic Study focused on
                                                                            needed transportation and walkability improvements for
                                                                            creating a Town Center at 2300 East and Fort Union Boulevard,
                                                                            which are described in greater detail in Chapter 2 - Land Use.




42   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
Each of these local efforts dovetail with the 2023–2050 Wasatch Front Regional          COMMUNITY MOBILITY
Transportation Plan, which emphasizes improved opportunity, safety, and
sustainability. By merging this regional vision with localized transportation ideas     HUBS
and goals of the General Plan, the Transportation Network can be expressed by
                                                                                        Community Mobility Hubs are relatively small,
the following ideas:
                                                                                        less intensive and more singularly focused
 Centers and corridors: The foundation of the network centers around key               type of hub. They might connect residents
  areas that need to be connected and the major streets and roads that link             with popular local amenities such as the future
  them. The City’s activity centers are established and detailed in Chapter 2 –         Town Center, parks, or the recreation centers
  Land Use, while major corridors addressed in local and regional master plans          and schools near Butler Park. Incorporating a
  are the envisioned responses for creating a unified system.                           Community Mobility Hub into the design of
                                                                                        the Cottonwood Heights Town Center would
 Vehicular movement: Vehicular routes focus on the functional classification
                                                                                        help establish the identity of the site, providing
  envisioned in the Transportation Master Plan, in addition to key access points
                                                                                        options for short trips, promoting ridership on
  to the regional freeway network.
                                                                                        Fort Union Boulevard in anticipation of higher-
 Active transportation: The active transportation network includes “backbone”          frequency service in the future, and including a
  routes located on major and regional corridors that have been identified in           potential local circulatory service. At Butler Park
  various bicycle and trails plans, in addition to potential connections along          and other community destinations such hubs
  “byways” that function as shared on-street, low-speed routes through                  can serve bikers and pedestrians, be a circulatory
  neighborhoods.                                                                        service stop, and support temporary and/
                                                                                        or mobile commercial amenities such as food
 Transit: The transit network is comprised of a range of types of bus service          trucks and pop-up businesses.
  corridors that are classified by priority: the highest priority are “primary”
  corridors, while lower priority routes are classified as “secondary” corridors. The
  system also includes corridors expected to continue providing transit service
  to the Wasatch Canyons, in addition to locations envisioned for mobility hubs,
  which are high-activity stops that offer a range of transportation services
  across two or more modes.

 Barrier crossings: Places where routes cross or are envisioned to cross major
  barriers such as busy streets, creeks, steep slopes, or large properties. Both at-
  grade and grade-separated solutions are proposed, depending on the specific
  needs of each barrier and crossing.

 Regional access: Regional access points currently consist of entries to the
  freeway network. In the future they are envisioned to also encompass regional
  multi-modal hubs.
                                                                                          DRAFT CHAPTER 4: TRANSPORTATION                 43
     TOWARDS A COMPLETE NETWORK
     As stated, the central goal for the City’s transportation system is to create a “complete network” that efficiently uses the City’s streets to
     provide safe and convenient routes for all modes of travel (Map 4.1). The City is committed to providing quality routes and connections to
     neighborhoods and key destinations for every user, recognizing that not all streets will serve each mode equally. This vision is supported by
     the following goals and suggested strategies, which can guide future transportation decisions and projects. A comprehensive list of goals
     and strategies is found at the end of the chapter.


     1. CREATING A SAFE, EFFECTIVE, &                                           2. DEVELOPING & IMPLEMENTING
     BALANCED NETWORK                                                           CORRIDOR MASTER PLANS
     The Transportation Master Plan functional class hierarchy, updated         Street connectivity can be approved by addressing the disconnected
     every five years, can help to ensure that the City’s roadways              street patterns found in many neighborhoods and districts. While
     continue to operate at a desired level of service and efficiency for all   these patterns can create calm environments, they also can cause
     modes of transportation as travel patterns evolve over time.               an over-reliance on major roads, limit pedestrian walkability,
                                                                                slow emergency response times, and weaken the system’s overall
     Safety is paramount to any complete streets community and
                                                                                resilience. Opportunities to retrofit existing neighborhoods, districts,
     Cottonwood Heights’ strategies for increasing safety should
                                                                                and corridors to balance low-traffic environments with improved
     be tailored to the specific type of street and its context. This is
                                                                                major roadway connectivity should be explored.
     best achieved by reducing speed and eliminating conflict points.
     Roadway design, supported by posted speed limits and traffic law           One approach is to include community context-sensitive planning,
     enforcement, is an effective strategy for reducing speed. Conflict         which means designing streets differently based on their
     points, such as driveways, intersections, and busy corridors,              specific location and context. For example, streets in residential
     can be mitigated through the development of specific safety                neighborhoods might have a different design than those in
     enhancements aimed at protecting all users.                                commercial corridors, employment areas, or walkable mixed-use
                                                                                centers. The development of a street design manual is an effective
                                                                                strategy for establishing specific design standards and ensuring
                                                                                that specific street types are implemented where needed to meet
                                                                                functional, safety, and speed reduction goals. The best street design
                                                                                manuals include a full range of street types as well as options for
                                                                                intersection design, traffic calming, and access management.




44   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
Map 4.1 – Cottonwood Heights Network Concept



                                                      Centers and Corridors

                                                               Activity Center
                                                               Community Destination Area


                                                      Vehicular - Transportation Master Plan
                                                               State Highway
                                                               Urban Core Arterial
                                                               Urban Arterial / Collector


                                                      Active Transportation Network
                                                                     Off-street trail
                                                                     On-street separated path
                                                                     Desired Byway Connection
                                                               Key barrier crossing


                                                     Transit Network
                                                               Primary bus transit corridor
                                                               Secondary bus transit corridor
                                                               Potentialcirculator transit
                                                               Mountain transit corridor

                                                               Regional transit/mobility hub
                                                               Community mobility hub


                                                      Regional Access
                                                               Existing regional freeway
                                                               access point
                                                               Planned multi-modal regional
                                                               access point

                                                      City Context
                                                             Civic
                                                             Cemetery
                                                             Parks & Open Space
                                                             Sensitive Lands
                                                             Creek / River
                                                             Canal




                                               DRAFT CHAPTER 4: TRANSPORTATION                  45
     3. ACCOMMODATING LOCAL &                                             4. MAKING CYCLING A SAFE &
     REGIONAL TRAFFIC                                                     ATTRACTIVE CHOICE
     As the City continues to mature, planning for both current and       For cycling to become a truly viable transportation option in the
     future traffic needs is essential. The Transportation Master Plan    City, a connected and well-planned network is essential. While
     (TMP) projects traffic volumes through 2050 and identifies where     challenges such as steep topography, dispersed development, and
     capacity improvements may be necessary. These improvements are       high-speed roads make cycling difficult in some areas, the City
     intended to support the City’s broader economic and community        also has meaningful opportunities to expand its network. Existing
     development goals while maintaining safe, efficient travel. Moving   trails, a strong recreational cycling culture, proximity to the Wasatch
     forward with the phased projects outlined in the TMP would help      Mountains, and a growing interest in active transportation all
     sustain acceptable levels of service, improve safety, and enhance    position the community to strengthen cycling as both a recreational
     walkability across the community.                                    amenity and a practical mode of travel.

     In addition to the TMP, the City can draw on strategies from         Building on this momentum, the City can use guidance from the
     the Town Center Traffic Study, which examined the impacts of         Parks, Trails, and Open Space Master Plan and the Mid-Valley Active
     a new Town Center near Fort Union Boulevard and 2300 East.           Transportation Plan to shape improvements. One strategy includes
     Implementing its recommendations would improve safety, visibility,   adopting the “Backbones and Byways” concept, which combines
     and accessibility for all modes of transportation. The City may      high-comfort paths and trails along major corridors with shared
     also continue to coordinate with UDOT to monitor the three           routes on quieter neighborhood streets. This approach would
     I-215 interchanges—Union Park Avenue, Highland Drive, and            allow residents to move safely and comfortably between homes
     6200 South—to ensure these vital regional access points remain       and destinations while following the most direct routes possible,
     aligned with long-term transportation plans. Together, these         helping cycling evolve into a convenient and reliable part of the
     strategies create a proactive approach to managing growth while      transportation system.
     strengthening connections within the City and the region.
                                                                          Prioritizing bicycle improvements in high-activity and high-use
                                                                          areas where active transportation is in demand, such as major
                                                                          corridors, the Town Center, and the Wasatch Boulevard/gravel pit
                                                                          district will help to establish the City’s cycling vision and reduce
                                                                          barriers for future enhancements.




46   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
BACKBONES & BYWAYS                                                       5. CONNECTING THE CITY ON
The City’s vision for a bicycle network rests on the combination of      FOOT
two complementary types of routes: backbones and byways.
                                                                         Walking is the most fundamental mode of travel, serving as the
Backbones are major infrastructure upgrades along key corridors
                                                                         “glue” that ties the transportation system together since every
that provide regionally scaled active transportation options that
                                                                         trip begins and ends on foot. The City has the opportunity
are safer and more appealing for a broad range of users. Examples
                                                                         to become a walkable community where walking is safe,
of such enhancements include the installation of grade-separated
                                                                         comfortable, and an easy way to connect neighborhoods with
bike lanes along arterials and collectors (e.g. Fort Union Boulevard),
                                                                         activity centers while complementing other modes of travel.
installing physical barriers between traffic lanes and active
                                                                         Achieving this vision will require closing sidewalk gaps, such as
transportation facilities, the inclusion of crosswalk and intersection
                                                                         those south of Fort Union Boulevard between 2700 East and
safety measures, and off-street trail systems that allow broad
                                                                         3000 East and north of Fort Union east of Highland Drive, to
access and use without interfacing with roadways (i.e. East Jordan
                                                                         create a more continuous and connected pedestrian system.
Canal Trail). Backbone routes should be established on regional
transportation and land use plans where possible (WFRC Wasatch           In addition to filling gaps, the City can strengthen its pedestrian
Choice Vision, RTP, Beehive Bikeways, Utah Trail Network, etc.)          network by making small but strategic connections that deliver
to increase the likelihood of prioritization and securing outside        large benefits, such as a hillside trail at Union Park Centre or
funding, as prioritized projects are typically more costly and require   a pathway linking the Parkridge neighborhood to Siesta Drive
connections with adjacent jurisdictions.                                 through Crestwood Park. Improving the walking experience
                                                                         will also depend on context-sensitive enhancements like
Byways are neighborhood routes that typically require minor
                                                                         shaded routes with trees and buffers, pedestrian-scale lighting,
improvements such as enhanced striping and the installation of
                                                                         and public art to add comfort and visual interest. Finally,
wayfinding and signage systems. Byways are easier to plan and
                                                                         focusing investments in high-activity areas, including centers,
typically require less legwork to implement once designated
                                                                         destinations, and high-traffic corridors, combined with strong
and funded. Byway improvements are usually implemented with
                                                                         roadway design standards, can reduce conflicts and make
significant input by both neighborhood users and residents as part
                                                                         walking a safe and attractive option for residents of all ages
of establishing effective routes and design solutions.
                                                                         and abilities.




                                                                                           DRAFT CHAPTER 4: TRANSPORTATION                 47
     6. PROMOTING A COMPLEMENTARY                                             7. MULTI-MODAL ACCESS TO
     TRANSIT SYSTEM                                                           CENTERS
     The City’s current transit service is limited, with moderate to low      The City’s future transportation network will be shaped largely
     ridership on most routes despite major employment centers such as        by its activity centers, as outlined in the Land Use Chapter. While
     Cottonwood Corporate Center and Union Park. However, ongoing             today these areas are primarily car-oriented, key destinations such
     redevelopment and new Transportation Demand Management                   as the Cottonwood Corporate Center and the Gravel Pit present
     (TDM) opportunities provide a strong chance to improve transit           opportunities to evolve into high-quality, multi-modal hubs that
     in ways that complement the broader transportation network.              balance regional access with local needs. Likewise, the Town Center
     Facilitating TDM efforts in the Cottonwood Corporate Center could        and neighborhood centers can strengthen community connections
     encourage more employees to use transit and carpools, while future       by becoming highly walkable places designed to serve residents
     development at the adjacent Gravel Pit site could support frequent,      first. Prioritizing a multi-modal environment in the Town Center,
     high-quality transit service. The City may also collaborate with UTA     guided by the Town Center Traffic Study, would establish the
     to establish a major transit hub at Union Park, creating an accessible   foundation for this shift.
     multi-modal center that links multiple bus routes and travel modes.
                                                                              Creating more walkable centers may involve introducing
     Similarly, a Gravel Pit/Wasatch Canyon Base Hub could connect
                                                                              smaller blocks, fully connected streets and paths, pedestrian-
     valley and mountain transit services, positioning the site as a key
                                                                              friendly design, and traffic-calming features that allow vehicles
     regional destination.
                                                                              and pedestrians to share space safely. Major street corridors
     Additional opportunities exist along the Fort Union Corridor, where      within activity centers could be redesigned into human-scaled
     planned land-use intensification could increase ridership and justify    environments with slower traffic, frequent crossings, and public
     greater service frequency with upgraded passenger amenities.             gathering spaces. At the Gravel Pit, the City will seek to meet future
     The City may also explore public-private partnerships to introduce       travel demand sustainably while limiting local impacts, and along
     shuttles or micro-transit connections between core activity centers.     Wasatch Boulevard, enhancements from the corridor’s master plan
     Improving access to transit will be equally important, and could         could draw canyon recreation users into nearby centers. Together,
     include evaluating walk-sheds around stops, strengthening bicycle        these strategies would allow activity centers to become vibrant,
     connections, and addressing barriers that prevent safe or direct         connected places that anchor the City’s transportation future.
     access. Together, these strategies would expand the role of transit in
     supporting both local mobility and regional connectivity.




48   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
8. ENHANCING NEIGHBORHOOD                                               10. ENHANCING THE CITY’S
LIVABILITY                                                              REGIONAL PRESENCE
The City places a strong emphasis on neighborhood improvements          Access to the regional transportation system is essential for
that reinforce livability. Transportation practices in these areas      Cottonwood Heights, particularly since most residents commute
should balance access and connectivity with a slower-speed              outside the City for work. The three I-215 interchanges at Union
environment that fosters safety and a distinct sense of place.          Park Avenue, Highland Drive, and 6200 South serve as vital
Creating “slow environment” neighborhoods that remain well-             gateways, while opportunities also exist to improve regional transit
connected can help achieve this balance, while also improving           access and enhance the Wasatch Canyon transportation system.
connections between neighborhoods and to major streets in ways          Collaborating with UDOT to monitor and manage interchange
that prioritize safety and comfort.                                     performance will help ensure these corridors continue to function
                                                                        effectively while balancing the needs of multiple travel modes.
Other strategies may include managing on-street parking based on
                                                                        Strategic transit hub investments could further strengthen
each neighborhood’s unique needs, demand, and supply, as well as
                                                                        connections, such as a Union Park hub consolidating bus routes or
ensuring new developments are integrated into the existing street
                                                                        a Gravel Pit hub providing access to new development and regional
and pathway network in a way that supports livability. Ultimately,
                                                                        destinations like downtown Salt Lake City.
the City’s goal is to provide all neighborhoods with a range of safe,
convenient transportation choices that strengthen community             Beyond freeway and transit connections, regional integration also
character and quality of life.                                          depends on strengthening key links with neighboring jurisdictions.
                                                                        Existing roadways and potential trail corridors provide limited
9. INCORPORATING EMERGING                                               but critical opportunities to connect, and partnerships with Salt
MOBILITY TRENDS                                                         Lake County and nearby cities will be important for coordinating
                                                                        improvements, particularly for transit and active transportation. The
The City recognizes that mobility is rapidly evolving and must          City may also work with regional partners to shape the Wasatch
proactively adapt policies and codes to keep pace with new              Canyons transportation network in a way that promotes canyon
technologies and travel trends. This may include managing scooters      transit use while reducing impacts like cut-through traffic and
by directing their use to streets rather than sidewalks, integrating    overflow parking. Creating accessible, multi-modal public spaces
ride-sharing through designated pickup and drop-off areas at            along the Wasatch edge could extend these benefits, linking
activity centers like the Town Center, and preparing for the impacts    regional travel demand with vibrant local destinations.
of automated vehicles. By staying informed on these advances
and incorporating them thoughtfully into local planning, the City
can ensure its transportation system remains safe, adaptable, and
aligned with long-term community goals.



                                                                                              DRAFT CHAPTER 4: TRANSPORTATION               49
     Transportation Goals
     GOAL 1: SHAPE AND MAINTAIN A SAFE, EFFECTIVE, AND BALANCED STREET NETWORK.

     STRATEGIES

      Transportation Master Plan functional class hierarchy:                Street connectivity: Many Cottonwood Heights neighborhoods
       Utilizing the guidance provided in the Transportation Master           and districts have disconnected street patterns. While this can
       Plan, functional class hierarchy updates will be provided every        facilitate calm neighborhood street environments, it also leads
       five years to ensure roadways operate at a desired efficiency          to an over reliance on major roads, limits pedestrian walkability,
       and level of service for traffic and other key modes as patterns       slows emergency response times, and weakens the overall
       evolve over time.                                                      resilience of the street system. To address these issues, the City
                                                                              should identify opportunities to retrofit existing neighborhoods,
      Emphasize safety: Safe Streets are paramount in Cottonwood
                                                                              districts, and corridors to balance low-traffic neighborhood
       Heights. Strategies for increasing safety depend on the type of
                                                                              street environments with major roadway connectivity.
       street and its context – which can be improved by eliminating
       conflict points or reducing speed. Speed reduction should be          Community context-sensitive planning: Streets should
       achieved through roadway design and supported by posting               be treated differently depending on their specific location
       speed limits and enforcing traffic laws. Safety is particularly        and context. For example, streets that serve residential
       important in areas where vehicles interface with pedestrians and       neighborhoods should be designed differently from those
       cyclists, such as driveways, intersections, and on busy corridors.     located in commercial corridors, employment areas, or walkable
       In such areas, specific safety enhancements efforts should be          mixed-use centers.
       developed to ensure streets are safe for all users.
                                                                             Street design manual: Cottonwood Heights should develop
                                                                              a street design manual that provides a menu of standards that
                                                                              ensure specific street types are implemented where needed
                                                                              and in a manner that meets functional, safety and/or speed
                                                                              reduction goals. The design manual should include a full range
                                                                              of street types, including intersection, traffic calming, and access
                                                                              management options




50   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
Transportation Goals
GOAL 2: DEVELOP AND IMPLEMENT MASTER                          GOAL 3: ACCOMMODATE TRAFFIC, BOTH
PLANS FOR THE MAJOR CORRIDORS.                                LOCALLY AND REGIONALLY.

STRATEGIES                                                    STRATEGIES

 Implement the Wasatch Boulevard Master Plan.                 Implement Transportation Master Plan capacity
                                                                improvements: Many of the projects contained in the TMP
 Implement the Fort Union Boulevard Master Plan.               are focused on maintaining traffic level of service, in addition
                                                                to safety and walkability. This plan embraces that approach,
 Create a master plan for Highland Drive.
                                                                encouraging the implementation of specific projects over three
 Consider a master plan for Bengal Boulevard.                  phases.

 Implement the master plans through city ordinance            Implement and Consider the Town Center Traffic Study:
  amendments, capital planning for infrastructure projects,     A new Town Center is proposed near the intersection of Fort
  requirements during redevelopment applications, and other     Union Boulevard and 2300 East. A traffic study prepared for
  similar measures.                                             the proposed project analyzed the impacts of the envisioned
                                                                development along these two roadways. Implementing the
                                                                strategies contained in the traffic study will improve the safety,
                                                                visibility and accessibility for Town Center users across the full
                                                                range of transportation modes.

                                                               Continue to enable regional access points: Three interchanges
                                                                in Cottonwood Heights provide access to I-215 (Union Park Ave,
                                                                Highland Drive, 6200 South), all of which are vital vehicular
                                                                gateways into the City. City staff should coordinate with UDOT
                                                                to monitor performance and ensure potential changes and
                                                                modifications to these access points are aligned with the various
                                                                transportation master plans already completed.




                                                                                    DRAFT CHAPTER 4: TRANSPORTATION                  51
     Transportation Goals
     GOAL 4: MAKE BICYCLING A SAFE AND ATTRACTIVE TRANSPORTATION CHOICE.

     STRATEGIES

      Implement plan guidance: The Cottonwood Heights Parks, Trails, and Open Space Master Plan and the Mid‑Valley Active Transportation
       Plan are key policy documents that guide the bicycle network. The goals, actions and implementation measures contained in these plans
       should continue to be implemented to enhance cycling as an active transit option.

      Backbones and Byways concept: The “Backbones and Byways” concept supports the establishment of a quality bicycle network with
       1) separated, high-comfort paths and trails on major regional corridors and 2) shared roadways on slow, neighborhood streets. If
       implemented, the concept provides a realistic means for local residents to safely and comfortably walk or cycle from their homes to local
       destinations along a route that is as direct as possible considering well-established traffic and development patterns.

      Prioritized areas: While bicycle improvements should be prioritized by city leadership, they should generally focus on high-activity
       and high-use areas where cycling and other active transportation is in demand, such as major corridors, the Town Center area, and the
       Wasatch Boulevard/gravel pit district. Implementing cycling enhancements in these areas will help establish the cycling vision for the City
       and reduce barriers for additional enhancements in the future.


     GOAL 5: CONNECT THE CITY AND ITS DESTINATIONS FOR SAFE AND COMFORTABLE
     WALKING.

     STRATEGIES

      Complete the sidewalk system: For walking to be a viable means for traveling around the City, the sidewalk system must be safe,
       accessible and fully connected. While most Cottonwood Heights neighborhoods have functional sidewalks, they are missing in several
       areas of the City, including areas south of Fort Union Boulevard between 2700 East and east of 3000 East; north of Fort Union east of
       Highland Drive; and in several other isolated “gap” areas. The City should work with residents to determine the best ways to fill gaps in
       order to enhance pedestrian movement, safety and comfort.

      Make key pedestrian connections: Identify other gap areas where small links can provide major network benefits. Key examples might
       include a Union Park Centre hillside trail, or a new connection from Parkridge neighborhood to Siesta Drive via Crestwood Park.


52   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
Transportation Goals
 Improve pedestrian experience: Match the scale to the needs and setting of each pedestrian route, through the introduction of trees
  and vegetative buffers to enhance comfort and provide shade, and through careful alignments that respond seamlessly with existing
  topography and provide visual interest. Facility improvements should also incorporate public art and provide coordinated street
  furnishings and pedestrian-scale lighting, helping to make the pedestrian experience not only safe but enjoyable.

 Focus on high activity areas: Enhanced pedestrian amenities should be planned for high-activity areas, including the existing and future
  centers and destinations. These efforts should be complemented with strict roadway design standards specifically designed to reduce
  conflict between users in high-traffic settings.


GOAL 6: PROMOTE TRANSIT SERVICE AND INFRASTRUCTURE THAT COMPLEMENTS THE REST
OF THE NETWORK.

STRATEGIES

 Enhance Cottonwood Corporate Center Area Transit Through TDM: Organize or facilitate TDM efforts aimed at shifting more
  employees to carpool and transit ridership, and leverage adjacent future Gravel Pit development to include frequent, quality, and
  comprehensive transit service.

 Establish Union Park Transit Hub: UTA seeks to create a place in the Union Park area to link bus routes. Collaborate with UTA to create
  an accessible multi-modal hub built to support the convergence of different routes and modes.

 Establish Gravel Pit/Wasatch Canyon Base Hub: Create a top-quality bus and multi-modal transportation hub that links valley and
  mountain service. These improvements should provide a base for transit in both canyons, and transform the Gravel Pit into an intensive
  regional destination.

 Enhance Fort Union Corridor Transit: Leverage the planned intensified land use along the corridor with increased transit ridership
  through greater frequency and enhance passenger amenities.

 Consider Local Public-private Partnership Shuttle and Micro transit Opportunities: Explore the possibility of operating a shuttle in
  partnership with UTA and/or a private entity to link core Cottonwood Heights activity centers.

 Improve transit access: Study ¼ or ½ mile “walk-sheds” around transit stops, connect bike routes, and identify key barriers and
  shortcomings that limit access at key transit stops.

                                                                                             DRAFT CHAPTER 4: TRANSPORTATION                53
     Transportation Goals
     GOAL 7: IMPROVE MULTI-MODAL ACCESS TO AND WITHIN ACTIVITY CENTERS.

     STRATEGIES

      Prioritize a multi-modal environment in the Town Center, building on the recommendations contained in the Town Center Traffic
       Study.

      Instill walkable principles to the degree that is possible and appropriate: These should include breaking the centers down into small
       blocks, providing fully connected streets and paths, investing in high-quality pedestrian environments, designing buildings that engage
       with the street, and creating slow traffic environments where vehicles and pedestrians can safely converge. While the size, users, types,
       and contexts of these centers are different, they can all embody these principles in a responsive manner.

      Treat major street corridors differently within activity centers: Focus on establishing slower environments with frequent pedestrian
       crossings, human-scale design, and a focus on public space.

      Meet the anticipated increased travel demand at the Gravel Pit in a manner that is sustainable and limits local impacts.

      Leverage Wasatch Canyons activity for active transportation in centers: Building upon the Wasatch Boulevard Master Plan,
       implement enhancements that benefit and attract recreation seekers in the Wasatch Canyons to activity centers.




54   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
Transportation Goals
GOAL 8: ENHANCE LIVABILITY IN                                     GOAL 9: INCORPORATE EMERGING TRENDS
NEIGHBORHOODS.                                                    IN MOBILITY.

STRATEGIES                                                        STRATEGIES

 Create ‘slow environment’ neighborhoods that also maintain       Manage scooters safely, directing users and companies to use
  good street connectivity.                                         the street, not sidewalks.

 Connect neighborhoods to one another and to major streets        Integrate ride share: Look for opportunities to design spaces
  in a manner that balances with easy access with safety and        and places for ride-share pickup and drop-off at activity centers
  livability.                                                       such as the Town Center.

 Manage on-street parking in a manner that is appropriate to      Understand and appropriately incorporate automated
  need, demand, supply, and the specific neighborhood context.      vehicles into local planning and policy: Stay current on
                                                                    advances in automated vehicles, understand how they will fit
 Connect new development to the existing street and pathway
                                                                    into the local transportation network, and how they can support
  network in ways that respect and support neighborhood
                                                                    future visions and goals for the City.
  livability.

 Transportation choice: Provide all neighborhoods with a range
  of transportation options.




                                                                                       DRAFT CHAPTER 4: TRANSPORTATION              55
     Transportation Goals
     GOAL 10: ENHANCE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS’ PLACE IN THE LARGER REGION, INCLUDING
     MOUNTAIN TRANSPORTATION.

     STRATEGIES

      I-215 interchanges: Monitor the levels of service at each of these interchanges and collaborate with UDOT on strategies to maintain and
       enhance their function in balance with other modes.

      Strategic transit hub improvements: Improve the levels of transit service in Cottonwood Heights, benefiting both planned transit/
       mobility hubs and community access to them. Transit service to the Union Park hub can be leveraged and enhanced by pulling together
       bus service in the area into a single convenient place, while the Gravel Pit hub can be leveraged to improve service to the surrounding
       intensive development (i.e., increasing bus service such as an extension of Route 4 to the University of Utah and downtown Salt Lake
       City).

      Get the most out of key street and pathway links to neighboring jurisdictions: The few connections that exist to neighboring cities are
       critical for regional and local function and sustainability. These connections are located primarily along major streets, although there
       are some existing and potential connections for trail corridors that are equally important. The City should continue to collaborate with
       neighboring local governments and Salt Lake County to coordinate improvements along these corridors, particularly for transit and active
       transportation.

      Collaborate with regional partners to shape a Wasatch Canyons transportation network that benefits and complements Cottonwood
       Heights: Promote canyons transit ridership with origins that are spread throughout the valley. Mitigate the negative impacts of canyons
       transportation such as cut-through traffic, traffic blockages at peak times, and mass parking needs. Create multi-modal, recreational,
       accessible public frontage along the Wasatch edge, helping to extend the benefits of the centers beyond the confines of the established
       nodes.




56   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
Transportation Action Items
Implementation should be multi-pronged as part of City-led or City-partnered capital projects in priority areas such as activity centers and
along major corridors. A more reactive approach should apply for other implementation projects, focused on private-sector investments to
meet the General Plan vision. The following are a list of key actions items:

 Confirm and implement the Transportation Master Plan.                   Identify and pilot bicycle byway routes to link residents to
                                                                           Cottonwood Heights destinations.
 Implement adopted corridor master plans and identify
  additional master plans to be completed.                                Consider a neighborhood transportation enhancement program
                                                                           to address resident concerns and proactively promote projects
 Create a safe and comfortable multi-modal environment
                                                                           that improve livability.
  for the Town Center with a mix of the proactive and reactive
  approaches.                                                             Work with regional and private sector partners on the
                                                                           implementation of new and emerging transportation
 Create a safe and comfortable multi-modal environment for
                                                                           enhancement ideas such as mobility hubs, protected bike
  the Gravel Pit area with a mix of the proactive and reactive
                                                                           facilities, and other mobility innovations.
  approaches.

 Proactively identify and target traffic safety “hot spots” with
  cost-effective solutions throughout Cottonwood Heights.

 Collaborate with UTA on the implementation of near-term,
  mid-term and long-term transit improvements throughout
  Cottonwood Heights.

 Continue to collaborate with regional partners on the
  implementation of Wasatch Canyon transportation network
  improvements, ensuring the results are beneficial to
  Cottonwood Heights.




                                                                                               DRAFT CHAPTER 4: TRANSPORTATION                 57
58   This page intentionally left blank
CHAPTER 5
ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
Located in a mature, built-out area of the Salt Lake Valley,           An effective economic development strategy balances the
Cottonwood Heights is positioned to navigate significant regional      introduction of new employment, housing, retail, and hospitality
growth over the coming decades, particularly in the southern and       opportunities with the preservation of the City’s unique identity.
western parts of the valley. This growth presents both opportunities   By strategically guiding development that reflects the community’s
and challenges for the community. Cottonwood Heights evolved           goals, Cottonwood Heights can build a resilient local economy that
from a pioneer farming settlement into a suburban community            sustains and enhances service levels over time. Proactive planning
characterized primarily by single-family neighborhoods, with           allows the City to capitalize on regional growth, attract visitors,
commercial areas oriented around office, retail, and highway access.   and strengthen overall quality of life, all while ensuring that new
Its location at the mouth of Big and Little Cottonwood Canyons         commercial and residential development complements the existing
makes the area especially attractive for new development, though it    character of the community and meets the needs of current and
also presents traffic and access challenges. With available property   future residents.
limited, there is increasing pressure to redevelop existing areas to
accommodate rising demand for housing, employment, and other
types of development. To maintain fiscal stability and high-quality
services, the City must thoughtfully plan for economic development
that aligns with its vision while supporting local needs and
preserving the community’s character.


                                                                                   DRAFT CHAPTER 5: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT                     59
     Existing                                                            COMMUNITY INSIGHTS
     Conditions                                                          ECONOMIC CHALLENGES &
                                                                         OPPORTUNITIES
     The largest commercial areas within the city are concentrated       Community members, through surveys and public engagement,
     along the major regional roadways including I-215, Fort Union       have voiced concerns about the impacts of regional growth
     Boulevard, Wasatch Boulevard and to a lesser extent, Bengal         on neighborhoods, commercial areas, and the transportation
     Boulevard and Highland Drive. Economic activity is primarily        network. Cottonwood Heights’ location as a gateway to two of the
     generated by neighborhood, community, and regional retail           region’s premier recreational canyons and as a connector to major
     areas as well as significant suburban office developments.          employment centers places additional demand on its infrastructure.
     The majority of the remaining land consists of low-density          As the valley’s population grows, more people will use the canyons
     residential developments.                                           for recreation, increasing traffic and the strain on local roads. At the
                                                                         same time, this growth presents opportunities for the community

     MUNICIPAL                                                           to attract more shoppers, diners, and visitors. City services will
                                                                         experience these impacts without a comparable increase in revenue

     FINANCES                                                            from new housing, employment centers, or retail and restaurant
                                                                         development, highlighting the need for thoughtful planning to
                                                                         balance growth, infrastructure, and economic opportunity.
     Cottonwood Heights provides governmental services such as
           police, fire, public works, administration, and planning      With these challenges also comes unique economic opportunities.
                 and zoning. These services are funded by a variety      Residents have advocated for a more walkable, connected
                      of revenue streams, with property and sales        community with a “City Center” that serves as the “heart” of the
                        taxes being the two largest. Together, these     community. This vision for a more vibrant, pedestrian-friendly
                          two sources account for over two-thirds        environment aligns with the potential to leverage the City’s strategic
                           of the City’s revenue, which is used to       location to attract more shoppers and patrons. These insights
                            provide services to residents, businesses,   directly inform the City’s economic development goals, which aim
                            and visitors.                                to balance business growth with the preservation of neighborhood
                                                                         character and quality of life.




60   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
REVENUE CONSIDERATIONS                                                                   OPTIONS FOR LEVERAGING THE CITY’S
                                                                                         ECONOMIC POTENTIAL
Utah state law limits the growth of a city’s property tax revenue from existing          The addition of households to Cottonwood
properties. While individual property values may increase, the overall tax revenue       Heights could enhance its overall economic
from these properties is adjusted, or “equalized,” to remain constant from year          performance by increasing purchasing power
to year. The only way for the City to increase property tax revenue is through           for traditional retail and sales taxes from online
new investment or by adopting a tax rate increase. This means the City does not          sales. The Wasatch Front Regional Council
directly benefit from rising individual property values, even if homeowners pay          projects the City could add over 950 new
more in taxes.                                                                           residents by 2040, requiring approximately
Between 2017 and 2021, the City saw property tax revenues increase by 5%                 380 new dwelling units. The City may consider
annually, a direct result of new residential and commercial investment. Over the         accommodating a higher growth rate, similar
same period, sales tax revenue grew by 9% annually, driven by more customers             to the Salt Lake County average, which could
visiting local stores and restaurants, including those from outside the community.       result in a population increase of nearly 6,800
Online shopping has also become a significant revenue source. Due to Utah’s sales        residents by 2040. This level of growth could
tax distribution formula, where 50% is based on the point of sale, purchases made        help the City maintain its share of the statewide
from home directly benefit the City.                                                     sales tax population pool, and “capturing” more
                                                                                         households from other areas of the county may
                                                                                         also reduce pass-through traffic while increasing
                                                                                         City revenues to offset the impacts of regional
                                                                                         growth.




                                                                                     DRAFT CHAPTER 5: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT                61
     RETAIL AREAS                                                             OFFICE & EMPLOYMENT AREAS
     To capitalize on the significant spending power of its high-income       Cottonwood Heights has two primary office submarkets:
     households, Cottonwood Heights could focus on developing                 Cottonwood and Union Park. These areas contain approximately 2.4
     modern, high-quality retail centers. By creating destinations with       million square feet of office space, a notable portion of the Salt Lake
     strong design, shared public spaces, and experiential retail, the City   Metro market. The Cottonwood submarket is particularly strong,
     can capture a portion of the spending that currently “leaks” to other    consistently commanding higher lease rates than the downtown
     jurisdictions. This strategic approach would address the unmet           Salt Lake City market.
     spending potential by providing a compelling local alternative.
                                                                              The office market experienced unprecedented pressure during the
     A conservative estimate suggests that a 30% capture rate is a
                                                                              COVID-19 pandemic, leading to a period of negative net absorption
     reasonable goal for the City to capture spending currently “leaking”
                                                                              for the first time in over a decade. However, the market has proven
     to other communities. This rate is lower than in more isolated areas
                                                                              to be resilient, with the local economy leading the nation in job
     due to the ease of accessing other regional commercial centers. The
                                                                              growth and attracting tenant migration from other areas. The
     actual capture rate will be influenced by the location, product mix,
                                                                              primary challenge to the continued growth of the Cottonwood and
     and quality of new retail.
                                                                              Union Park submarkets is the limited availability of land for new
     The City’s existing retail is concentrated along major regional          development. This scarcity of space presents an opportunity for
     corridors, particularly Fort Union Boulevard, which provides access      innovative redevelopment that leverages existing assets.
     to several key north-south highways and features several regional
     retail areas due to its high traffic volume. Bengal Boulevard also       MARKET PROJECTIONS
     serves as a secondary retail corridor, featuring a grocery-anchored
                                                                              Although the real estate and development market is always subject
     community shopping center.
                                                                              to market forces, the long-term prospects for residential and
     Wasatch Boulevard is a primary gateway to four of Utah’s premier         office growth in Cottonwood Heights remain strong. The City can
     ski resorts. While a significant road, it has seen limited commercial    capture new development by proactively identifying and making
     development, with a small specialty retail area at the mouth of Big      developable property available. Maintaining and improving the
     Cottonwood Canyon. This corridor, especially the gravel pit area,        competitive position of its retail market hinges on the community’s
     represents a major opportunity for new commercial development.           ability to respond to changing market forces and create the types of
     To meet future retail demand, the City can focus on improving            retail areas that will attract both new investment and shoppers.
     regional competitiveness and adding new retail options.




62   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
A Vision for the Future
GROWING SMART
Cottonwood Heights has a significant opportunity to grow its economic base by embracing regional growth trends. By maintaining its
current proportion of Salt Lake County’s population and jobs, the City can add new housing and office space. To achieve this, the City is
targeting the Town Center, Gravel Pit, and Fort Union areas for redevelopment (see Chapter 2). These locations offer prime opportunities
for creating mixed-use environments that attract investment and provide a “park-once” experience for visitors. Although the retail market is
subject to changing trends, there is a strong demand for specific types of retail, such as experiential or entertainment-based venues and well-
designed mixed-use centers. By creating a unique, outdoor retail destination for brands catering to outdoor enthusiasts, with direct access to
the nearby Wasatch Canyons, the City can attract a higher caliber of retail development while supporting the local economy.




Visual inspiration for the City’s strategic economic growth.


                                                                                      DRAFT CHAPTER 5: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT                   63
     Economic Development Goals
     GOAL 1: PROMOTE STRATEGIC ECONOMIC                                    GOAL 2: ENHANCE KEY COMMERCIAL
     DEVELOPMENT.                                                          CORRIDORS & ACTIVITY CENTERS

     STRATEGIES                                                            STRATEGIES

      Strategically guide new development to balance the                   Revitalize the Town Center by transforming the Fort Union/2300
       introduction of employment, housing, retail, and hospitality with     East area into a walkable, mixed-use center.
       the preservation of the city’s unique identity.
                                                                            Attract and develop modern, high-quality retail centers, with a
      Diversify the tax base by pursuing new residential and                focus on experiential and entertainment-based retail, to capture
       commercial development to ensure a stable financial foundation        local spending that is currently “leaking” to other communities.
       for city services.
                                                                            Guide development along major corridors, including Fort Union
      Leverage the city’s strategic location to accommodate growth          and Wasatch Boulevards, to ensure they remain competitive and
       that maintains its share of the statewide population and              responsive to evolving market trends.
       sales tax base, helping to offset the fiscal impacts of regional
       expansion




64   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
Economic Development Goals
GOAL 3: LEVERAGE THE CITY’S UNIQUE                                     GOAL 4: LEVERAGE REGIONAL GROWTH FOR
LOCATION                                                               LOCAL ECONOMIC RESILIENCE

STRATEGIES                                                             STRATEGIES

 Develop a Wasatch Canyons Hub by creating a unique                    Properly plan for regional growth to capture a higher
  destination at the gravel pit site, attracting high-caliber retail     percentage of regional investment and minimize “pass-through”
  and businesses that complement the canyons’ recreational               traffic.
  amenities.                                                            Reposition aging commercial areas into vibrant, mixed-use, and
 Address the limited availability of land for new office                walkable centers to take advantage of existing and planned
  development by leveraging existing assets and encouraging              investments in transportation, transit, and trails.
  innovative redevelopment in the Cottonwood and Union Park             Identify specific areas to accommodate projected growth in
  submarkets to sustain job growth.                                      population and employment, concentrating density in areas with
 Reinforce regional connectivity by integrating economic                adequate infrastructure.
  development plans for major corridors with the regional               Create a vibrant tourist destination at the gravel pit site with
  transportation network to attract visitors and commerce from           amenities that serve both residents and visitors, further boosting
  throughout the Salt Lake Valley.                                       the local economy.

                                                                        Support a mix of uses in traditionally commercial centers to
                                                                         reduce the need for cars and increase the viability of retail in the
                                                                         area.




                                                                                   DRAFT CHAPTER 5: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT                    65
66   This page intentionally left blank
CHAPTER 6
WATER USE &
PRESERVATION
Utah is one of the driest states in the nation. This reality, coupled
with years of severe drought and explosive population growth, has
made the preservation of water resources a high priority for Utah’s
local governments, state leaders, water providers, and the public.
Recognizing planning’s critical role in water management, the state
adopted S.B. 110: Water as Part of the General Plan in 2022. This
new mandate requires Cottonwood Heights to address the impacts
of land use planning on water use, aiming towards a future in
which growth and development is supported by an adequate water
supply.




                                                                        DRAFT CHAPTER 6: WATER USE & PRESERVATION   67
     Existing                                                                             Bear River

     Conditions
                                                                                            Basin



     REGIONAL
     WATERSHEDS                                                 Great
     The Jordan River Basin, encompassing most of Salt           Salt
     Lake County, is Utah’s most populous basin. The use of     Lake
     the basin’s water resources has been fundamental to
     the region’s development, providing its residents with                                                      Weber
     diverse employment and recreational opportunities,                                                          Basin
     and enabling a high quality of life.

     The watersheds that feed the Jordan River are critically




                                                                                            Cottonwood Heights
     important as a drinking water source for the County.
     These drainage basins, all located within Salt Lake
     County, contribute surface waters that either flow
     directly into the Great Salt Lake or recharge the
     basin’s groundwater. As one of the many communities
     benefiting from these resources, Cottonwood Heights
     is committed to supporting the long-term health of
                                                                                 Jordan
     the watershed.
                                                                                  River
                                                                                  Basin
                                                                   West Desert
                                                                     Basin

                                                                                      Utah Lake
68   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT                              Basin
WATER USE REDUCTION GOALS
In 2018, the Utah Division of Water Resources gathered public input and worked
with state agencies and water providers to develop the Utah Regional M&I Water
Conservation Goals Report. The report outlines recommended water conservation goals
for nine regions, including a 10.95% outdoor water use reduction by 2030 for the Salt
Lake Region. According to the Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities (SLCDPU),
Cottonwood Heights’ main water provider, it is not enough to meet the new regional
goals and more aggressive goals will be important both to keep pace with long-term
supply plans and to model good water resource stewardship. Both the state’s regional
goal and SLCDPU’s goals are shown in Figure 6.1. Note that SLCDPU was in the process
of updating its Water Conservation Plan during the development of this water element,
and the most current plan should be considered when available. Conservation efforts
made by Cottonwood Heights will directly support both regional and SLCDPU targets.



Figure 6.1 – Water Reduction Goals: Salt Lake Region & SLCDPU



                            210                                               Salt Lake Region
Gallons Per Capita (gpcd)
                                       206
                                                                              SLCDPU

                                                                   187

                            180                                    183
                                                                                          169

                                                                                          160

                            150
                                  2020 Baseline                   2030          Long Term (≈2060)

                                                 SLCDPU Overall Targets
                                    Indoor Use          50 gpd/person             14.2% reduction
                                   Outdoor Use       24’ average irrigation       14.6% reduction


                                                 DRAFT CHAPTER 6: WATER USE & PRESERVATION          69
     LOCAL WATER                                   Map 6.1 – Water Provider Service Areas (approximate)


     SYSTEMS
     Cottonwood Heights is not a water
     provider and relies primarily on the Salt
     Lake City Department of Public Utilities
     (SLCDPU) for its drinking water supply,
     with a smaller portion of the City served
     by the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy
     District (JVWCD). Because secondary
     water is not currently available, culinary
     water is used for outdoor irrigation,
     including lawns and other landscaping.
     In compliance with S.B. 110, the City met
     with both public water systems to discuss
     long-term water supply and distribution
     planning.

     Conversations also addressed key
     elements of each provider’s Water
     Conservation Plan as they relate to
     Cottonwood Heights, including data on
     current water use and projected demand,
     efforts to support the Great Salt Lake, and
     recommended goals, policies, or programs
     the City could adopt to enhance water
     conservation. A summary of key takeaways
     from those conversations follows.

                                                           SLCDPU
                                                            JVWCD


70   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
SALT LAKE CITY DEPARTMENT OF                                           JORDAN VALLEY WATER
PUBLIC UTILITIES (SLCDPU)                                              CONSERVANCY DISTRICT (JVWCD)
Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities (SLCDPU) is the retail   Based on the number of Cottonwood Heights address points within
water provider for all of Salt Lake City and portions of Millcreek,    its service area, JVWCD provides drinking water to approximately
Cottonwood Heights, Holladay, Murray, Midvale, and South Salt          10% of the City. Of those addresses, 47% are residential and 44%
Lake. Within Cottonwood Heights, SLCDPU supplies water to              are commercial. The Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District
approximately 90% of address points. Based on address types,           (JVWCD) serves a large portion of Union Park Regional Center
the majority of water use is residential (about 89%), followed by      and a smaller area south of Creek Road near Oakdale Elementary.
commercial use at roughly 6%.                                          Given that the service area includes the Regional Center, the high
                                                                       proportion of commercial addresses is expected.
TAKEAWAYS FROM SLCDPU
                                                                       TAKEAWAYS FROM JVWCD
 Shared Conservation Leadership: SLCDPU’s Water
  Conservation Manager also serves, by extension, as Cottonwood         Potential Service Transfer: The area currently served by
  Heights’ Water Conservation Manager. This presents a strong            JVWCD may be transferred to Salt Lake City Public Utilities in the
  opportunity for partnership, particularly around program               future. This would standardize water provision across the City
  promotion and public outreach. The current manager brings              but could result in higher water rates due to SLCDPU’s pricing
  valuable marketing and communication strategies to the table.          structure.

 Desire for Formalized Communication: The Water                        Updated Water Efficiency Standards: JVWCD emphasized
  Conservation Manager expressed a desire to formalize                   the importance of strong water efficiency standards for
  communication between SLCDPU and Cottonwood Heights                    conservation. They plan to update their recommended
  to strengthen collaboration. She emphasized the importance             standards, including revised turf limits for commercial
  of direct engagement and mutual support between cities and             properties, and encourage cities to adopt them
  SLCDPU, noting that layers of hierarchy can sometimes make
                                                                        Enforceable Requirements: Although the area served by
  coordination more difficult.
                                                                         JVWCD appears to be largely built-out, the District is able to
 Upcoming Conservation Plan Update: SLCDPU is in the                    enforce water efficiency standards by requiring landscaping
  process of updating its Water Conservation Plan (2020). Once           to meet specific criteria before approving any new water
  adopted, this updated plan will serve as a valuable resource for       connections.
  Cottonwood Heights and other partner cities.




                                                                                 DRAFT CHAPTER 6: WATER USE & PRESERVATION                  71
                                             TAKEAWAYS FROM JVWCD (CONTINUED)

                                              JVWCD as a Resource: While JVWCD supplies water to only
                                               a small portion of Cottonwood Heights, it remains a valuable
                                               resource and partner in promoting water efficiency through
                                               its standards, conservation programs, and public education
                                               initiatives.

                                              Focus on Existing Development: Given the City’s mostly
                                               built-out status, JVWCD recommended focusing on water
                                               conservation efforts for existing properties. Suggestions
                                               included:


                                                •   Making it easier for residents to replace turf with water-wise
                                                    landscaping.

                                                •   Providing additional local funding for landscape conversion
                                                    incentives (e.g., a match that increases rebate amounts per
                                                    square foot).

                                                •   Promoting landscape education, including contractor
                                                    certifications, Localscapes classes, and resources like QWEL.
                                                    net. The City’s advocacy efforts can support this outreach.

                                             CONCLUSION

                                             Even though Cottonwood Heights does not operate its own water
                                             utility, the City plays a powerful role in shaping local water use
                                             through the tools it does control—particularly in land use planning
                                             and policy. The City’s General Plan, zoning code, and development
                                             standards establish the physical layout of the community and
                                             directly influence how much water is needed now and in the future.




72   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS GENERAL PLAN DRAFT
Land Use & Water
SHAPING WATER USE & DEMAND
Water demand is intrinsically linked to land use. As outlined in Chapter 2: Land Use, Cottonwood Heights is primarily made up of low-
density residential neighborhoods, with pockets of higher-density and commercial development along major corridors. Lower-density
areas with larger lots and lawns tend to use significantly more water than higher-density areas with smaller lots and limited irrigation. While
commercial areas generally consume less water per acre than low-density housing, water-intensive uses like restaurants, car washes, and
heavily landscaped properties can drive up demand. With little undeveloped land remaining, Cottonwood Heights is transitioning to infill and
redevelopment—a shift that can promote more efficient water use when guided by smart growth and water-conscious planning.




Water-conscious land use inspirational imagery.


                                                                                   DRAFT CHAPTER 6: WATER USE & PRESERVATION                  73
     A SUSTAINABLE WATER                                                                     A NOTE ON WATERSHED
                                                                                             HEALTH
     FUTURE                                                                                  A healthy watershed is essential to quality of
                                                                                             life, public health, water quality, and long-
     Through proactive planning, Cottonwood Heights aims for a future characterized
                                                                                             term economic resilience. In Cottonwood
     by vibrant Activity Centers, along with thoughtful infill and redevelopment,
                                                                                             Heights, large areas of natural open space
     ensuring the preservation of its natural beauty and the quality of its
                                                                                             are not major water users, but they play a
     neighborhoods. The City will focus on transforming existing commercial areas,
                                                                                             critical role in supporting watershed health,
     like Union Park and Old Mill Corporate Centers, into vibrant, mixed-use Activity
                                                                                             aiding groundwater recharge, and maintaining
     Centers which offer diverse commercial, retail, and cultural services, prioritizing
                                                                                             ecological balance. Resilient watershed planning
     pedestrian and transit accessibility. This strategic vision will strengthen the local
                                                                                             helps reduce the impacts of development
     economy while seamlessly integrating natural open spaces. A key element of this
                                                                                             through strategies such as mapping sensitive
     future will be to ensure that evolving land use patterns continue to support a
                                                                                             areas, managing stormwater runoff, establishing
     sustainable water future.
                                                                                             stream buffer standards, and encouraging
                                                                                             regional collaboration.
     FUTURE FORECAST
                                                                                             Big and Little Cottonwood Creeks, which flow
     The Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities (SLCDPU) analyzed annual water        through the City, are important parts of the
     production requirements against its 2060 projected supply. The analysis concluded       Jordan River Basin, one of five major watersheds
     that if the recommended supply planning scenario is met by the end of the               that drain into the Great Salt Lake. Protecting
     planning window, current and anticipated future supplies are sufficient for long        these waterways and their surrounding
     term projected system demands. However, failing to meet the conservation goals          landscapes is vital for preserving the lake’s
     could result in an inadequate water supply for projected demands. See “Regional         health, which is increasingly threatened by
     Goals” above for goal information. As a water customer, Cottonwood Heights              falling water levels. These efforts also support air
     plays a key role in helping SLCDPU meet these conservation goals through local          quality, outdoor recreation, and the integrity of
     policies that reduce water demand. Coordinated efforts between the City and             both natural and built environments.
     SLCDPU will be critical to ensuring long-term water reliability across the region.




74   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
Reducing Water Waste
To support sustainable growth and water demand, Cottonwood Heights can apply strategies that reduce wasteful water use practices
through the planning, zoning, and regulatory tools it administers. By setting clear water efficiency standards, pursuing a smart growth
approach, and enhancing public education and outreach, the City can reduce water use across all land uses, even without directly
managing water delivery. The following section highlights both current and recommended conservation policies and practices for
Cottonwood Heights.


CONSERVATION POLICIES & PRACTICES
1. OUTDOOR STANDARDS                                       2. INDOOR STANDARDS
Water efficient landscaping standards play a key           Modern appliances and plumbing fixtures are significantly more efficient
role in conserving water, enhancing neighborhood           than older models, making upgrades to high-efficiency toilets, faucets, and
character, and supporting long-term sustainability.        showerheads among the most cost-effective water conservation strategies. In
Cottonwood Heights encourages water-efficient              addition to reducing water use per fixture, newer technologies also help minimize
landscaping citywide through ordinances that               leaks. Utah has adopted statewide building, energy, and plumbing codes, but
emphasize drought-tolerant plants, smart irrigation        allows municipalities to go beyond these standards if local codes do not
practices, and the use of Localscapes landscape            conflict with the states. Local building, plumbing, and landscaping codes
design principles. Lawn is prohibited in park strips       can support water conservation by requiring efficient fixtures,
and discouraged on steep slopes and in narrow              water reuse systems, smart meters, submetering, rain
spaces, while inefficient practices like overspray and     sensors, automatic shutoffs, programmable irrigation, drip
runoff are strongly discouraged. Maintaining clear         systems, water harvesting, and limits on
standards for new development, including guidance          outdoor plumbing connections. When
and resources for retrofitting existing landscapes,        combined with restrictions on irrigated
will help the City manage growth responsibly while         landscaping and requirements for
reducing long-term water demand.                           efficient irrigation systems, these
                                                           measures can lead to substantial
                                                           reductions in water use.




                                                                                   DRAFT CHAPTER 6: WATER USE & PRESERVATION                   75
     3. WATER-SMART GROWTH                                               GROWING WATER-SMART: 3 BEST
                                                                         PRACTICES
     While efficient fixtures and water-wise landscaping are
     essential for conservation, land development patterns have          1. SUPPORT WATER CONSERVATION THROUGH SMARTER
     an equally important impact on water use. Unlike appliances         DEVELOPMENT PATTERNS
     or landscapes, development patterns are difficult to change
     once established. Cottonwood Heights’ commitment to                  Where appropriate, encourage compact, infill, smaller lots,
     smart growth can significantly reduce onsite water use, water         and mixed-use development to reduce water demand and
     infrastructure costs, variability in demand, and system-wide          increase infrastructure efficiency.
     water loss.
                                                                          Focus growth in areas already served by existing
     Smart growth principles, including compact development,               infrastructure to avoid costly system duplication and maximize
     infill, and infrastructure efficiency, directly support water         existing system efficiency.
     conservation. More compact neighborhoods require shorter
                                                                          Reinforce the maintenance and reinvestment in aging
     transmission systems, which are less prone to leaks and more
                                                                           infrastructure to reduce leaks and system-wide water loss.
     efficient to operate. Smaller lots reduce the amount of irrigated
     landscaping, helping to lower outdoor water demand. By
     focusing on development in areas already served by existing         2. INTEGRATE WATER-WISE PRACTICES INTO PLANNING
     infrastructure, the City can avoid duplicating systems and          TOOLS
     make better use of what’s already in place. Maintaining and          Use zoning, municipal code, and land development
     reinvesting in this infrastructure further improves overall           standards to embed water conservation principles into the built
     system performance and water efficiency.                              environment.
     Implementing smart growth requires comprehensive zoning,             Promote efficient indoor fixtures, smart irrigation systems,
     municipal code, and land development standards. These tools           and practical lawn areas during site design and construction
     enable the City to establish water-wise expectations at the time      approval.
     of construction, mandating elements like limited lawn areas,
     efficient fixtures, and smart irrigation systems. Beyond initial
                                                                         3. REINFORCE CONSERVATION POST-OCCUPANCY
     construction, ongoing conservation goals can be reinforced
     through post-occupancy standards, such as landscape                  Share landscape maintenance guidelines or educational
     maintenance guidelines or retrofit incentive programs.                resources to ensure long-term water efficiency.

                                                                          Offer or promote retrofit incentive programs to encourage
                                                                           upgrades in existing developments.



76   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
4. EDUCATION & OUTREACH                                                 5. PARTNERSHIPS & PROGRAMS
The support of community members and organizations is a critical        In 2019, the cities of Cottonwood Heights, Holladay, and Millcreek
component of any water conservation strategy. A list of current         signed an interlocal agreement to collaborate on sustainability
efforts and future opportunities include:                               initiatives. This partnership led to the adoption of the Interlocal
                                                                        Sustainability Action Plan (ISAP) in 2021, which now serves
 Utah Water Savers incentives and rebate programs for residents
                                                                        as Cottonwood Heights’ sustainability master plan. Water
  (see also Figure 6.2).
                                                                        use is addressed throughout the ISAP, particularly within the
 Distribution of subsidized rain barrels for residents in              Development, Landscaping, and Waste Management sections.
  association with Utah Rivers Council. SLC Public Utilities offers a
                                                                        In addition to regional collaboration, Cottonwood Heights supports
  similar program to customers
                                                                        water conservation through participation in state-led programs.
 Annual water-wise landscaping workshops in partnership with           Thanks to Cottonwood Heights’ water-efficient landscaping
  the Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities (SLCDPU) and        ordinance, residents are eligible to participate in Utah Water Savers
  Jordan Valley Water Conservation District (JVWCD).                    programs. Participation data for these programs is provided in
                                                                        Figure 6.2
 Support for resident tree planting efforts to provide shade,
  reduce ambient heat and prevent water loss
                                                                        Figure 6.2 – Utah Water Savers Program Participation
 Completion of the Mountview Park Pollinator Garden, which
  demonstrates water-wise landscape and irrigation design ideas

 Inclusion of the “Water Tip of the Month” in the City newsletter

 Annual reporting of conservation program participation

                                                                                                               141
                                                                                                        Toilet Rebate
                                                                                                         (since 2019)

                                                                                      484                                               217
                                                                        Smart Controller Rebate                          Turf Conversion Rebate
                                                                              (since 2018)                                     (since 2021)
                                                                        Cottonwood Heights program participation numbers based on available data.




                                                                                   DRAFT CHAPTER 6: WATER USE & PRESERVATION                        77
     Water Use & Preservation Goals
     GOAL 1: BECOME A WATER-WISE LEADER                                     GOAL 2: STRENGTHEN COLLABORATIVE
     & TRACK PROGRESS ON SUSTAINABILITY                                     EFFORTS.
     GOALS.
                                                                            STRATEGIES
     STRATEGIES
                                                                             Establish a structured communication process between
      Review implementation progress and measurable outcomes                 Cottonwood Heights and SLCDPU, such as regular coordination
       from the Interlocal Sustainability Action Plan to guide next steps     meetings or a standing liaison role, to ensure consistent
       and assess progress made.                                              updates, shared planning efforts, and improved responsiveness
                                                                              to mutual needs.
      Retrofit City facilities and parks with smart irrigation, low-flow
       fixtures, and drought-tolerant landscaping.                           Co-host water conservation workshops, community events, and
                                                                              outreach campaigns. Leverage SLCDPU’s communication tools
      Use the Town Center and Activity Centers as visible examples of        and expertise to engage residents in water-wise practices and
       water-wise design and green infrastructure.                            promote rebate or incentive programs available through Utah
      Require water-efficient standards for all new or renovated City-       Water Savers.
       led development projects.                                             In partnership with SLCDPU, identify a set of shared water
      Integrate educational signage into public spaces to highlight          conservation goals—grounded in the updated SLCDPU Water
       water-saving practices and engage the community.                       Conservation Plan—and commit to coordinated action toward
                                                                              achieving them. Use these goals to shape City initiatives, inform
                                                                              program priorities, and ensure alignment between local efforts
                                                                              and utility-led conservation strategies.




78   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
Water Use & Preservation Goals
GOAL 3: INTEGRATE WATER CONSERVATION INTO ALL STAGES OF THE LAND DEVELOPMENT
PROCESS.

STRATEGIES
 Implement comprehensive zoning, municipal codes, and                  Review and remove barriers to water conservation,
  land development standards that mandate water-efficient                avoiding redundant standards or incentives. Implement
  practices at the time of construction, including limited lawn          robust incentive programs, such as fee rebates, reductions,
  areas, efficient fixtures, and smart irrigation systems. Reinforce     or waivers for developers adopting water conservation
  conservation through post-occupancy standards like landscape           measures, and pair these with procedural benefits like
  maintenance guidelines.                                                expedited permitting.

 Utilize tools such as overlay zoning to clearly define and protect    Develop and enforce post-occupancy standards that
  areas designated for environmental conservation while guiding          encourage ongoing water efficiency, including requirements
  urban growth into appropriate, water-conscious zones.                  for post-occupancy documentation related to water-saving
                                                                         practices.
 Actively promote and incentivize infill development to optimize
  existing infrastructure, reduce sprawl, and minimize new water        Strengthen Water Adequacy in Subdivision Regulations:
  infrastructure demands.
                                                                          •   Draft a clear statement of purpose and intent for
 Plan for and incorporate green infrastructure solutions
                                                                              subdivision regulations that explicitly includes water
  (e.g., permeable surfaces, rain gardens, bioswales) within
                                                                              conservation and efficiency.
  development projects to manage stormwater, recharge
  groundwater, and reduce reliance on potable water for                   •   Require documentation of water supply adequacy in
  irrigation.                                                                 preliminary plat applications.
 Integrate the findings and goals of this chapter with land use,         •   Mandate referral of applications to relevant water
  transportation, recreation and other elements to ensure water               agencies for review and approval.
  conservation is uniformly addressed as part of the design and
  implementation of future neighborhoods, districts, roadways             •   Withhold final plat approval until confirmation of
  and infrastructure projects.                                                adequate and sustainable water supply is received.



                                                                                DRAFT CHAPTER 6: WATER USE & PRESERVATION              79
80   This page intentionally left blank
CHAPTER 7
RECREATION
To address citywide needs and ensure more equitable access            This General Plan chapter reinforces and complements the 2021
to recreation, Cottonwood Heights adopted the Parks, Trails,          Master Plan. Rather than presenting a new direction, it serves as an
and Open Space Master Plan in 2021. This plan evaluated the           addendum—aligning neighborhood-focused improvements with
condition, distribution, and accessibility of existing recreational   broader citywide recreational goals. Together, the two documents
assets and proposed a series of enhancements aimed at improving       work to ensure that recreation in Cottonwood Heights continues to
neighborhood-level access throughout the City.                        serve residents equitably while celebrating the City’s unique setting
                                                                      between the canyons.




                                                                                                  DRAFT CHAPTER 7: RECREATION                 81
     Introduction & Overview
     Recreation is a core part of Cottonwood Heights’ identity as “The          Beyond its proximity to mountain recreation, Cottonwood Heights
     City Between the Canyons.” Its unique location serves as a gateway         also offers a variety of traditional amenities. These include ten
     to a wide range of outdoor activities, including skiing, hiking, biking,   developed parks, natural open spaces, multiple trails, and the
     trail-running, and rock climbing. While the iconic Big Cottonwood          Cottonwood Heights Recreation Center. While these amenities
     and Little Cottonwood Canyons define the City’s northern and               are distributed across the City, access to them varies between
     southern edges, several smaller Wasatch Mountain canyons and               neighborhoods, highlighting the need for more equitable access
     foothill areas along the eastern boundary provide additional, finer-       to recreational resources. The recreational system is further
     grained recreational opportunities that contribute to the City’s           complicated by management responsibilities spread across multiple
     distinct character.                                                        entities, including the City of Cottonwood Heights, the Cottonwood
                                                                                Heights Parks and Recreation Service Area, Salt Lake County Parks
                                                                                and Recreation, and the U.S. Forest Service.




82   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS GENERAL PLAN DRAFT
Existing Conditions                                                                                  Map 7.1 – Canyon Recreation


                                                                                                            1
In addition to its canyon and foothill access, Cottonwood Heights offers a range of
recreational amenities, including the Cottonwood Heights Recreation Center, ten developed
parks, an expanding trail network, and several natural open spaces. While these amenities
contribute to the City’s reputation for high-quality recreation, their distribution is uneven,
leaving some neighborhoods without convenient access. This chapter aims to address
that imbalance by not only maintaining the City’s valued amenities but also improving
connectivity so that all neighborhoods can benefit from them.


NATURAL OPEN SPACE &                                                                                                           2

CANYONS
                                                                                                                               3
Cottonwood Heights is uniquely positioned along the western foothills of the Wasatch
Mountains, bordered by dramatic canyons and crisscrossed by creeks and drainage
corridors. These natural features provide not only extraordinary recreation opportunities,
but also essential ecological services, scenic value, and a strong sense of place. Together, the
City’s canyons, creeks, foothills, and undeveloped lands form a natural open space network
that enhances community health, environmental resilience, and quality of life.

The preservation and thoughtful integration of these lands into the City’s overall recreation
and land use framework is a top community priority—consistently affirmed through public
feedback, surveys, and long-standing local values. This section outlines the key elements                             4
of Cottonwood Heights’ open space system, including the City’s most prominent canyons,
ecological functions, and future needs for connectivity and coordination.

CANYONS
The foothills and canyons along the City’s eastern edge offer world-class outdoor
experiences that define Cottonwood Heights’ identity as “The City Between the Canyons.”
Each canyon plays a distinct role in the City’s recreational landscape (Map 7.1).
                                                                                                                  5
                                                                                                   DRAFT CHAPTER 7: RECREATION     83
     1. HEUGHS CANYON                                                         4. DEAF SMITH CANYON

     Heughs Canyon is technically accessed from Holladay City, adjacent       Deaf Smith Canyon, situated just north of Little Cottonwood
     to the Cottonwood Heights boundary. The roughly 3-mile out-and-          Canyon, is a 2.6-mile canyon known for its shaded paths, scenic
     back trail gains over 1,200 feet in elevation, making it a moderately    creek crossings, and tranquil, natural setting. Because access begins
     strenuous hike. Notable features include a seasonal spring and           on private property, the trail’s public use is dependent on ongoing
     waterfalls that are especially dramatic during spring runoff.            agreements between landowners, the City, and public partners.
     However, the lack of a formal trailhead or designated parking area       Visitors are encouraged to stay on the designated trail and respect
     limits accessibility compared to other canyons in the region.            all posted regulations to ensure continued access.

     2. BIG COTTONWOOD CANYON                                                 5. LITTLE COTTONWOOD CANYON

     Big Cottonwood Canyon is one of Utah’s—and the Intermountain             Little Cottonwood Canyon is another iconic Wasatch Front
     West’s—premier outdoor destinations. While some runners and              destination, celebrated for its glacially carved granite peaks,
     cyclists use the 15-mile paved canyon road, most visitors access it      stunning alpine vistas, and rich historical significance. The canyon
     for its abundant trailheads, including those leading to Donut Falls,     mouth lies at the intersection of Wasatch Boulevard and State Route
     Lake Blanche, Gobblers Knob, Desolation Lake, Silver Lake, and the       210 in Cottonwood Heights, serving as the gateway to nearly 20
     Brighton Lakes. The canyon also offers numerous rock climbing            miles of scenic roadway that leads to Snowbird and Alta ski resorts.
     routes, picnic areas, campgrounds, and is home to both Solitude          The lower canyon is home to the historic granite quarries used
     and Brighton ski resorts.                                                in the construction of the Salt Lake Temple and LDS Conference
                                                                              Center. Ongoing regional conversations with UTA and other
     3. FERGUSON CANYON
                                                                              partners continue to explore public transportation solutions and
     Located just south of Big Cottonwood Canyon, Ferguson Canyon             improved access to both Little and Big Cottonwood Canyons.
     features a steep and scenic 3.3-mile out-and-back trail with roughly
     4,000 feet of elevation gain. The lower section is popular with hikers
     and climbers, while the upper trail—less frequently used—leads
     to a high meadow and connects ambitious hikers to the summit
     of Storm Mountain or the ridgeline leading to Twin Peaks. Recent
     improvements, including a formalized trailhead and parking, have
     enhanced access for residents and visitors alike.




84   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
CANYON ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT
COORDINATION
Cottonwood Heights is uniquely positioned at the base of several
Wasatch canyons, offering residents immediate access to world-
class outdoor recreation. However, long-term access to these
canyons remains complex, involving overlapping jurisdictions and
responsibilities shared among the U.S. Forest Service, Salt Lake
County Parks and Recreation, Cottonwood Heights City, and private
landowners.

To ensure continued and improved access, the City should maintain
active coordination with these partners. Collaborative efforts—like
those recently undertaken at Ferguson Canyon to establish a formal
trailhead and parking—demonstrate the effectiveness of multi-
agency investment. Similar strategies should be pursued in other
areas where access is currently constrained or informal, including
Heughs and Deaf Smith Canyons.

In addition to improving canyon access, completing missing
sections of the Bonneville Shoreline Trail (BST) within Cottonwood
Heights should be a high priority. The BST represents a critical
regional asset, offering both recreational and alternative
transportation opportunities. Its completion would significantly
improve east-west and north-south trail connectivity within the City,
while linking Cottonwood Heights to broader Wasatch Front trail
systems.




                           DRAFT CHAPTER 7: RECREATION              85
     ECOLOGICAL & STORMWATER
     FUNCTIONS
     Open space in Cottonwood Heights plays a critical environmental
     role. Natural areas help purify air, soil, and water; support wildlife
     habitat; reduce the urban heat island effect; and offer scenic
     buffers that soften the edges of development. Drainage corridors—
     especially Big Cottonwood Creek and Little Cottonwood Creek—are
     vital components of the City’s stormwater infrastructure. These
     systems filter and convey runoff naturally, reducing the need for
     costly engineered solutions while improving resilience during major
     storm events.

     Preserving and restoring these spaces helps protect biodiversity,
     maintain soil health, and mitigate flooding. Where appropriate,
     passive trails and interpretive signage can help residents engage
     with and appreciate these natural processes without compromising
     their ecological integrity.

     COMMUNITY VALUES &
     STEWARDSHIP
     Public input consistently highlights open space and natural
     recreation as top community priorities. Residents value the sense
     of freedom, connection to nature, and quality-of-life benefits
     that natural landscapes provide. As the City continues to evolve,
     Cottonwood Heights should remain committed to:

      Preserving remaining open space

      Enhancing trail and canyon access

      Restoring ecological functions

      Educating the public on stewardship and shared use



86   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS GENERAL PLAN DRAFT
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS RECREATION CENTER
The Cottonwood Heights Recreation Center       The Rec Center offers a wide variety of          While anyone may purchase a membership,
(commonly referred to as the Rec Center)       indoor and outdoor amenities, including          discounted rates are available to residents
has been a cornerstone of community life       four indoor pools, three outdoor pools, a        living within the Cottonwood Heights
since the first phase of construction was      dive tank, two water slides, an Olympic-         Parks and Recreation Service Area, as
completed in 1971—more than 30 years           sized ice arena, a basketball gymnasium,         local property taxes help support ongoing
before the City was officially incorporated.   an indoor walking track, five racquetball        operations.
After three subsequent expansion phases,       courts, multiple fitness rooms, six outdoor
the facility now spans 160,000 square feet,    pickleball courts, on-site childcare, and four
making it one of the largest recreation        meeting rooms. It also hosts community
centers in the Salt Lake Valley.               events such as holiday celebrations, athletic
                                               tournaments, and seasonal races.




                                                                                                  DRAFT CHAPTER 7: RECREATION             87
     PARKS
     Cottonwood Heights is currently home to ten formalized parks, with two additional parks either in the planning phase or under construction
     (. Most parks are operated by the Cottonwood Heights Parks and Recreation Service Area, though Salt Lake County also owns and manages
     some facilities. These parks range in size and character—from small pocket parks to large regional amenities—and collectively provide a
     blend of programmed recreation and passive open space.


                                 A. ANTCZAK PARK
                                 Located in the Colebrook neighborhood next to Ridgecrest Elementary, Antczak Park was built in 1977 and
                                 named after Don Antczak, a long-time trustee and city councilmember. The park offers a playground, pavilion,
                                 restrooms, tennis courts, and pickleball courts.


                                 B. BERRY HILL PARK
                                 Berry Hill Park is a small pocket park within the Knudsen’s Corner neighborhood. It doubles as a stormwater
                                 retention basin and does not have programmed amenities such as playgrounds or sports courts, but the grass
                                 hill, shade trees and benches provide a peaceful spot for relaxation.


                                 C. BUTLER PARK
                                 Adjacent to Butler Middle School and the Rec Center, Butler Park is a popular 11.3-acre park featuring a large
                                 pavilion, playground, restrooms, and six pickleball courts. It is heavily used by both Brighton neighborhood
                                 residents and visitors from across the City.


                                 D. BYWATER PARK
                                 Located in the Butlerville neighborhood, Bywater Park provides a well-rounded mix of open space and active
                                 recreation amenities. It is a critical part on the Thanksgiving Day 5K route, a beloved pavilion picnic spot, and a
                                 popular venue for community baseball games at Riley England Memorial Field. Key features include a pavilion,
                                 a playground, restrooms, baseball fields, and tennis courts.

88   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
Map 7.2 – Existing and Proposed Recreation System




                                                              B       K
                        J                                         I



                                  A                                   D
                                                                              L
                          E
                                                          C
                                                                              F G




                                                                          H


                                 Parks
 A Anzack Park                    G   Ferguson Dog Park
  B Berry Hill Park               H   Golden Hills Park
  C   Butler Park                 I   Mill Hollow Park
 D Bywater Park                   J   Mountainview Park
  E   Crestwood Park              K   Old Mill Park
  F   Doverhill Park (Planned)    L   Canyon Center Park (Building)




                                                                                    DRAFT CHAPTER 7: RECREATION   89
                         E. CRESTWOOD PARK
                         At 58 acres, Crestwood Park is the largest park in the City. Owned and managed by Salt Lake County, it provides
                         regional-scale amenities while maintaining a local, neighborhood feel. Highlights include Crestwood Outdoor
                         Pool, tennis courts, a playground, horseshoe pits, picnic areas, walking paths, wildlife habitat, and access to Little
                         Cottonwood Creek. The park is also a popular destination for dog walking.


                         F. DOVERHILL PARK (UNDER CONSTRUCTION)
                         Currently under construction, Doverhill Park is expected to open in 2025. The two-acre park will include a
                         pavilion, play equipment, a walking trail, and a central lawn area.




                         G. FERGUSON PARK
                         Ferguson Park is the newest addition to the Cottonwood Heights park system. Located on Prospector Drive,
                         the park serves as a key access point to Ferguson Canyon and features a fenced off-leash dog area, loop trail
                         through native vegetation, picnic tables, restrooms, shaded seating areas, dog waste stations, a bike repair
                         station, and parking. Dogs are allowed on-leash in nearby Ferguson Canyon.


                         H. GOLDEN HILLS PARK
                         Set in a quiet location above Wasatch Boulevard, Golden Hills Park includes a playground, tennis courts,
                         restrooms, grassy open space, shade trees, picnic tables, and a perimeter walking path.




                         I. MILL HOLLOW PARK
                         This park, located in the Knudsen’s Corner neighborhood, occupies a site with steep terrain shaped by past
                         gravel mining. It features a pavilion, restrooms, picnic areas, playground, open lawn, tennis courts, and an
                         informal ball diamond. A paved walking path circles the park, which is popular for walking, running, and field
                         sports.

90   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
J. MOUNTVIEW PARK                                         EXPANDING ACCESS TO
                                                          RECREATION
One of the most heavily used parks in the City,
Mountview Park lies along the busy Fort Union             The wide variety of parks and the extensive
Corridor in the Colebrook neighborhood. The nearly        offerings of the Cottonwood Heights Recreation
50-acre site is owned and maintained by Salt Lake         Center together form the backbone of the City’s
County and draws both local residents and regional        traditional recreational infrastructure. These
visitors for its high-quality amenities and central       amenities are well-loved and widely used, but
location.                                                 not all residents have equal access to them.
                                                          Some neighborhoods remain under served,
                                                          especially those west of Highland Drive or in
K. OLD MILL PARK                                          areas disconnected from the City’s trail network.
(SPENCER’S POND)
                                                          As the City continues to grow, there is an
Located in the Old Mill neighborhood, this unique         ongoing need to maintain, upgrade, and expand
park blends recreational use with historical              these facilities in ways that support equitable
interpretation. Features include a segment of the Big     access and align with regional recreation goals.
Cottonwood Trail, a footbridge, native vegetation,        This includes working with Salt Lake County and
and a spring-fed pond that functions as a seasonal        other partners to complete key trail linkages—
debris catchment for Big Cottonwood Creek.                particularly segments of the Bonneville Shoreline
Interpretive signage along the trail tells the story of   Trail—and strengthening partnerships to ensure
early settlement in the area, including the nearby        public access to the Wasatch canyons. These
Cottonwood Paper Mill (also known as the “Old Mill”).     priorities form the foundation of the goals and
                                                          strategies outlined in the next section.


L. CANYON CENTER PARK
(CURRENTLY UNDER DESIGN)
This park will be part of the Canyon Centre
development at 7371 South Canyon Centre Parkway.
The small park will primarily serve the needs of
nearby residents and users of the adjacent hotel.



                                                                  DRAFT CHAPTER 7: RECREATION                 91
     TRAILS                                           RECREATION MANAGEMENT
     Trails play a vital function in Cottonwood       Recreation in Cottonwood Heights is managed through a unique partnership model led by
     Heights recreation system. They are              the Cottonwood Heights Parks and Recreation Service Area (CHPRSA). Originally established
     critical recreational amenities that can         in 1971 to serve the greater Cottonwood Heights area through targeted tax assessments,
     provide access between home and nearby           CHPRSA has developed strong relationships with the City of Cottonwood Heights, Canyons
     neighborhood parks and recreational              School District, and Salt Lake County.
     amenities from each home. When linked
                                                      CHPRSA is responsible for operating and programming the Cottonwood Heights Recreation
     together as part of a comprehensive
                                                      Center, and for maintaining many of the City’s parks. This partnership model allows
     system, they can help reduce car
                                                      for shared facilities and coordinated investments that reflect the community’s evolving
     dependence. Trails are intrinsically
                                                      recreational needs. CHPRSA remains the City’s primary partner in delivering parks and
     democratic facilities that support a wide
                                                      recreation services.
     range of uses (walking, running and cycling)
     and users (individuals, families, weekend        Two exceptions include Crestwood Park, a large regional park owned and operated by
     warriors, youth, seniors, commuters and          Salt Lake County, and Old Mill Park, which is owned and maintained by the City. These
     casual recreationists).                          arrangements highlight the layered and collaborative structure of recreation management
                                                      in Cottonwood Heights—a structure that will continue to be essential as the City grows and
     Cottonwood Heights currently has several
                                                      demands on recreational infrastructure increase.
     miles of existing trails, and additional trail
     corridors are envisioned as neighborhood
     and citywide plans are implemented.
     Expanding the trail network, especially
     to fill key gaps and connect isolated
     neighborhoods, will be essential to
     improving equitable access and promoting
     active transportation and healthy lifestyles.




92   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS GENERAL PLAN DRAFT
Vision for Parks, Recreation, Trails,
& Open Space
Cottonwood Heights is shaped by its remarkable natural setting—flanked by Big and Little        Through an extensive public engagement
Cottonwood Canyons and situated on the foothills of the Wasatch Mountains. These natural        process conducted for the Cottonwood
features not only define the City’s identity, but also provide world-class outdoor recreation   Heights Parks, Trails, & Open Space Master
opportunities that residents deeply value. Nearly a quarter of the City’s land area consists    Plan (2021), community members clearly
of undeveloped natural lands along its eastern edge. These foothill areas are critical for      prioritized improving and maintaining
protecting ecological functions, preserving scenic and recreational assets, and supporting      existing parks, trails, and open spaces
backcountry access.                                                                             over acquiring new land. Residents also
                                                                                                expressed strong support for completing
When these protected lands are removed from the City’s total acreage, less than
                                                                                                a continuous Bonneville Shoreline Trail
seven percent of open, developable land remains. This presents a significant challenge
                                                                                                (BST)—including a mountain biking
for accommodating future growth, including the expansion of parks and recreation
                                                                                                alignment—and for expanding walking and
infrastructure. As a result, the City must focus on making the most of its existing amenities
                                                                                                biking infrastructure throughout the City.
while strategically enhancing connectivity, equity, and long-term stewardship.
                                                                                                These priorities form the backbone of the
                                                                                                City’s future recreation vision.




 Parks, Recreation, Trails, and Open Space inspirational imagery.


                                                                                                  DRAFT CHAPTER 7: RECREATION            93
     FUTURE RECREATION FRAMEWORK
     As illustrated in Map 7.2 on page 89, the future recreation concept encapsulates the priorities expressed in the Cottonwood Heights Parks,
     Trails, and Open Space Master Plan (2021), other adopted plans, public input, and local values to guide growth, access, and investment in
     the parks, trails, and open space system. It aligns with smart growth principles by seeking to enhance access to recreational amenities for all
     neighborhoods—particularly those currently under served. Key elements to this recreation framework include:




            NEIGHBORHOOD-LEVEL FOCUS
                                      1                                            CORRIDOR-BASED RECREATION
                                                                                                              2
       A focus on neighborhood-level recreation planning initiatives,          Implementation and refinement of the recreational visions
       including the establishment of Neighborhood Recreational                identified for Fort Union Boulevard, Wasatch Boulevard, and
       Planning Districts and Master Plans that are aligned with an            other strategic transportation corridors. These areas serve as
       overarching city-wide recreational vision.                              important connectors for pedestrians, cyclists, and trail users and
                                                                               should be prioritized for improvements that enhance mobility and
                                                                               recreational value.




          HONORING HISTORY & IDENTITY
                                     3                                               QUALITY RECREATION DESIGN
                                                                                                              4
       Embracing local history and context: Recreational amenity               Enhanced recreational development standards: Use tools such
       enhancements and access improvements should be grounded                 as small area plans and form-based codes to ensure that future
       in the history, traditions and existing patterns of each specific       development and redevelopment efforts include high-quality,
       neighborhood. Cultural and historical assets should be                  accessible recreation infrastructure. Emphasis should be placed
       celebrated, protected, and used wisely, ensuring that past              on making better use of existing parks and open spaces while
       generations are honored and historic uses and sites are properly        preparing to respond to emerging opportunities.
       acknowledged and memorialized.


94   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
“A city of connected neighborhoods, where every resident
enjoys easy access to parks, trails, and open space,
honoring our identity as the City Between the Canyons.”




                                                           DRAFT CHAPTER 7: RECREATION   95
     Recreation Goals
     GOAL 1: MAINTAIN AND ENHANCE EXISTING                                GOAL 2: PROVIDE EASY ACCESS FROM
     RECREATIONAL AMENITIES                                               ALL HOMES TO NEARBY RECREATION
                                                                          AMENITIES IN ALL COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
     STRATEGIES                                                           NEIGHBORHOODS
      Modernize existing parks with updated infrastructure,
                                                                          STRATEGIES
       equipment, and landscape treatments, guided by
       neighborhood-level planning and community input                     Develop neighborhood-scale recreation strategies to identify
                                                                            and address access gaps, ensuring that all residents live within
      Prioritize the protection, upkeep, and improvement of
                                                                            walking distance of parks or trails.
       established parks, trails, and facilities before developing new
       ones, where feasible.                                               Enhance pedestrian and bicycle trails in all neighborhoods
                                                                            to promote safe, non-motorized access to local parks and
      Update the Cottonwood Heights Recreation Center to meet
                                                                            recreational facilities.
       existing and future needs.
                                                                           Link neighborhood recreational features together as part of a
      Regularly review and update adopted master plans, including
                                                                            citywide trail and pathway system.
       the Parks, Trails & Open Space Master Plan (2021), Fort Union
       Master Plan, Wasatch Boulevard Master Plan, and Bonneville          Encourage neighborhood recreation initiatives that meet both
       Shoreline Trail Access Plan.                                         local and citywide recreation needs.

      Align master plans with the forthcoming Tri-Canyon Trails Plan      Integrate parks, recreational facilities and community spaces
       created by the U.S. Forest Service (USFS). Collaborate with USFS     into regional and neighborhood centers to enhance the quality
       and private landowners to maintain and improve access to             of life and encourage active lifestyles.
       canyons.
                                                                           Implement neighborhood and citywide trail and pathway
      Promote sustainable recreational development and                     enhancements that result in a fully- connected and accessible
       enhancements such as low-impact development, energy-                 trail system.
       efficient design, and waterwise landscaping for both new and
       existing facilities.




96   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
Recreation Goals
GOAL 3: PROVIDE ADDITIONAL                                           GOAL 4: CONTINUE TO PROVIDE A HIGH
RECREATIONAL AMENITIES AS PART OF NEW                                STANDARD OF RECREATION SYSTEM
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS                                                 MAINTENANCE

STRATEGIES                                                           STRATEGIES

 Require publicly accessible parks, plazas, and trail connections    Update annual budgets to ensure funding for operation and
  in all new and redeveloped commercial, mixed-use, and higher-        maintenance of city parks and other land the City maintains is
  density residential projects.                                        sufficient to meet needs.

 Make public open space a defining feature of future town            Secure additional funding for park system improvements,
  centers, including the redevelopment of the Gravel Pit,              including periodic re-evaluation of the impact fee structure,
  Cottonwood, and Union Park Corporate Centers.                        pursuing grants, and partnering with other entities.

 Enhance neighborhood centers with pocket parks, plazas, and         Conduct and regularly update a recreation inventory and
  direct trail access that serve nearby residents.                     use assessment, detailing individual recreational amenities,
                                                                       their current conditions, and a schedule for upgrading and
 Apply “complete streets” principles to trail and streetscape
                                                                       replacement.
  design—incorporating amenities like benches, lighting, signage,
  and landscaping to improve comfort, safety, and usability.          Ensure community members are aware of the recreation
                                                                       amenities available and understand the regulations for use.
                                                                       This should include the implementation of a comprehensive
                                                                       wayfinding and signage master plan, and regular updates too
                                                                       the City’s website.




                                                                                                DRAFT CHAPTER 7: RECREATION             97
98   This page intentionally left blank
CHAPTER 8
SUSTAINABILITY
This chapter of the General Plan outlines Cottonwood Heights’            Cottonwood Heights is well poised to be a leader as a sustainable
long-range goals for building a sustainable and resilient community.     community and has already taken meaningful steps toward
Sustainability touches many aspects of daily life and civic planning.    environmental sustainability through its adoption in 2021 of the
At its core, a sustainable community is one that can preserve and        Interlocal Sustainability Action Plan (ISAP), a collaborative effort
enhance its natural environment, economic vitality, and quality of       with the cities of Holladay and Millcreek. The ISAP serves as a
life for current and future generations.                                 foundational blueprint for advancing sustainable development in
                                                                         the City. This chapter builds upon that framework and expands the
Sustainability is often described as having three interconnected
                                                                         focus by addressing social and economic sustainability as well.
pillars: Environmental, Social, and Economic. Progress in one area
frequently supports progress in the others. By taking a holistic view,   A more sustainable city is a more resilient one—better able to
the City can create a community that is not only more livable and        adapt to change and recover quickly in the face of adversity. This
efficient, but also more adaptable in the face of change.                chapter is an opportunity to envision Cottonwood Heights as a
                                                                         forward-thinking, healthy, and vibrant community prepared for the
                                                                         future.




                                                                                                 DRAFT CHAPTER 8: SUSTAINABILITY                99
      Existing                                                          INTERLOCAL
                                                                        SUSTAINABILITY
      Conditions                                                        ACTION PLAN (ISAP)
      Cottonwood Heights was largely built out between the 1950s        Adopted in 2021, the Interlocal Sustainability Action Plan (ISAP)
      and 1980s, resulting in a physical landscape that reflects        focuses primarily on the environmental dimension of sustainability.
      the norms of that era: wide roads, low-density residential        Developed in collaboration with neighboring cities, the ISAP
      neighborhoods, and separated land uses. These patterns have       outlines practical strategies for improving Cottonwood Heights’
      shaped a car-centric community with larger lots and single-       environmental performance.
      family homes—features that continue to appeal to many
                                                                        Although the original partnership between cities has since ended,
      residents.
                                                                        the ISAP has served as the City’s sustainability master plan since it
      However, this development style presents challenges today.        was adopted in 2021. The ISAP provides actionable steps for city
      The lack of transportation alternatives, limited housing          staff and elected officials for achieving sustainability goals that are
      diversity, and auto-dependent infrastructure create barriers      aligned with broader planning goals, which helps ensure they are
      to long-term sustainability. These characteristics reduce the     implemented as part of a comprehensive vision.
      City’s reliance on a single mode of transportation, which
                                                                        The ISAP organizes its strategies
      makes it difficult to respond to emerging social, economic, and
                                                                        into five key categories:
      environmental needs.
                                                                         Development
      Since the 1980s, awareness of sustainable urban design has
      grown significantly. While Cottonwood Heights recognizes the       Energy Use
      importance of becoming more sustainable, retrofitting existing
      infrastructure and land use patterns requires thoughtful           Landscaping
      planning and innovation. Fortunately, the City has a solid         Transportation
      foundation to build on—and growing community support for
      embracing positive, future-ready change.                           Waste Management




100   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
Sustainability in Balance
THE 3 PILLARS                                                          Figure 7.1 – Three Pillars of Sustainability



Sustainability means aligning the community’s environmental,
economic, and social systems with both current opportunities and
                                                                                                        Pillars of
long-term constraints. A truly sustainable city balances these three
                                                                                                      Sustainability
interrelated and equally important components—often referred to
as the three pillars of sustainability.

 Pillar 1: Environmental Sustainability                                                    1                  2          3
 Pillar 2: Economic Sustainability




                                                                                        Environment



                                                                                                            Economic
 Pillar 3: Social Sustainability




                                                                                                                        Social
As illustrated in Figure 7.1 and described in the following pages,
the three pillars or components are interrelated, each equally
weighted toward the creation of a more sustainable community.
One pillar should not succeed at the expense of another if
sustainability is to be achieved.




                                    Sustainability means aligning the community’s environmental, economic, and
                                    social systems with both current opportunities and long-term constraints.
                                    A truly sustainable city balances these three interrelated and equally important
                                    components—often referred to as the three pillars of sustainability.


                                                                                                      DRAFT CHAPTER 8: SUSTAINABILITY   101
                     1         ENVIRONMENTAL                                              2       ECONOMIC
                               SUSTAINABILITY                                                     SUSTAINABILITY

                 Environment




                                                                                       Economic
                          Environmental sustainability is accomplished by                       A sustainable economy is one that supports
                          reducing the impact of human activities on the                        long-term prosperity for both the city and its
                          natural systems that support the community.                           residents. This requires a diverse and adaptable
      A major component of protecting the environment is the wise            local economy, strong employment opportunities, and stable
      utilization of land. Focusing growth will reduce pressure to develop   revenue to support high-quality public services and infrastructure.
      at the edges where it would impact open lands, natural foothills       Key strategies that promote a sustainable local economy as detailed
      and the Wasatch Mountains. Growth should be consistent with the        in the Economic Development Chapter include:
      Future Land Use Concept and associated policies in the Land Use,
                                                                              Diversifying city revenue streams
      Transportation, Housing and Water Preservation chapters, which
      include recommendations to align future growth and development          Carefully utilizing available land and targeting redevelopment
      in ways that reduce impacts on the environment. Some of the key          efforts to meet sustainable economic development goals and
      strategies for protecting the environment include:                       needs
       Promoting compact, walkable, infill, and mixed-use                    Ensuring infrastructure and building techniques support
        development                                                            sustainable development
       Focusing redevelopment in activity centers and along major            Targeting public investment to help attract and support
        corridors and transit routes                                           sustainable economic development
       Preserving open space, sensitive habitat, and natural lands           Supporting local goods, services, and entrepreneurship
       Using energy and resources more efficiently                           Embracing emerging business models and industries
       Reducing dependence on car-based travel                               Forming regional partnerships for workforce development and
                                                                               job creation
       Improving local air and water quality
                                                                              Enhancing the City’s quality of life to attract and retain
       Directing waste diversion and reduction
                                                                               economic investment
       Expanding energy and water conservation measures




102   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
               3      SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY
                      Social sustainability means that everyone


             Social
                      in Cottonwood Heights can thrive—
                      regardless of age, income, or background.
                      This includes equitable access to housing,
                      transportation, employment, education, and
recreation. A socially sustainable city is inclusive, healthy, and
safe for all residents. This pillar is highly dependent on a clean,
healthy environment and a resilient local economy that provides
opportunity and security across generations. Key strategies to
advance social sustainability include:

 Providing affordable and adequate housing for all ages, life
  stages and income levels

 Maintaining a transparent government that values public
  participation

 Supporting and celebrating the local identity, arts, and culture

 Assisting vulnerable members of the community

 Implementing smart growth policies that support ”Smart
  Growth” that supports complete neighborhoods and streets

 Protecting residents from environmental and natural hazards

 Providing a safe, connected, and equitable transportation
  system

 Guaranteeing access to high-quality parks, open space, trails,
  and recreational amenities




                                                                      DRAFT CHAPTER 8: SUSTAINABILITY   103
      COORDINATION WITH THE OTHER GENERAL
      PLAN CHAPTERS
      Sustainability is not an isolated goal—it is embedded throughout the General Plan. Each chapter contributes to the City’s vision of a more
      sustainable community, as summarized here:

       The Land Use Chapter promotes compact, walkable, and mixed-use development, supports infill and redevelopment, and seeks to
        protect open space and natural lands. It encourages a balanced mix of housing and businesses, supports a fair and predictable planning
        process, and values design compatibility with the City’s existing character and history. It also calls for the creation of a defined City
        Center and the enhancement of other business, mixed-use, and recreational nodes to foster social interaction and economic vitality
        through higher-density development.

       The Transportation Chapter emphasizes improved connectivity between neighborhoods, jobs, and services; street design that
        accommodates all modes of transportation and reduces idling time; reduced parking requirements; and promotes sustainable
        transportation modes. The chapter highlights the importance of a high-quality pedestrian environment, encourages community events,
        and supports mixed-use development that reduces travel distances and promotes active lifestyles.

       The Economic Development Chapter promotes a diverse and resilient economy through policies that strengthen both local and
        regional business environments. It emphasizes job creation, balanced economic growth, and a more equitable jobs-to-housing ratio,
        helping to ensure long-term prosperity and community stability.

       The Housing Chapter supports social equity through the promotion of adequate housing for all income levels and age groups, with
        particular emphasis on meeting state-mandated requirements and providing strategies to meeting affordability targets.

       The Water Use and Preservation Chapter addresses the impacts of land use planning on water use, aiming towards a future in which
        growth and development is supported by an adequate water supply. A primary goal is to ensure that evolving land use patterns continue
        to support a sustainable water future.

       The Recreation Chapter includes goals and policies to ensure recreation facilities continue to be provided in a manner that is accessible
        and equitable, which will be achieved by enhancing existing parks and open spaces, providing new ones to fill future needs, and ensuring
        easy access through a comprehensive citywide trail system. The recreation system will be designed to reduce water and energy use,
        protect the natural environment, and incorporate recreational best-practices.




104   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS GENERAL PLAN DRAFT
Sustainability Goals
Cottonwood Heights has taken meaningful steps toward environmental sustainability. The following goals build upon those successes while
highlighting new actions to help the City achieve the economic and social goals contained in the ISAP, which will help make Cottonwood
Heights a more resilient and inclusive community.


ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS
GOAL 1: PROMOTE SUSTAINABLE                                           GOAL 2: ADVANCE COMMUNITY ENERGY
DEVELOPMENT AND BUILDING PRACTICES                                    EFFICIENCY AND RESILIENCE

Ensure that future development reflects local sustainability          Reduce energy use, promote renewable sources, and position
objectives and incorporates environmentally responsible building      Cottonwood Heights as an energy-conscious city.
and site design.
                                                                      STRATEGIES
STRATEGIES
                                                                       Continue participation in the Utah Community Renewable
 Encourage the use of sustainable construction methods, durable        Energy Program and explore additional energy coalitions.
  materials, and high-efficiency systems.
                                                                       Retrofit city facilities with high-efficiency systems and consider
 Promote passive solar design through education on building            sustainability in budgeting decisions.
  orientation and shading techniques.
                                                                       Launch community outreach campaigns on energy efficiency
 Require site connectivity to adjacent neighborhoods and               and retrofits.
  encourage reduced parking in projects that utilize sustainable
                                                                       Offer incentives for residential and commercial energy-saving
  site design.
                                                                        projects.
 Provide education and outreach on the fiscal, environmental,
                                                                       Strengthen enforcement of energy codes and evaluate fees to
  and health benefits of sustainable design.
                                                                        support compliance.
 Implement ordinances to reduce light pollution and require
  dark-sky rated fixtures for public and private developments.




                                                                                             DRAFT CHAPTER 8: SUSTAINABILITY                 105
      Sustainability Goals
      GOAL 3: CONSERVE LANDSCAPES AND                                     GOAL 4: IMPROVE TRANSPORTATION
      NATURAL RESOURCES                                                   SUSTAINABILITY

      Protect existing natural systems and landscapes while guiding new   Support cleaner, more efficient, and more accessible transportation
      development to reduce environmental impact.                         options.

      STRATEGIES                                                          STRATEGIES

       Inventory existing trees and adopt a preservation ordinance to     Implement policies to reduce vehicle idling, especially near
        guide maintenance and retention.                                    schools and busy corridors.

       Use native, non-invasive plant materials in city projects.         Improve public transportation access and rider experience
                                                                            through upgraded bus stops and rider education.
       Adopt development standards to protect riparian corridors and
        sensitive habitats.                                                Support active transportation infrastructure to reduce car
                                                                            dependence.
       Promote low-impact landscaping and irrigation, including rain
        gardens, bioswales, rooftop planting, and tree grates.
                                                                          GOAL 5: REDUCE RESOURCE WASTE
       Establish maximum impervious surface coverage limits to reduce
        runoff.                                                           Minimize waste generation and promote resource conservation in
                                                                          public and private operations.

                                                                          STRATEGIES

                                                                           Reduce paper use and water consumption at city facilities.

                                                                           Launch community-wide litter reduction and clean-up programs.

                                                                           Expand recycling and composting education and access.




106   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
Sustainability Goals
ECONOMIC GOALS
GOAL 1: TRANSITION TO A CLEAN ENERGY                             GOAL 2: STRENGTHEN THE LOCAL BUSINESS
ECONOMY                                                          ECOSYSTEM

Promote economic growth through renewable energy, energy         Support local businesses and attract sustainable economic
efficiency, and emissions reduction.                             opportunities.

STRATEGIES                                                       STRATEGIES

 Set a target date for reaching renewable energy adoption        Provide resources and incentives to support local business
  benchmarks.                                                      growth and entrepreneurship.

 Collaborate with Rocky Mountain Power to explore large-scale    Encourage innovative business models and clean industries
  renewable energy options.                                        aligned with sustainability goals.

 Encourage energy-efficient building retrofits and the use of
  electric vehicles to lower community-wide emissions.           GOAL 3: INVEST IN WORKFORCE
                                                                 DEVELOPMENT AND ECONOMIC RESILIENCE

                                                                 Support local businesses and attract sustainable economic
                                                                 opportunities.

                                                                 STRATEGIES

                                                                  Support training programs and workforce development
                                                                   partnerships.

                                                                  Encourage circular economy principles and long-term
                                                                   investment in green industries and renewable energy.




                                                                                       DRAFT CHAPTER 8: SUSTAINABILITY          107
      Sustainability Goals
      SOCIAL GOALS
      GOAL 1: PROMOTE HEALTH, EQUITY, AND                                  GOAL 2: FOSTER INCLUSIVE CIVIC
      QUALITY OF LIFE                                                      ENGAGEMENT

      Ensure all residents have equitable access to housing, recreation,   Encourage broad community participation in city decision-making.
      clean air and water, and essential services.
                                                                           STRATEGIES
      STRATEGIES
                                                                            Use tools like participatory budgeting to engage residents in
       Promote affordable, quality housing for all life stages and          municipal decisions.
        income levels.
                                                                            Maintain open and transparent government processes that
       Ensure equitable access to safe, green public spaces in all          welcome diverse voices.
        neighborhoods.

       Protect residents from environmental hazards and promote
        public health through urban design.




108   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS TOMORROW – GENERAL PLAN 2025 DRAFT
Sustainability Action Items
To achieve the sustainability goals, the following steps are
recommended:

 The City Council should identify and select priority sustainability
  projects on an annual basis

 City staff should regularly review and update ordinances to
  reflect current best practices in sustainable development.

 Staff should attend regional workshops and conferences,
  coordinate with other municipalities, and stay current with
  evolving sustainability strategies.

 Explore and apply for grants and funding sources to implement
  sustainability projects.

 Conduct regular resilience drills and preparedness exercises for
  natural disasters and climate-related events.




                                                                        DRAFT CHAPTER 8: SUSTAINABILITY   109
                    MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
                      PLANNING COMMISSION WORK MEETING

                                   Wednesday, August 6, 2025
                                            5:00 p.m.
                                   2277 East Bengal Boulevard
                                     City Council Chambers

ATTENDANCE

Members Present:        Chair Lucy Anderson, Commissioner Mike Shelton (via Zoom),
                        Commissioner Dan Poulson, Commissioner Dan Mills, Commissioner
                        Mike Smith, Commissioner Garry Barnes, Commissioner Rusty Lugo-
                        Alternate

Staff Present:          City Manager, Jared Gerber; Deputy City Recorder, Cienna Brummel;
                        Planner III, Maverick Yeh; System Administrator, Alex Earl

Absent:                 Vice-Chair Sean Steinman

WORK SESSION

Chair Lucy Anderson called the Planning Commission Work Session to order at 5:04 p.m.

1.0    Review Business Session Agenda.

Chair Andersen reviewed the Business Session Agenda and reported that Item 3.1 would be a
continuation of the discussion regarding Project CUP-25-011 to amend the Giverny Community
Planned Unit Development (“PUD”) rules regarding accessory structure setbacks.

Planner III, Maverick Yeh stated that Project CUP-25-011 requested approval of a Conditional
Use Permit (“CUP”) to amend the Giverny PUD located at approximately 3505 East Giverny
Parkway in the R-1-8 zone. The item was continued from the July 16, 2025, Planning Commission
meeting. Staff was asked to research concerns raised at the meeting and follow up with the
Building and Fire Departments to ensure that the setbacks meet Building and Fire Codes.

Mr. Yeh then reviewed the Commissioners’ concerns and Staff responses.

       1.        The inclusion of sheds in the proposed amendment could pose an elevated fire
                 safety risk.

                 During a meeting between the applicant and relevant departments, sheds were
                 removed from the proposed amendment. The revised proposal applied only to
                 open-air structures like pergolas and gazebos.

       2.        The reduced setbacks could pose an elevated fire safety risk.


Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 08/06/25                                  1
               The Fire Department indicated that the proposed setback of zero feet from the
               primary structure is adequate as long as footings, foundations, and walls are not
               permitted within the side yard setback. Per Fire Code, fire pits and gas features are
               not allowed under gazebos or pergolas. The Building Department had no objections
               to the reduced setbacks but noted that firewall standards must be met.

               In response to a question raised by Chair Anderson, Mr. Yeh confirmed that
               structures taller than eight feet would require a five-foot setback from side and rear
               property lines, but the proposed modification would not specify a minimum
               distance from the primary structure. Current code requires a three-foot setback for
               side and rear property lines and six feet from the primary structure.

       3.      Allowing reduced setbacks could be unfair to property owners in the R-1-8 zone
               but outside of the Giverny PUD.

               Mr. Yeh reported that lots in the Giverny PUD average 5,000 to 6,000 square feet
               and are smaller than the 8,000-square-foot standard lot size in the R-1-8 zone. The
               applicant’s justification for the request included the unique spatial limitations in the
               PUD.

               Chair Anderson expressed concern about allowing the deviation based solely on the
               smaller lot size as it could set a precedent for other small lots in the R-1-8 zone.
               Mr. Yeh stated that because lot coverage requirements must still be met, Staff
               believed the request for reduced setbacks was reasonable. In response to a
               question, Mr. Yeh clarified that owners of other smaller-than-average lots in the R-
               1-8 zone would not be eligible for reduced setbacks.

               City Manager, Jared Gerber agreed with Chair Anderson that the decision could set
               a precedent but noted that the Planning Commission should also consider the fact
               that the subdivision is in a PUD.

Staff recommended that the Planning Commission approve the request with no additional
conditions.

Commissioner Mills asked if there was a reason the reduced setbacks for open-air structures should
not be applied to all properties in the zone. In his opinion, the City should be more inclined to
enforce setbacks on smaller lots, not less. If it was concluded that the reduced setbacks were safe,
he believed they should be applied citywide rather than giving one community preferential
treatment. Chair Anderson agreed.

Commissioner Shelton agreed that if there was no problem with the proximity of the structures,
rather than granting the request of a select group of homes, it should be applied to all residential
zones in the City. He saw no reason to first grant an exception to the R-1-8 zone to create smaller
lots within the PUD and then grant an additional exception for smaller setbacks.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 08/06/25                                            2
Commissioner Poulsen referred to page 4 of the Modification of Giverny Accessory Building
Setbacks document. The proposal was to allow posts three feet from the property line. However,
no changes were proposed to the roof structure overhang. As written, if the posts were moved to
three feet, the overhang would be on the property line. The roof structure overhang would need to
be changed to 12 or 24 inches because otherwise, the drip line would be on the property line.

Commissioner Barnes asked about the consequences to the Giverny HOA if the application was
denied and if the issue arose because the developer ignored building standards. Commissioner
Mills stated that the Planning Commission could not consider whether an illegal structure was built
by the developer or a homeowner, but citizen comments at the previous meeting indicated that
many homeowners inherited the illegal structures.

In response to a follow-up question raised by Commissioner Barnes, Chair Anderson clarified that
property owners are bound by current Cottonwood Heights standards. If the application is not
approved and Code Enforcement becomes aware of violations, they will enforce City Code.

Commissioner Poulson asked if setbacks for sheds, pools, and other structures should also be
considered. Chair Anderson indicated that setbacks can be differentiated by building type; for
example, open-air structures versus closed-wall sheds.

Chair Anderson agreed with Commissioner Mills and Commissioner Shelton that if the City
approved of the reduced setbacks, they should be approved for open-air structures in all residential
zones.

Commissioner Smith asked if denial would mean that some structures would have to be removed.
It was clarified that enforcement was outside of the Planning Commission’s purview.
Commissioner Smith stated that he believed the Commission should consider the fact that many
of the affected property owners received building permits for the structures. Mr. Gerber reported
that structures less than 200 square feet in size do not require a building permit but must comply
with City Code, and pergolas are typically smaller than 200 square feet. Whether an illegal
structure must be removed was at Code Enforcement’s discretion. However, because they are not
legal or approved, removal could be required.

Commissioner Poulson noted that one example provided by the applicant was an open-air pergola
with bar seating and a gas grill. That is noncompliant with the Fire Code. He asked if the
homeowner would be allowed to keep the grill if no one complained. Chair Anderson clarified
that action would be taken if someone were to complain or Code Enforcement identified the
violation. In response to his follow-up question, Commissioner Mills stated that Code
Enforcement could identify all violations if there were enough officers, but the current staff was
limited in what they could do. The current Code is enforced every time Code Enforcement is made
aware of a violation. Sometimes, a nonconforming structure has been in place for decades but is
still illegal.

Commissioner Poulson asked if denial would increase the burden on Code Enforcement. Chair
Anderson stated that it is Code Enforcement’s job to enforce City Code when they are aware of a
violation. If Code Enforcement is not aware of a violation, the property could remain



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 08/06/25                                         3
noncompliant. Other violations that may go unnoticed include weeds, illegal Airbnbs, improperly
stored flammables, etc. When Code Enforcement becomes aware of a violation, they take action.

Chair Anderson asked Staff for next steps if the Planning Commission recommended that the
proposed setbacks be approved for all residential zones and not limited to the PUD. Mr. Gerber
stated that the Commission could pass the amendment for the PUD and request that Staff draft a
Text Amendment to revise setbacks for all zones. The amendment would then come back before
the Planning Commission for a recommendation to the City Council. They could also table or
deny the current application.

In response to a question from Commissioner Mills, Mr. Gerber reported that Text Amendments
are initiated at the City Council’s direction, but Staff could bring the matter before the Council.
Chair Anderson noted that if the Planning Commission approved the application and the City
Council chose not to move forward with a Text Amendment, it would create an exception for the
PUD. Commissioner Mills stated that he would prefer to start with the Text Amendment.
Commissioner Shelton agreed.

Commissioner Poulson reiterated that if the side setback is changed to three feet, the roof overhang
discrepancy needs to be addressed. As written, the roof may overhang by up to 36 inches, which
would place the drip line on the property line. Commissioner Mills indicated that the Staff needed
to review the wording to correct any areas of conflict. Chair Anderson noted that a motion to
approve could include the condition that runoff from the roof overhang cannot go into the
neighbor’s yard.

Commissioner Shelton indicated that some Commissioners were in favor of denying the
application in favor of a later Text Amendment. He then offered a comparison between code
enforcement and police officers issuing speeding tickets. Everyone who speeds is not given a
speeding ticket, and laws are not changed to match the highest speed they drive. He believes the
same is true for City Code; laws are not changed to accommodate those who do not obey them,
but not everyone who violates Code receives a citation.

Mr. Gerber provided updates on the following City projects:

   •   The Letter of Intent had been signed for the Town Center, and they would now move into
       the Development Agreement phase of negotiations. He anticipates having design concepts
       ready to present in the Fall. Approximately $20 million of the bond has been issued, and
       the sales tax bond used to purchase the property has been paid off. The remaining bond
       revenue is currently reserved for tenant relocation and additional property acquisition.
       Demolition is expected to begin in Spring 2026.

   •   No new applications had been received regarding the Dakota Pacific apartment project
       north of the future Town Center.

   •   New Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung, would be at the next
       Planning Commission meeting. Mr. Spung worked in Taylorsville for several years and
       was a consultant prior to taking that position. He will be a good addition to City Staff.


Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 08/06/25                                         4
       Maverick Yeh had been promoted to Planner III, and they are working to fill the Planner
       II position.

   •   Butlerville Days was very successful. It was Mr. Gerber’s first time at the event.

   •   The water project behind Fort Union is behind schedule. The City Council has allocated
       funding to finish the road, sidewalk, curb, and gutter in the area. In response to a question
       from Commissioner Mills, Mr. Gerber clarified that the north side was not included.

   •   The first building permit review had been completed for the Rockworth project at the
       Gravel Pit. It passed Fire Department review, but the Public Works, Zoning, Building, and
       Engineering Departments required corrections. Staff is waiting for the resubmittal for
       second review.

   •   The Fort Union property was on the August 5, 2025, City Council Meeting agenda, but the
       applicant, Adam Nash, was unable to attend. The item was continued to the August 19,
       2025, meeting.

   •   The City Council selected three names for the new park across from the dog park: Brighton
       Point, Summer Hill, and Doverhill. A form will be posted online, and residents are
       encouraged to vote on the name. The Council will then choose the final name at a
       September meeting.

   •   A walkthrough of the new Ivory Homes development was scheduled for the following
       week. Commissioner Mills noted some residents were very sensitive to the development,
       but Ivory Homes did not get everything they wanted. The property was an anchor area for
       the Valley and very sought after, and he believed the development was a great addition to
       the area. Mr. Gerber noted that some young families are moving into the development.

   •   No new information had been provided by the Utah Department of Transportation
       ("UDOT") regarding the Wasatch Boulevard and Fort Union Boulevard interchange. Staff
       has met with UDOT on the matter and voiced their concerns, but UDOT has not made any
       written commitments.

   •   UDOT is still working with the property owner regarding the transit hub at the Gravel Pit.
       Some studies have been completed, but no decision has been made.

   •   A Conditional Use Permit (“CUP”) application was submitted for demolition of the Old
       Mill, but it was not complete. The one-year review period will not begin until a complete
       application is submitted.

Mr. Yeh asked for direction on CUP applications for home businesses with clients. In the past,
the Community and Economic Development director reviewed those applications. However, Mr.
Sprung asked that he verify whether those cases should still be reviewed at the Staff level or if the
Planning Commission would like to review them.



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 08/06/25                                          5
Commissioner Mills stated that whether those applications came before the Commission was
historically based on the nature of the business. Chair Anderson agreed that it was previously
based on the business type and number of clients. It was her opinion that the applications should
come before the Planning Commission, and they could then reevaluate at a later date.
Commissioner Smith stated that if people are making exceptions to the neighborhood, it should be
reviewed by the Commission. The Commissioners agreed.

Mr. Yeh invited the Planning Commission to attend the American Planning Association (“APA”)
Utah conference. Chair Anderson asked that the Commission be notified of the conference dates.
She has attended them in the past and found them to be very valuable. If it is appropriate for the
Commission to attend, they should do so. Mr. Gerber stated that the Fall conference will be
October 9 through October 10, 2025, at The Depot and Megaplex Theater. The Spring conference
usually requires travel to a different part of the state. Chair Anderson stated that when
Commissioners attend conferences, they should return with a synopsis to share with those who
could not attend.

Mr. Yeh noted that Planning Commission-specific training is always offered at APA conferences.
Chair Anderson reminded the Commission that they are required to complete training by the end
of the year, and the conference could count toward that requirement. In response to a question
from Commissioner Smith, Mr. Gerber asked that the Commissioners send an email to Staff when
they complete training so it can be tracked.

2.0    Adjourn.

Commissioner Mills moved to ADJOURN the Work Session. Commissioner Smith seconded
the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Work Session adjourned at 5:50 p.m.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 08/06/25                                       6
                    MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
                     PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS MEETING

                                      Wednesday, 6, 2025
                                           6:00 p.m.
                                  2277 East Bengal Boulevard
                                    City Council Chambers

Members Present:       Chair Lucy Anderson, Commissioner Mike Shelton (via Zoom),
                       Commissioner Dan Poulson, Commissioner Dan Mills, Commissioner
                       Mike Smith, Commissioner Garry Barnes, Commissioner Rusty Lugo-
                       Alternate

Staff Present:         City Manager, Jared Gerber; Deputy City Recorder, Cienna Brummel;
                       Planner III, Maverick Yeh; System Administrator, Alex Earl

Public Attendees:      Richard Herr, Brent Johnson

Absent:                Vice-Chair Sean Steinman

BUSINESS SESSION

Chair Lucy Anderson called the Planning Commission Business Session to order at 6:00 p.m.

1.0    Welcome and Acknowledgements.

       1.1       Ex Parte Communications or Conflicts of Interest to Disclose.

There were no Ex Parte Communications or Conflicts of Interest disclosed.

2.0    General Public Comment.

There were no public comments.

3.0    Business Items.

       3.1       Project CUP-25-011 (PUD-25-001) - A Public Hearing and Potential Action on
                 a Request by Brent Johnson on behalf of the Giverny Master Association (the
                 Giverny Community HOA) to Amend the Giverny Community Planned Unit
                 Development’s Rules regarding some Accessory Structure Setbacks.
                 Although this application was noticed as PUD-25-001, the application type is
                 technically a Conditional Use Permit. As such, the application has been
                 renamed CUP-25-011.

Planner III, Maverick Yeh, presented the Staff Report and indicated that the application was to
amend the original Giverny Planned Unit Development (“PUD”), which did not address accessory



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 08/06/25                                    7
structure setbacks. Many property owners in the PUD have constructed pergolas or other
accessory structures that do not meet current requirements. A building permit is not required for
structures smaller than 200 square feet in size, but City Code must still be followed. After
complaints were received and Code Enforcement became involved, the Giverny Master
Association approached the City about a potential amendment to change setback requirements for
those structures.

At the July 16, 2025, Planning Commission Meeting, concerns were expressed regarding Building
and Fire Codes. The item was tabled to provide time for the applicant to meet with relevant
departments and for those concerns to be addressed.

Mr. Yeh then reviewed the Commissioners’ concerns and Staff responses.

       1.     The inclusion of sheds in the proposed amendment could pose an elevated fire
              safety risk.

              Sheds were removed from the proposed amendment. The revised proposal applied
              only to open-air structures like pergolas and gazebos.

       2.     The reduced setbacks could pose an elevated fire safety risk.

              The Fire Department approved of the reduced setback from the primary structure
              as long as footings, foundations, and walls are not permitted within the side yard
              setback. Per Fire Code, fire pits and gas features are not allowed under accessory
              structures. The Building Department also approved of the reduced setbacks but
              noted that firewall standards must be met.

       3.     Allowing reduced setbacks could be unfair to property owners in the R-1-8 zone
              but outside of the Giverny PUD.

              Mr. Yeh reported that lots in the Giverny PUD average 5,000 to 6,000 square feet
              and are smaller than the 8,000-square-foot standard lot size in the R-1-8 zone. Due
              to this, Staff found the request for reduced setbacks to be reasonable and
              recommended approval.

Mr. Yeh summarized that the revised proposal applied only to open-air structures like gazebos and
pergolas; sheds and other structures were excluded. The amendment would increase side and rear
setbacks from three feet to five feet and decrease the required minimum distance from the primary
structures from six feet to zero feet. City Staff recommended approval of the application with no
additional conditions.

The applicant, Brent Johnson, stated that there had been some turnover with City Staff. He
originally worked with former Community and Economic Development Director, Michael
Johnson, and Planner III, Ian Harris, toward the goal of ensuring that the amendment is closely
aligned with other City requirements. They were very concerned that structures in the community
were not in compliance. The intent of the amendment was not to deviate greatly from what is



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 08/06/25                                      8
already allowed but to define and streamline the accessory structure setbacks for the PUD’s smaller
lot sizes.

Mr. Johnson referred to the diagram on page 5 of the application. Based on that diagram, most
property owners in the community thought that they did not need a building permit if the structure
was under 120 square feet, did not exceed 11 feet in height, and did not have electricity. They also
believed that the structure only needed to be three feet from the rear property line to be in
compliance.

Some property owners have accessory structures that are six feet from the house and three feet
from the rear fence line. A document that was provided to him by City Staff indicates that walls
that are five feet or less from the property line must have a minimum one-hour fire resistance
rating. Mr. Johnson stated that the note was not previously included on the same document on the
City website, but it was replaced with the correct document after he brought it to Staff attention.
He believes people were not previously aware of the fire resistance rating because it was not on
the website. He was told that a three-foot fire resistance wall would be required with a three-foot
setback, which is why they recommended increasing it to five feet.

Regarding the roof line discrepancy pointed out by Commissioner Poulson in the Work Session,
Mr. Johnson stated that it was added based on a conversation with Mr. Johnson, but he did not
consider the fact that a structure within three feet of the property line would have a drip line at the
property line. In that case, he proposed only allowing a one-foot extension.

Mr. Johnson reported that they were trying to comply with City requirements while saving as many
existing structures as possible. However, they did not expect that noncompliant structures be
grandfathered. They understood that Code Enforcement could require those structures to be
removed. Many of the structures do not have permits, and he sympathizes with homeowners who
thought they were compliant. He has had multiple meetings with City Staff to ensure that the
amendment will protect the community and be compliant with Fire Code. Their request was for a
closer setback to the house, but the 50% lot coverage maximum would still apply.

Mr. Johnson stated that he understood the Commission’s concerns regarding allowing an exception
for the Giverny Community but stressed that all City departments had signed off on the amendment
and mentioned that Fire Marshall, Bradley Larson, had indicated that some fire elements could be
allowed on a case-by-case basis. If the amendment were approved, he suggested that affected
property owners be required to submit an application for Fire Department review to ensure that
the structure is safe.

Regarding how the problem arose, Mr. Johnson stated that Regal Homes added accessory
structures to their three model homes while the community was in development and being
regularly inspected by the City. There were now 36 accessory structures, some with valid building
permits and others that would be brought into compliance if the amendment were approved. He
sympathizes with homeowners who purchased a property with an existing structure but
understands that it is the homebuyer’s responsibility to ensure that the structure was permitted.
Some structures will need to be removed. The issue was originally brought to his attention because
a complaint was made to Code Enforcement about all accessory structures in the community. One



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 08/06/25                                            9
homeowner was required to remove his structure at that time, and then a reprieve was granted to
the community while they worked on the amendment.

Chair Anderson opened the public hearing.

Richard Herr stated that he spoke at the July meeting as well. After reviewing the R-1-8 setback
requirements and speaking with the Fire Department, he determined that his gazebo was in
compliance with current City Code. However, it would not be in compliance with the proposed
maximum height of eight feet, which is stricter than the current 14-foot maximum. He requested
that any structures that are in compliance with R-1-8 zone be granted an exemption from the more
restrictive requirements proposed by the HOA.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Smith indicated that the Commission had a productive discussion during the Work
Session. He was in favor of the proposed changes but appreciated the concern about making
exceptions and applying different rules to different neighborhoods.

Chair Anderson noted that HOAs can make their own rules, but City Code will always take
precedence. City Manager, Jared Gerber clarified that HOAs can apply additional, more restrictive
covenants to their property, but they must be recorded as part of the Covenants, Conditions, and
Restrictions (“CC&Rs”) for those properties and are privately enforced.

In response to a question from Chair Anderson, Mr. Yeh clarified that setbacks for open-air
structures are measured from the footing or post to the property line.

Commissioner Mills expressed gratitude for the discussion. He believed the issue warranted
exceptional treatment but believed that it required a Text Amendment. Based on the public
comment and the overhang issue identified by Commissioner Poulson, some additional cleanup
may be necessary. He agreed that the rules could be changed for gazebos and pergolas but believed
that the change should be applied citywide. He was not in favor of providing a different set of
rules for the smaller lots. Chair Anderson agreed.

Mr. Gerber clarified that, per City Code, the purpose of a PUD is “to provide for innovative
residential developments having harmony of design and variety of function by providing for
greater flexibility in the design and buildings, yards, courts, and circulation than would otherwise
be possible through the strict application of zoning district regulations.” A PUD has separate
setbacks and other exceptions to R-1-8 zone requirements.

Commissioner Poulson noted that if the application were approved for the PUD, it would not apply
to others in the R-1-8 zone with lots smaller than 8,000 square feet. He believed it could cause
confusion for those property owners. In response to a follow-up question from Commissioner
Poulson, Mr. Gerber confirmed that a standard lot in the R-1-8 zone must be a minimum of 8,000
square feet in size. Lots in the Giverny community are smaller because they went through the
PUD process.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 08/06/25                                        10
Commissioner Mills stated that PUDs were not designed as a way to circumvent City Code. They
are intended to allow creativity and flexibility, but not to skirt safety requirements or property
rights. PUDs can be complicated and messy at times. He believed it was prudent to be circumspect
about the change because it would set a precedent.

After further discussion, the Commission agreed that the matter should be addressed through a
Text Amendment.

Commissioner Mills moved to DENY Project CUP-25-011 based on the following:

Findings:

       1.      Approval would set a precedent.

       2.      The issue would be better addressed with a Text Amendment to City Code.

Commissioner Poulson seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner Poulson-Yes;
Commissioner Mills-Yes; Commissioner Shelton-Yes; Commissioner Barnes-Yes;
Commissioner Smith-Yes; Chair Anderson-Yes. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

Mr. Gerber reported that he would present the request to the City Council at the August 19, 2025,
City Council meeting.

4.0    Consent Agenda

       4.1     Approval of June 16, 2025, Planning Commission Meeting Minutes.

Commissioner Poulson moved to APPROVE the Consent Agenda. Commissioner Smith
seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The next Planning Commission meeting was scheduled for September 3, 2025.

5.0    Adjourn.

Commissioner Smith moved to the Business Session. Commissioner Poulson seconded the
motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Business Session adjourned at approximately 6:29 p.m.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 08/06/25                                      11
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the
Cottonwood Heights City Planning Commission Work Session and Business Session held on
Wednesday, August 6, 2025.


Teri Forbes
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: _____________________________




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 08/06/25                               12
