Meeting Requested:       Business Meeting D   Work Session IZl   Other D
Public Hearing Needed?   Yes D No IZl Undetermined □
                         Denied D Approved IZI Con inued D
CM Approval or Denial
                         CM Signature: ~



Appendix I - Agendas for September 16, 2025, City Council Work Session and Business Mtg.

Appendix 2 - Meeting Minutes for City Council Meetings on 9/02/2025

Appendix 3 - Staff Report/ Cottonwood Canyon Cove Park Naming Discussion Jared Gerber

Appendix 4 - Staff Report/ General Plan Update Jim Spung

Appendix 5 - Staff Report/ Emergency Management Report Sgt. Bess

Appendix 6 - Staff Report/ Action Items Shane Topham


CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
Attachment 1 - Ordinance 448
Attachment 2 - Resolution 2025-67
      ~          ......
          ...-,;:-        ( ~,


           Cottonwood Heights
            Ciry bnwrm tht r,mJ'OJU




          Appendix 1

     September 16, 2025

City Council Work Session and
  Business Meeting Agendas
            NOTICE OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
                       WORK SESSION AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights City Council will hold a Work Session at
approximately 4:00 p.m., or soon thereafter, on Tuesday, September 16, 2025, in the Cottonwood
Heights City Council Work Room located at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood Heights,
Utah. The public may remotely view the open portions of the meeting through live broadcast by
connecting to https://www.youtube.com/(tvCottonwoodHeights/streams, the city's YouTube
channel.


4:00 p.m.     1.     WELCOME - Mayor Mike Weichers

              2.     REVIEW OF BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA
                     Mayor Mike Weichers (10-15 min.)

              3.     REPORTS
                    a. Introduction ofNew Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District General
                       Manager - Pam Roberts (20 min.)

              4.     STAFF REPORTS
                     (Each week the city council and staffprovide informational reports as a method of
                     keeping up on the day-to-day activities of the city. This agenda item is set aside to
                     allow council members to ask questions or for staffto bring the council up to date
                     regarding any changes since the report was made).

                    a. Cottonwood Canyon Cove Park Naming Discussion
                        City Manager Jared Gerber (20 min.)
                    b. General Plan Update
                        Community and Economic Development Director Jim Spung (60 min.)
                    c. Emergency Management Report
                        Sergeant Bess (20 min.)



              4.      REVIEW OF CALENDARS AND UPCOMING EVENTS*
                      a. Wednesday, September 17th from 1:30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. - Senior Social
                         (Bingo) at City Hall
                      b. Friday, September 26th from 5:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m.- Community Block
                         Party at Hillside Plaza
                      c. October 6th through November 12th - Historic Committee Lobby
                         Display
                      d. Friday, October 10 th from 6:30 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. at City Hall - Special
                         Effects Halloween Makeup Workshop (Open to community members
                         ages 14+, cost is $20)
     e. Wednesday, October 15th from l :30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. at City Hall -
        Senior Social
     f. Friday, October 24 th from 5:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. at CWH Rec Center-
        Monster Mash
     g. November 17th through January 5th - Winter Lobby A1t Display
     h. Monday, December 1st from 5:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. at City Hall - Light
        the Heights
     1. Saturday, December 6th from 7:30 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. at Butler Middle -
        Christmas Concert with Eclipse 6

     *For more information, please visit CH UTAH GOV and click Community
      Calendar


5.   POSSIBLE   CLOSED    MEETING   TO   DISCUSS
     LITIGATION; REAL PROPERTY PURCHASE OR
     LEASE; THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
     COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH
     OF AN INDIVIDUAL; AND/OR ANOTHER PERMITTED
     PURPOSE UNDER UCA 52-2-205

6.   ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION
                                          Cottonwood Heights
                                          City bctu,ee11 the canyons


            NOTICE OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
                      BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights City Council will hold a Business Meeting
beginning at approximately 7:00 p.m., or soon thereafter, on Tuesday, September 16, 2025, in the
Cottonwood Heights City Council Chambers located at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood
Heights, Utah. The public may remotely view the open portions of the meeting through live
broadcast by connecting to https://www .voutube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/strea ms, the
city' s YouTube channel.
Persons physically attending the meeting in the C ity Council Chambers may make verbal comments
to the City Counci l when invited to do so, after completing a speaker comment card. C itizen
comments may also be submitted in writing to the city recorder at citvrecorder@ch.utah.gov by
noon, on the meeting date. In the interest of time and those attending the meeting live, however,
submitted written comments will be entered into the record and distributed to the City Council,
but will not be read at the public meeting.
Civility and decorum should be applied in all discussions and debates. Difficult questions,
tough challenges to a point of view, and criticism of ideas and information are legitimate elements
of a free democracy in action. Public officials and the public are encouraged to refrain from making
belligerent, personal, impertinent, slanderous, threatening, abusive, or disparaging comments.

7:00 p.m.      1.0     WELCOME -Mayor Mike Weichers

               2.0     PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE

               3.0     CITY COUNCIL COMMITTEE REPORTS
               3.1     Committee Reports by Councilmember Matt Holton (3 min.)
               3.2     Committee Reports by Councilmember Suzanne Hyland (3 min.)
               3.3     Committee Reports by Councilmember Shawn Newell (3 min.)
               3.4     Committee Reports by Councilmember Ellen Birrell (3 min.)
               3.5     Committee Reports by Mayor Mike Weichers (3 min.)

               4.0    CITIZEN COMMENTS
                      During each regular city council meeting (specifically excluding work sessions),
                      there will be a period not to exceed sixty minutes for citizen comment. " (Cottonwood
                      Heights Code ofOrdinances 2.30.160 (B)) Persons physically attending the meeting
                      in the City Council Chambers may make verbal comments to the City Council when
                      invited to do so by the meeting chair. Persons attending the meeting remotely may
                      not make verbal comments to the City Council during the meeting. Persons attending
                      the meeting remotely, or who do not attend the meeting either physically or remotely,
                      are invited to submit written comments to the City Recorder before Noon. on the
                      meeting date. Written comments that are timely submitted will be admitted into the
                      record ofthe meeting and distributed to the City Council but will not be read at the
                      public meeting.
               s.o     PUBLIC HEARING
                     5.1    Public Hearing to Receive [nput on the Proposed Amended Budget for the
                            2025-2026 Fiscal Year--Jntroduction by Administrative and Fiscal Services
                            Director Scott Jurges (] 0 min.)

                     6 .0   CHPD PERSONNEL UPDATES
                     6. 1   Announcement of Promotions

                     7.0    ACTION ITEMS
                     7.1    Consideration of Ordinance 448 Adopting an Amended Budget for 1 July
                            2025 through 30 June 2026.
                            (The Utah State Treasurer suggests that Utah cities amend their budgets at least
                            quarterly to reflect any necessary changes since the budget was adopted. This
                            ordinance will approve an amendment to the city's current [2025-2026} budget).
                     7.2    Consideration of Resolution 2025-67 Approving the Appointment of a
                            Treasurer and Financial Reporting Manager.
                            (This resolution will approve the manager's appointment ofReid Sanderson as the
                            city's new treasurer and financial reporting manager, to replace recently retired
                            David Muir.


                      8.0   CONSENTCALENDAR
                      8.1   Approval of the minutes for the City Council Work Session and Business
                            Meetings of September 2, 2025.

                      9.0   ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING

                                        PUBLIC COMMENT PROCEDURE
      During each City Council business meeting (specifically excluding work sessions), there wi ll be a period
      not to exceed 60 minutes for citizen comment. (Code of Ordinances 2.30.160 (B)). Any person wishing
      to comment on any item not otherwise on the agenda for public comment may address the City Council
      during the Public Comment period. Any person wishing to comment during the Public Comment period
      shall request recognition by the Mayor and upon recognition, approach the microphone and state their
      name, state if they are a resident of Cottonwood Heights and either provide their address or their Council
      district; and then address the City Council. Any person wishing to comment shall limit their comments to
      no more than three (3) minutes unless more or less time is specified by the Mayor. Citizen groups who are
      present will be asked to appoint a spokesperson, who shall limit their comments to no more than five (5)
      minutes unless more or less time is specified by the Mayor. All comments shall be directed to the City
      Council. No person addressing the City Council during the comment period shall be allowed to comment
      more than once during that comment period. Speakers should not expect any debate or dialogue with the
      Mayor, City Council or City Staff during the meeting.
       The City Council may choose to limit the amount of time allotted to public comment on a specific issue.
       In such cases, special procedures for determining who will be allowed to speak and the order of such
       speakers will be determined by the Cou ncil. In the interest of time and those attending the meeting live,
       submitted written comments will be entered into the record, distributed to the City Council but not read at
       the public meeting.


On Thursday, September I I, 2025, a copy of the foregoing notices was posted in conspicuous view in the front foyer
of the Collonwood Heights City Offices, Coltonwood Heights, Utah. A copy of this notice was sent to the Sall Lake
Tribune and Deseret News, newspapers of general circulation in the city, by the Office of the City Recorder. The
agendas were also posted on the City's website al www.ch.utah.gov and the Utah Public Notice website al
http: p,1111. 111uh.gol'.

DA TED this 1JI" day of September 2025                                     Tiffany Janzen, City Recorder
The city building for this meeting is accessible. in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, people with
disabilities may make requests/or reasonable accommodation or assistance by notifying the City Recorder at 801-944-
702 I or recorder it ch.111ah. gov, at least two business days before the meeting, or by calling Relay Utah at 7 I 1.
            Cottonwood Heights
            Ciry bttuoem tht m11J011J




           Appendix 2

      MEETING MINUTES
City Council Meetings for 9/02/2025
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION HELD
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2025, AT 4:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
COUNCIL WORK ROOM LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD,
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Members Present:        Mayor Mike Weichers, Council Member Matt Holton, Council Member Ellen
                        Bi1Tell, Council Member Suzanne Hyland, Council Member Shawn Newell

Staff Present:          City Manager, Jared Gerber; City Attorney, Shane Topham; Police Chief,
                        Robby Russo ; Finance Director, Scott Jurges; Records, Culture, and Human
                        Resources Director, Barbara Higgins; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen;
                        Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; IT Manager,
                        Matt Ervin; Public Works Director and City Engineer, Matt Shipp; Unified
                        Fire Authority, Riley Pilgrim

1.0     WELCOME - Mayor Mike Weichers.

Mayor Mike Weichers called the City Council Work Session to order at 4:00 PM.

2.0     REVIEW OF BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA - Mayor Mike Weichers.

The Business Meeting agenda items were reviewed and discussed. Mayor Weichers will ask Council
Member Matt Holton to lead the Pledge of Allegiance. After the Citizen Comment period, three
Action Items will be considered by the City Council. The first Action Item is Consideration of
Resolution 2025-64 - Approving an Appointment to the Parks, Trails, and Open Space Committee.
City Manager, Jared Gerber, reported that there was a discussion with Scott Simonsen, who is excited
to become a member of the Committee. Mr. Gerber explained that this appointment is from District
1 and it will fill the Parks, Trails, and Open Space Committee.

The next item on the Business Meeting agenda is Consideration of Resolution 2025-65 - Approving
the Employee Appeals Board. ¥ayor Weichers explained that this will be discussed during the Staff
Reports section of the agenda. The last Action Item on the Business Meeting agenda is Consideration
of Resolution 2025-66 - Approving a Grant Agreement with the Utah Division of Arts and Museums
for FY 2025-2026. Mr. Gerber reported that this is a grant that is normally received annually. It is
for $3,800, which is a little bit less than what was expected. Council Member Ellen Birrell asked for
additional information about the Arts Council funding. Mr. Gerber offered to provide a breakdown
of the Arts Council information to the City Council.

Mayor Weichers noted that the last item on the Business Meeting agenda is the Consent Calendar.

3.0     STAFF REPORTS

        3.1      Pet Licensing and Off-Leash Penalties Discussion - City Manager, Jared Gerber.

Mayor Weichers reported that the first Staff Report item relates to pet licensing and off-leash
penalties. In the Meeting Materials Packet, there is an informative letter from Police Chief Robby

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for September 2, 2025    Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                       1
Russo. Mr. Gerber reported that some statistics were pulled to look at what the City has done in the
last year as far as licensing. Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung, infonned
the Council that there were over 600 licenses input into the system specific to animal licensing.
Currently, the fees are low. He explained that a sterilized animal that is spayed or neutered is $5 and
there were 506 of those. For unsterilized, there were 52 and the fee is $25. During the last fiscal
year, the City collected $5,857 in fees and processed 672 licenses. The existing fees are low and that
is something the City could reevaluate due to the Staff time involved.

Council Member Birrell mentioned the higher fee for unsterilized versus sterilized. She asked if there
are any issues with stray animals creating nuisances in the City. Chief Russo reported that there are
some feral cat problems, especially at the empty lot on the comer of 2300 and Fort Union. Mr. Spung
noted that animals that are spayed or neutered are generally less aggressive than animals that are not.
As a result, it is common for cities to have a lower fee for sterilized animals.

Council Member Suzanne Hyland clarified that there are two separate but related issues on the
agenda. The first is related to pet licensing. She asked whether the process is simple enough for
constituents to follow. When she looked into what someone has to do to license a pet, it involved
downloading and completing a form, then returning the form with three other documents. Staff
reviews the form and documents and then there is a phone call made about the payment. The process
is a little bit cumbersome and does notincentivize all residents to license their pets. Another issue is
that the costs are not covering the Staff time it takes to process each license. There can be a discussion
about whether it makes sense to continue requiring pets to be licensed, especially since so many are
microchipped now. Ifthere is a desire to continue to require licensing, there can be a discussion about
how to appropriately adjust the fee and simplify the overall process.

Council Member Hyland reported that the off-leash discussion is a separate issue. She received a text
message from the Attorney General, Derek Brown, who was concerned after someone contacted him
about being charged with a misdemeanor for an off-leash situation. In that text exchange, the
Attomey~General expressed support for issuing a warning first. If there were a subsequent problem,
then there would be support for a misdemeanor. However, it turned out that is what happened in that
particular case. This person had a previous citation from Sandy City for being off-leash. The citation
this year was for having his dogs off-leash near a Home Depot location.

Council Member Hyland suggested that the City look at the penalties for off-leash situations. In
addition, she would like some additional clarification about what off-leash means. For instance, if
someone has a shock collar and is within 10 feet of their dog, she wondered whether that would be
considered off-leash. This was confirmed. Anything that is not tethered is considered off-leash.

Chief Russo reported that the off-leash standards are important. Off-leash dogs can chase people or
other animals, which can lead to serious issues. He believes the fines, which are approximately $100,
are too low. Officers are taught to handle issues at the lowest possible level. Normally, when there
is an off-leash issue, the individual will be asked to put a leash on the animal. If that does not work,
there could be a warning or citation. The objective is to achieve compliance.

Mayor Weichers asked about an infraction being a misdemeanor versus a citation. Chief Russo feels
strongly that it should be a misdemeanor. Most of the time, people will shift to compliance, but when

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for September 2, 2025       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       2
that does not happen, it needs to be taken seriously. As for licensing efficiency, it is possible to make
some improvements. He does not believe everyone who needs to be licensed is currently licensed,
so it is important to incentivize residents to come into compliance. Chief Russo discussed the
licensing fees in place, which are $25 for unste1ilized and $5 for sterilized. This is the lowest in the
County. It is possible to look into increasing those numbers. He added that microchipping is an
excellent tool, but sometimes, the animals change owners and the information is not updated. In
addition, it is not an efficient process because there is no central database.

There was discussion about the licensing process. Mayor Weichers asked about an education
campaign as well as a process that was done completely online. He believed there would be more
compliance. Chief Russo expressed support for that approach. Council Member Hyland reiterated
that the current process includes filling out a form as well as uploading a rabies certificate, sterilization
information, and microchip information. There are multiple steps in the current process. She stressed
the importance of simplifying it as much as possible to increase compliance.

Mr. Spung explained that there is no online platform in place that will integrate with the accounting
software. It takes Staff approximately one-half hour per permit to collect all of the information,
process the information, enter the payment, and file the information. There are a lot of inefficiencies
associated with the current process, but to make it more efficient would involve the purchase of some
sort of software program. Mayor Weichers believed it was possible to find something that increases
the overall efficiency, but does not cost a lot of money.

Council Member Holton reported that on the east side of the City, there is an off-leash dog park. He
asked if there had been any impact on neighboring parks or on resident behaviors. Council Member
Birrell stated that she previously presented an idea to the Council about portable chain link fencing
that could be moved every three months or so. One of the arguments against park locations for off-
leash dogs is that the grass becomes trampled. However, if the fencing was moved every three
months, then the grass would be less impacted. As wonderful as Ferguson Park is, it is not very
friendly to walk there. It would be nice to have portable areas in a few parks.

Council Member Holton shared infonnation about Crestwood Park. He explained that there is an
issue with leash compliance because he has received calls about people who have been bitten. Council
Member Hyland is skeptical that off-leash park space would decrease the number of off-leash dogs
in the neighborhoods. Council Member Shawn Newell discussed visiting Ferguson Park with his
dog. He believes there needs to be more spaces available for dogs to be able to run. That being said,
a lot comes down to responsible ownership. If a dog bites an animal or person, that is the
responsibility of the owner and a citation is appropriate. Council Member Holton wants residents to
know that having an animal off-leash in on-leash areas will result in consequences.

Mayor Weichers pointed out that there are two issues: pet licensing and off-leash animals. There was
something in the letter from Chief Russo about pet licensing that made a lot of sense to him. It was
pointed out that families do not always stay together. In those cases, the animal goes with whoever
has their name on the pet license. Mayor Weichers believes it is possible to create a simpler licensing
process. There can also be an education component associated with this change.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for September 2, 2025          Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       3
Chief Russo suggested that both of the fees be raised. There was also a suggestion made for a tiered
fine schedule, where a first offence was $100 and the second offence was $300. Mr. Spung explained
that a challenge with the online portal for animal permitting is that the vaccination and rabies
certificates need to be verified before the payment can be submitted by the resident. While he agrees
it is possible to improve the overall efficiency of the process, there are some limitations.

There was discussion about microchipping and the license renewal process. Council Member Hyland
believed there needs to be an incentive to come into compliance. Council Member Holton asked
whether Chief Russo would return to the City Council with some recommendations on the fees. Chief
Russo confirmed that he can do some comparisons with other cities and there can be a collaborative
effort to determine an appropriate fee. The City Council further discussed streamlining the license
process. Mr. Gerber explained that there can be issues when someone pays a fee before approval is
granted. There can be a misconception that it has been approved.

Council Member Hyland reiterated that pet licensing has to be simplified and incentivized in order to
achieve compliance. The Council discussed impound fees and the process in place. Mayor Weichers
asked Chief Russo to look further into the fee for licensing and asked Staff to look into increasing
efficiencies when it comes to the licensing process. There can be continued discussion.

        3.2     Civil Code Enforcement Discussion - City Manager, Jared Gerber.

Mr. Gerber reported that he has spoken to a few different cities about civil code enforcement. There
are a lot of cities that are moving into a hybrid model where criminal code enforcement remains, but
civil code enforcement has been looked into as well. The end goal is compliance. With civil code
enforcement, there are fines rather than a criminal conviction. The process is an administrative
citation where there is a Hearing Office that issues fines or liens. The struggle that other cities have
had is how to collect those fines. That is the reason for a hybrid system, so there is still an option to
prosecute criminally, because there are some people who will refuse to pay the fines and refuse to
come int9 compliance. This makes it possible to address repeat offenders.

The burden of proof between criminal and civil is different. Mr. Gerber reported that with criminal,
there needs to be proof beyond a reasonable doubt that there is a violation, but with civil, the burden
of proof is on the violator. On the civil side, there is also some more flexibility, but the most common
issue has to do with the collection of fines. Council Member Hyland noted that the Meeting Materials
Packet mentions Civil/Administrative and Hybrid. She asked what the difference is between the two.
Mr. Gerber reported that if there is a desire to look into the administrative route in Cottonwood
Heights, there would need to be an amendment to the code, the City would need to set fines and a fee
structure, and an Administrative Law Judge would need to be hired. The cost could increase, but it
has the potential to reduce court costs. He clarified that a hybrid approach would require changes to
the ordinance as well, as there would need to be a structure and fee schedule detennined for a civil
enforcement process. Chief Russo shared some example scenarios and explained that most people
are willing to come into compliance.

Council Member Hyland asked what might come before an Administrative Law Judge other than
something like a short-term rental violation. It was noted that there could be nuisance violations.
Chief Russo reported that South Salt Lake uses this process. Mr. Spung believes that enforcement

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for September 2, 2025       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       4
for most people is an educational tool. Often, someone is violating an ordinance but is not aware.
Once notice is received, the situation is remedied fairly quickly. Council Member Hyland pointed
out that the City would not need to hire an Administrative Law Judge, as it would be possible to
contract with one. There was discussion about the best approach.

Council Member Newell believes it makes sense to have both civil and criminal options available
because if something significant happens, the City needs to be able to take appropriate action. Council
Member Hyland suggested waiting to see whether software can bring some of the short-te1m rentals
into compliance. Council Member Birrell pointed out that a lot of the offenders are long-term rentals
rather than short-term rentals, because short-term rentals rely on high ratings from visitors. Council
Member Hyland noted that it is possible to discuss long-term rental licensing. Many cities require
long-term rental licenses, but Cottonwood Heights does not.

Mayor Weichers asked for additional information about the nuisance violation process. Chief Russo
explained that there are a lot of variables. On occasion, a person is unable to address the violation on
their own, so it is possible to check in with family members or look into church resources. Other
times, there might be someone who does not want to address the violation. In that case, a warning
would be issued, and the Code Enforcement Officer would come back. There is discretion provided
to the Code Enforcement Officer. Mayor Weichers wanted to know what would happen if a warning
was issued and nothing had changed by the time the Code Enforcement Officer returned. He believed
there would be a citation issued. Chief Russo confirmed this. It was noted that the court would
determine what the remedy would be.

Council Member Hyland stated that one of the challenges is that the courts can be lenient. She
wondered whether a civil process would be preferable. Chief Russo is not certain that the outcome
would be different, but with a civil process, it would be possible to lien the property. Mayor Weichers
noted that the prosecutors were invited to the Police Banquet. He asked if it is possible to ask that
these kinds of situations be taken more seriously in the City. Chief Russo thought that discussion
would be beneficial. Mayor Weichers stated that there will be an evaluation of the software and how
that works before there are additional discussions about this matter.

        3.3     Employee Appeals Board Appointments - City Manager, Jared Gerber.

Mr. Gerber reported that the City Code requires there to be an Employee Appeals Board, which
consists of one person. It has to be in place if an employee appeals any disciplinary action, per the
State Code. If someone appeals a decision, there are 10 days to respond, but currently, there is no
Employee Appeals Board in place. The code allows the City Manager to have a list available, which
is what will be voted on during the Business Meeting. City Attorney, Shane Topham, reached out to
three attorneys who agreed to work with the City. Each provided their rates. The recommendation
before the City Council tonight is that those names be added to the Employee Appeals Board. After
four years, this will need to be renewed, but it is important to have something in place in case there
ever is an appeal. There is nothing currently pending or anticipated.

Mayor Weichers asked if employee contracts state that this step is required. Mr. Topham explained
that the City is required by Statute to provide an Employee Appeals Board to hear certain types of
appeals. It was added that most City employees do not have employment contracts.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for September 2, 2025      Approved: _ __ _ _ _

                                                       5
        3.4     Curfew Discussion - Citv Manager, Jared Gerber.

Mayor Weichers noted that there have been recent violations of the curfew ordinance, particularly on
the Brighton High School property. Mr. Gerber reported that the current code sets the curfew at 11 :00
p.m. for minors under 16. Those who are 16 to 18 have a curfew of 1:00 a.m. Council Member
Hyland explained that there have been noise disturbances. There have been responses to 239 calls in
six months. There was discussion about some of the issues that have taken place in the parking lot.
Mayor Weichers reported that, based on the conversations he has had so far, there is no interest in
adding gates to the area. Council Member Hyland explained that it would cost approximately
$100,000 to do so. Part of the problem is the process, because there would need to be a custodian
working a few hours later in order to lock the gates. Some dances and games run late, and in those
instances, parents could be locked in behind the gates. She wondered whether there would be more
support for the gates if some of the process problems were solved.

Mayor Weichers commented that this behavior needs to be discouraged, but he is not sure the curfew
is the only way to do so. Mr. Gerber explained that it is possible to approach the School District about
signage that would make it possible to trespass underage individuals who were there after hours unless
there was a special event. Mayor Weichers believed that currently, a 17-year-old could park in the
back parking lot and legally be allowed there until 1:00 a.m. This was denied. Chief Russo explained
that when the school is closed, it is not legal for students to park there.

Council Member Hyland reported that nearby residents deal with the traffic volume and noise
problems. It makes sense to look into mitigation. Mayor Weichers pointed out that the curfew is
already in place. There was additional discussion about the existing issues. Council Member Hyland
stated that it is possible for the City to push the School District to do more to reach a resolution. It
was reiterated that there were 239 calls in six months for Brighton High School.

        3.5     FlashVote Discussion - Citv Manager, Jared Gerber.

Mayor Weichers discussed FlashVote and explained that there are six opportunities to question
residents. The City Manager will now lead a discussion on the topics proposed for the remaining
surveys, so there can be a decision made about what to include in the next one. Mr. Gerber reported
that several possible topics were remaining after the last discussion, which include:

    •   Taxation and Affordability;
    •   Short-Term Rentals;
    •   Transportation and Intersection Safety;
    •   General Plan.

It might be an appropriate time to focus on the General Plan, because the Draft General Plan will be
shared with the Planning Commission tomorrow night. It will be brought to the City Council on
September 16, 2025. There is then a process that needs to be followed. As a result, it might be a
good time to ask residents about the General Plan. Council Member Newell thought it made sense to
look into the General Plan or short-term rentals. Mayor Weichers stressed the importance of the
surveys being relevant to residents. Council Member Birrell pointed out that many residents are

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for September 2, 2025      Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                       6
concerned with speeding and intersection safety. It would be interesting to find out whether this is a
concern that is shared City-wide. Mayor Weichers thinks there should be defined objectives
detennined. For example, to find out whether residents feel speed limits are too high.

Council Member Binell believes it is important to note that slower speeds result in less serious
injuries, but also pointed out that there cannot be leading questions. Mayor Weichers stated that
lowering the speed limit will not necessarily slow a driver down, because a driver will drive as fast
as they feel comfortable. Council Member Binell commented that there could be questions about
whether there is interest in some City funding being spent to redesign roads to result in slower speeds.
Council Member Holton expressed concerns about using a snapshot sample to drive certain policy
decisions. He does not want policy decisions to be made or pushed for without thorough input from
each of the districts. Council Member Hyland reminded those present that data infonns, but it does
not decide. Council Member Holton sees the value of gaining feedback on different topics, but wants
to be cautious about the topics and the questions posed.

Mayor Weichers likes the question suggested by Council Member Birrell about whether a survey
respondent would like to see the City spend money to redesign certain roads to slow down vehicles.
Council Member Birrell is interested in seeing what questions FlashVote will create. Council
Member Hyland reported that FlashVote shared several survey examples via email. She shared a
property tax survey example and read some of the questions aloud. There could be something created
that was relevant to Cottonwood Heights. Council Member Holton pointed out that the previous
survey was related to priorities. As a follow-up to that survey, it would make sense to ask what there
is a willingness to put more resources towards. Council Member Newell explained that the survey
can be an educational tool because it will create more awareness.

Council Member Birrell likes the idea of shorter surveys and expressed support for FlashVote. She
pointed out that there are a lot of misconceptions, which is the reason public engagement is so
important. Council Member Hyland wondered whether it would be possible for FlashVote to share
an example of a survey with tax questions. It might also be possible to ask them ifthere are questions
related to_traffic and speed limits, so the Council can start reviewing the options. There was Council
consensus to look into resident pri01ities for tax dollars. Council Member Birrell would like to see a
set of four questions from FlashVote based on the topics that the Council is most interested in.
Council Member Holton believed there would need to be information included in the survey to state:
"Though there are no current plans for a tax increase, the City would like to receive feedback related
to future planning." If there were additional resources available, it would be possible to focus on
public safety, road improvements, parks and open space, and so on.

Mayor Weichers asked if it would make sense to list services and have them ranked from 1 to 5 to
indicate where tax dollars should be allocated. Council Member Holton believed FlashVote could
create a draft for City Council review at a future meeting. There was discussion about possible
questions and language. Council Member Hyland read the following: "If we were able to increase
revenues, what do you think would be a good use of that money?" The options included: increase
City speed limit enforcement, faster street repaving and maintenance, develop and maintain more
trails, parks, and open spaces, and new programs to retain and attract local businesses. She wants to
rely on FlashVote to provide some examples to the City Council for consideration.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for September 2, 2025      Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       7
There was additional discussion about potential survey questions. Mayor Weichers explained that it
is important to make it clear that there is no plan to raise taxes. He suggested a question that asked:
"How would you prioritize your tax dollars?" There could be a list of options provided. Mr. Gerber
reported that he will reach out to FlashVote and something will be drafted for review.

Council Member Hyland asked that there be a future agenda item related to the traffic issues near
Brighton High School. There could be a discussion about noise, speed, and other issues there.

4.0    REVIEW OF CALENDAR AND UPCOMING EVENTS.

       4.1      Friday, September 12 at 3:00 p.m. - Mural Ribbon Cutting at Golden Hills Park.
       4.2      Friday, September 26 from 5:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. - Community Block Party at
                Hillside Plaza.
       4.3      Friday, October 10 - 6:30 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. at City Hall - Special Effects
                Halloween Makeup Workshop.
       4.4      Friday, October 24 - Monster Mash from 5:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. at CWH Rec
                Center.
       4.5      Monday, December 1 - 5:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. at City Hall- Light the Heights.
       4.6      Saturday, December 6 - 7:30 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. at Butler Middle School -
                Christmas Concert with Eclipse 6.

The calendar items were reviewed and discussed. Information about the Community Block Party was
shared. Mayor Weichers asked if the whole parking lot would be portioned off. It was noted that
there still needs to be parking left over for the businesses on either end. Council Member Birrell
suggested there be information boards at parks so residents are aware of the different City events.
Social media can be used to educate residents, but not everyone seeks out information that way. It
was noted that there can be difficulties associated with information boards, especially if someone
added something with divisive language. The calendar items were further discussed.

Mayor Weichers asked about the Special Effects Halloween Makeup Workshop that is scheduled to
take place at City Hall. Council Member Newell reported that the person leading this workshop can
create wounds that look realistic. This person will provide a kit to participants and teach them how
to create something that can be worn on Halloween. Registration is required, as spaces are limited.
Mayor Weichers suggested that this event be shared on social media so there is awareness of the need
to register ahead of time. He reviewed the rest of the calendar items.

5.0     POSSIBLE CLOSED MEETING TO DISCUSS LITIGATION; REAL PROPERTY
        PURCHASE OR LEASE; THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
        COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH OF AN INDIVIDUAL;
        AND/OR ANOTHER PERMITTED PURPOSE UNDER UCA 52-2-205.

There was no Closed Meeting.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for September 2, 2025     Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       8
6.0     ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION.

MOTION: Council Member Newell moved to ADJOURN the City Council Work Session. The
motion was seconded by Council Member Holton. The motion passed with the unanimous consent
of the Council.

The Work Session adjourned at 5:39 PM.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for September 2, 2025   Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       9
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
HELD TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2025, AT 7:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD,
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Members Present:        Mayor Mike Weichers, Council Member Matt Holton, Council Member Ellen
                        Birrell, Council Member Suzanne Hyland, Council Member Shawn Newell

Staff Present:          City Manager, Jared Gerber; City Attorney, Shane Topham; Police Chief,
                        Robby Russo; Finance Director, Scott Jurges; Records, Culture, and Human
                        Resources Director, Barbara Higgins; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen;
                        Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; IT Manager,
                        Matt Ervin; Public Works Director and City Engineer, Matt Shipp; Unified
                        Fire Authority, Riley Pilgrim

1.0     WELCOME

Mayor Mike Weichers called the City Council Business Meeting to order at 7:00 PM.

2.0     PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE

Council Member Matt Holton led the Pledge of Allegiance.

3.0     CITIZEN COMMENTS

Mayor Weichers opened the Citizen Comment period.

Maggie Mills shared updates about the Whitmore Library. She reported that a lot of the regularly
scheduled programming is returning. The Chess Club for all ages and abilities will be on Wednesday
nights at 6:00 p.m. Produce Swap will take place on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday until the end of
the month. On September 8, 2025, there is a Raptor Program, where HawkWatch International will
bring three different raptors for children and families to learn about. The Babcock Performing
Readers will perform on September 18, 2025, at 7:00 p.m. In addition, there is a Puppet Show planned
on September 5, 2025, at 11 :00 a.m . A lot is happening this month.

There were no further comments. The Citizen Comment period was closed.

4.0     ACTION ITEMS

        4.1      Consideration of Resolution 2025-64 - Approving an Appointment to the Parks,
                 Trails, and Open Space (PTOS) Committee. (This Resolution will approve the
                 Manager's appointment of Scott Simonsen to the City's Parks, Trails, and Open
                 Space Advisory Committee).

Mayor Weichers reported that Resolution 2025-64 is the appointment of Scott Simonsen to the Parks,
Trails, and Open Space Committee, which was discussed during the Work Session. City Manager,

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for September 2, 2025   Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       10
Jared Gerber, stated that there is excitement about having a full Committee. Council Member Holton
expressed his gratitude for the work of the Committee. Mr. Simonsen has young children in
elementary school and will bring a different perspective to the Committee work.

MOTION: Council Member Birrell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2025-64 - Approving an
Appointment to the Parks, Trails, and Open Space Committee. The motion was seconded by Council
Member Holton. Vote on Motion: Council Member Holton-Aye; Council Member Hyland-Aye;
Council Member Newell-Aye; Council Member Birrell-Aye; Mayor Weichers- Aye. The motion
passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.

        4.2     Consideration of Resolution 2025-65 - Approving the Employee Appeals Board.
                (Utah Code Ann. §10-3-1106 requires each Utah city to provide an appeal authority
                to hear appeals by city employees concerning certain specified employment actions
                by the city, with the appeal authority's number of members, procedure for
                conducting appeals, etc., prescribed by City Ordinance. Cottonwood Heights Code
                §2.180.020(A) provides that the City's Appeal Board for any specific appeal shall
                consist of an individual selected by the City Manager and approved by the City
                Council. To facilitate the timely appointment ofan appeal authority for each future
                employee appeal, by this Resolution the Council will approve a roster of qualified
                individuals to hear any such future appeals and will delegate to the Manager the
                power to select from that pre-approved roster a specific individual to act as the City's
                Appeal Board for each such future appeal).

Mayor Weichers reported that Resolution 2025-65 was discussed during the Work Session. Council
Member Ellen Bi1Tell thanked Staff for putting this together on behalf of the City.

MOTION: Council Member Newell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2025-65 - Approving the
Employee Appeals Board. The motion was seconded by Council Member Birrell. Vote on Motion:
Council Member Holton-Aye; Council Member Hyland-Aye; Council Member Newell-Aye; Council
Member Birrell-Aye; Mayor Weichers- Aye. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the
Council.

        4.3     Consideration of Resolution 2025-66 - Approving a Grant Agreement with the
                Utah Division of Arts and Museums for FY 2025-2026. (This Resolution will
                approve the City's entry into an Agreement whereunder the Utah Division of Arts
                and Museums will grant $3,800 to the City's Arts Council for its use during the
                current fiscal year).

Mayor Weichers reported that Resolution 2025-66 was discussed during the Work Session.

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to APPROVE Resolution 2025-66 -Approving a Grant
Agreement with the Utah Division of Arts and Museums for FY 2025-2026. The motion was
seconded by Council Member Holton. Vote on Motion: Council Member Holton-Aye; Council
Member Hyland-Aye; Council Member Newell-Aye; Council Member Birrell-Aye; Mayor
Weichers- Aye. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for September 2, 2025      Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       11
5.0    CONSENT CALENDAR

       5.1      Approval of the Minutes for the City Council Work Session and Business
                Meetings of August 19, 2025.

MOTION: Council Member Newell moved to APPROVE the Consent Calendar. The motion was
seconded by Council Member Birrell. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.

6.0    ADJOURN

MOTION: Council Member Holton moved to ADJOURN. The motion was seconded by Council
Member Hyland. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.

The City Council Business Meeting adjourned at 7:07 PM.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for September 2, 2025   Approved: _ _ __ __

                                                       12
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the
Cottonwood Heights City Council Work Session and City Council Business Meetings held Tuesday,
September 2, 2025.




Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved:--------- ~




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for September 2, 2025   Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      13
                 Cottonwood Heights
                  City bttUYfll t ht r,111yo111




                 Appendix 3

              STAFF REPORT

Cottonwood Canyon Cove Park Naming Discussion

                 Jared Gerber
Meeting Requested:            Business Meeting D    Work Session IZI   Other D
Public Hearing Needed?        Yes D No IZI Undetermined D
                              Denied D Approved IZI Continued D
CM Approval or Denial
                              CM Signature: - -~

Jared Gerber will lead a discussion on the naming of Cottonwood Canyon Cove Pa rk.
  ~   --..-.-C.I( ~          I



      Cottonwood Heights
      Cuy bm,'fm rl,r r,111Jo11s




      Appendix 4

 STAFF REPORT
General Plan Update

      Jared Gerber
Meeting Requested:           Business Meeting D     Work Session ~   Other D
Public Hearing Needed?       Yes D No ~ Undetermined D
                             Denied D Approved ~ Continued D
CM Approval or Denial
                             CM Signature:--~ ~

Presentation by Jim Spung regarding the General Plan Update.
         Cottonwood Heights
         Ory b~rwa11 rhr r,111y-0111




        Appendix 5

      STAFF REPORT
Emergency Management Report
        Sargent Bess
                                                                              Qfa;1r ,,
                                                                               c.@110: :ood Heights
                                                                                 C11J H1uff'J1 11¥ t,m,-,u




Meeting Requested:          Business Meeting D   Work Session !XI   Other D
Public Hearing Needed?      Yes D No !XI Undetermined D
                            Denied D Approved IZI Continued D
CM Approval or Denial
                            CM Signature:- -~_ij__
Presentation by Sergeant Bess on Emergency Management.
  Cottonwood Heights
  City bm,~m tlN r""J0"1




  Appendix 6

STAFF REPORT
 Action Items
 Shane Topham
Tiffan Janzen

From:                    Shane Topham <WST@tophamlegal.com>
Sent:                    Thursday, September 11 , 2025 9:13 AM
To:                      Jared Gerber; Tiffany Janzen
Subject:                 [EXT:]Legislation for 9/16
Attachments:             W5T-Cottonwood Heights-Ordinance 448 Adopting Amended Budget for 2025-2026.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-
                         Resolution 2025-67 Approving Appointment of a Treasurer.pdf



Greetings:

Drafts of the following items of legislation scheduled for consideration at the September 16th city council
business meeting are attached for your review and comment:

    1. Ordinance 448. This ordinance will approve the amendment of the city's FY 2025-26 budget as
       previously discussed.

    2. Resolution 2025-67. By this resolution, the council will approve the manager's appointment of
       Reid Sanderson as the city's new treasurer and financial reporting manager to replace recently
       retired David Muir.

Please contact me as soon as possible if there are any questions or concerns regarding the attachments.

Best regards-

Shane

WM. SHANE TOPHAM I Attorney I TOPHAM LEGAL
4930 Fairview Drive, Holladay, UT 84117
tel+801 .808.6325 I Bio

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: The content of this e-mail is confidential and proprietary and may be attorney-client
privileged . If you are not the intended recipient, please destroy it and notify: wst@tophamlegal.com.



 EXTERNAL ATTACHMENT: Only Open if you trust this sender.




                                                             1
                          Cottonwood Heights
                          Cuy bt111Ym the r,myo111




         CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING


                         Attachment 1
                        Ordinance 448
The Utah State Treasurer suggests that Utah cities amend their
budgets at least quarterly to reflect any necessary changes since
   the budget was adopted. This ordinance will approve an
     amendment to the city's current [2025-2026] budget.
Budget Adjustment Outline
September 16, 2025                                                                                     ~ ; / ~ghh

                     I          I           I                                                                          I
To:        City Manager, Mayor, City Council                           From:     Scott Jurges, Budget Officer          I
Date:      September 16, 2025               I
Re:        2025/2026 Budget Adjustments                                          I                  I                  I
Meeting Requested    I           Business Meeting        0             Work Session 0               I
                                                                                              other □
Public Hearing Needed?           Yes   0 1               No       □              I
                                                                                 Undetermined      □
CM Approval or Denial            Denied □                Approved      0          Continued                □
                                 CM Signature:


General Fund                                                                         Expense            Revenue               Net


1.         Granicus Software related to Short Term Rental analysis. $27,176               27,176                -               27,176



2.         Heating and Cooling Compressor and Accumulator replacement                     32,519                 -              32,519
           (Unexpected HVAC Repair). $32,519


3.         IT Storage, Retention, and Recovery requirements related to                    85,000                 -              85,000
           variou s Police Investigations and Evidence Mgt. $85,000


4.         Utah Arts and Museums Grant for the Arts Council, resolution 2025-              3,800              3,800                 -
           66. $3,800

5.         Transfer from CDRA to General Fund to cover capital projects                       -            349,682           (349,682)
           within the Fort Union and Cottonwood Corporate RDA's that were
           originally funded with General Fund money. $349,682


6.         Police DUI and other State of Utah Division of Public Safety                   10,610            10,610                   -
           reimbursed Overtime. $10,610


7.         Police EASY Alcohol enforcement overtime reimbursement $679                        679                679                 -




8.         Police overtime related to sporting events. $3655                                3,655              3,655                 -



9.         Police overtime related to the marathon - Brooksee. $7,310                       7,310              7,310                 -



10.        Police Contribution from Honorary Colonels for SWAT Van                          9,000              9,000                 -
           upgrades and Training


11.        Restitution for various incidents related to police actions. $50                       50                 50              -



                                                 General Fund Total I                    179,799           384,786            {204,987)



9/9/2025                                                      1 of 2           P:\ FINANCE\ SJurges\Budget\Budget Adjustment M emo 2025 09 16
Ca~ital Projects Fund                                                                      Expense         Revenue              Net




1.          Rebudget of unfinished projects remaining from the 2024/2025                   22,475,284     12,679,334          9,795,950
            budget year.
                       Includes:
                         The Heights GO Project                                            14,839,727      9,634,137          5,205,590
                         General Capital Projects                                           7,635,557      3,045,197          4,590,360

2.         Transfer from CDRA to Capital Projects Fund to cover capital                     1,242,638      1,242,638                  -
           projects identified for use of the remaining funds within the Fort
            Union ($952,294) and Cottonwood Corporate ($290,344) RDA's,
            $1,242,638


3.         Budget the Canyon Centre Park that is paid from funds transferred                 617,222               -            617,222
           from t he CDRA fund. Total Funds available t o date $617,222



4.          Sundown Sidewalk repairs. Fund from remain ing fund balance.                       61,721              -              61,721
            $61,721



                                           Capital Projects Fund Total                     24,335,144     13,921,972         10,413,172



Storm Water Fund                                                                            Expense        Revenue              Net




1.          Rebudget of unfinished projects remaining from the 2024/2025                      573,017               -           573,017
            budget year.



                                              Storm Water Fund Total                          573,017 .                 -       573,017



CDRA Fund                                                                                   Expense        Reven ue             Net




1.          Transfer from CDRA to General Fund to cover capital projects                      349,682               -            349,682
            within the Fort Union and Cottonwood Corporate RDA's that were
            originally funded with General Fund money. $349,682

2.          Transfer from CDRA to Capital Projects Fund to cover capital                    1,242,638               -         1,242,638
                                                                                      ,-
            projects identified for use of the remain ing funds within t he Fort
            Union ($952,294) and Cottonwood Corporate ($290,344) RDA's,
            $1,242,638



           I                                  Debt Service Fund Total                       1,592,320                   -     1,592,320
           I                                   I

9/9/2025                                                      2 of 2               P:\FINANCE\SJurges\Budget\Budget Adjustment Memo 2025 09 16
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                      ORDINANCE No. 448


                  AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AN AMENDED BUDGET
                FOR THE PERIOD OF 1 JULY 2025 THROUGH 30 JUNE 2026

         WHEREAS, the Unifo1m Fiscal Procedures Act for Utah Cities (the "Act" ) provides,
among other things, that prior to adoption by a city's governing body of a municipal budget, the
city' s mayor or other budget officer shall propose a tentative budget which shall be reviewed,
considered and tentatively adopted by the governing body in open meeting, whereupon (a) the
governing body shall establish the time and place of a public hearing to consider the adoption of
the tentative budget; (b) the tentative budget shall be a public record in the office of the city's
recorder available for public inspection for a period of at least ten days prior to the adoption of a
final budget; (c) notice of the public hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city, and on the Utah Public Notices Website, at least seven days prior to the
public hearing; and (d) the public hearing shall be held; and

       WHEREAS, the Act also provides that amendments to a city's adopted budget may be
approved by resolution or ordinance following appropriate notice and a public hearing; and

        WHEREAS, pursuant to its Ordinance No. 443 ("Ordinance 443") dated 17 June 2025,
the city council (the "Council") of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City") adopted a budget
for the City' s 2025-2026 fiscal year and set the real and personal property tax levy for realty and
personalty within the City; and

      WHEREAS, the City's budget officer heretofore has filed with the Council a proposed
amended budget (the "Amended Budget") for the City's cuITent fiscal year; and

       WHEREAS, the Amended Budget has been reviewed by the Council; and

       WHEREAS, the time and place of a public hearing regarding adoption of the Amended
Budget were set for 7:00 p.m. on 16 September 2025 at 2277 East Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood
Heights, Utah; and

       WHEREAS, notice of the public hearing concerning the Amended Budget was timely
posted and published as required by statute; and

        WHEREAS, the public hearing was held beginning at approximately 7:00 p.m. on 16
September 2025 to receive public comment on the Amended Budget as set fo11h in the published
notice; and

        WHEREAS, at the public hearing, all interested persons were given an oppo11unity to be
heard; and

        WHEREAS, on 16 September 2025 the Council met in regular session to consider, among
other things, approving the Amended Budget as proposed; and
       WHEREAS, it is the intent and desire of the Council to comply with all applicable laws
regarding adoption of the Amended Budget and ratification of the prope1ty tax rate and the levying
of prope1ty taxes as provided in Ordinance 443 ; and

         WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council finds that it has satisfied all legal
requirements to adopt the Amended Budget and to ratify the tax rate and levy prope1ty taxes as
provided in Ordinance 443 , and that it is in the best interests of the citizens of the City to adopt the
Amended Budget presented at the 16 September 2025 public heaiing as the amended final budget
for the City for the period in question, and to ratify the rate of prope1ty tax and to levy taxes upon
all real and personal property within the City as provided in Ordinance 443;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Cottonwood Heights city council as
follows:

        Section 1.      Adoption ofAmended Budget.

               A      The Amended Budget presented at the 16 September 2025 public hearing
(as heretofore modified by the Budget Officer under Council direction, including the amendments
specified on any exhibits that are attached to this Ordinance) be, and hereby is, appropriated for
the corporate purposes and objects of the City for the fiscal year in question, and hereby is adopted
as the City's final budget for the period of 1 July 2025 through 30 June 2026, subject to
amendment.

               B.     A copy of the Amended Budget adopted hereby shall be certified and filed
with the Utah State Auditor, as appropriate, and shall be available for public inspection during
regular business hours at the City's business offices.

                C.     The City's manager and other officers are hereby directed to take any other
necessaiy actions pertinent to the adoption of the Amended Budget, including, without limitation,
such notification, rep01ting and publishing as may be required by applicable law.

              D.     Amounts in excess of the City' s cash requirements shall be deposited in the
investment fund maintained by the state treasurer under the State Money Management Act, UTAH
CODE ANN. §51-7-1 et seq.


       Section 2.    Property Tax Rate and Levy. Section 2 of Ordinance 443 is hereby ratified,
affitmed and incorporated herein by this reference.

        Section 3.     Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in confo1mity with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance, whether taken before or
after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confitmed and approved.

       Section 4.     Severabilitv. All paits of this Ordinance are severable, and if any section,
paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason, be held to be invalid or
unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section, paragraph, clause or
provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or provisions of this
Ordinance.

                                                    2
         Section 5.     Repealer. All ordinances or paits thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

        Section 6.      Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 448, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City's Recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 16th day of September 2025.


ATTEST:                                      COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By: _ _ _ _ __ __ _ __ _ _                    By: - -- - - - - - - - -- - - -
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                      Michael T. Weichers, Mayor


                                             VOTING:

                                             Michael T. Weichers           Yea _ Nay _
                                             Matt Holton                   Yea _ Nay_
                                             Suzanne Hyland                Yea_Nay _
                                             Shawn E. Newell               Yea_Nay_
                                             Ellen BiITell                 Yea _ Nay_

       DEPOSITED in the Recorder's office this 16th day of September 2025.

       POSTED this_ day of September 2025.




                                                3
                      ~   ~       - -..( » \ '

                              Cottonwood Heights
                              C11y bt1t,w11 the m11yo111




                          Attachment 2
                     Resolution 2025-67
This resolution will approve the manager's appointment of Reid
 Sanderson as the city's new treasurer and financial reporting
        manager, to replace recently retired David Muir.
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                  RESOLUTION No. 2025-67

                   A RESOLUTION APPROVING THE APPOINTMENT OF A
                   TREASURER AND FINANCIAL REPORTING MANAGER

        WHEREAS, UTAH CODE A NN.§ 10-3-916 requires appointment of a treasurer in all cities
of the third, fourth or fifth class and towns; and

       WHEREAS, the city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City") is a city of the third class and
has created the position of treasurer in the City's administration; and

       WHEREAS, applicable law requires and/or empowers the manager (the "Manager") of
the City to appoint, with the advice and consent of the city council (the "Council"), a qualified
person to the office of treasurer; and

       WHEREAS, the Manager, has informed the Council that he desires to appoint Reid
Sanderson as treasurer and financial repo1ting manager for the City, with the City's mayor joining
in such action; and

        WHEREAS, the Council met in regular session on 16 September 2025 to consider, among
other things, giving advice and consenting to the appointment of Mr. Sanderson as h·easurer and
financial repo1ting manager for the City; and

       WHEREAS, the Council has examined the qualifications of Mr. Sanderson and 1s
otherwise familiar with him; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has dete1mined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the City to give advice and to consent
to the appointment of Mr. Sanderson as treasurer and financial repmting manager for the City;

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights that the Council hereby gives advice and consents to the appointment of Reid Sanderson
as treasurer and financial repo1ting manager for the City.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2025-67, shall take effect immediately upon passage as
provided herein.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 16th day of September 2025.


ATTEST:                                        COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By: - - - -- - - - - - - - -
     Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                       Michael T. Weichers, Mayor
                                   VOTING:

                                   Michael T. Weichers         Yea_Nay_
                                   Matt Holton                 Yea_Nay_
                                   Suzanne Hyland              Yea_Nay_
                                   Shawn E. Newell             Yea_Nay_
                                   Ellen Birrell               Yea_Nay_

DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 16th day of September 2025.

RECORDED this_ day of September 2025.




                                     -2-
