Meeting Requested:       Business Meeting D   Work Session ~   Other D
Public Hearing Needed?   Yes □ No ~   Undetermined D
                         Denied D Approved ~ COJ:IJinued 0
CM Approval or Denial
                         CM Signature:--~



Appendix I -Agendas for October 7, 2025, City Council Work Session, CDRA and Business
Meeting
Appendix 2 - Meeting Minutes for City Council Meetings on 9/16/2025

Appendix 3 - Staff Report/ Butlerville Days Report Ann Eatchel

Appendix 4 - Staff Report/ General Plan Update Jim Spung

Appendix 5 - Staff Report/ Flash Vote Survey Discussion Jared Gerber

Appendix 6 - Staff Report/Fraud Risk Assessment Scott Jurges

Appendix 7 - Staff Report/ Action Items Shane Topham


CORA BUSINESS MEETING
Attachment 1 - Resolution 2025-05

CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
Attachment 1 - Resolution 2025-68
                      { ~,

            Cottonwood Heights
            Ctry bnu-«11 1hr m11J-0111




            Appendix 1

          October 7, 2025

City Council Work Session, CORA and
      Business Meeting Agendas
                                 00-~,,
                                    ~ Cityf!o:~ood
                                           br11vun the
                                                       Heights
                                                     cnll)'OIU




            NOTICE OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
                       WORK SESSION AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights City Council will hold a Work Session at
approximately 4:00 p.m., or soon thereafter, on Tuesday, October 7, 2025, in the Cottonwood
Heights City Council Work Room located at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood Heights,
Utah. The public may remotely view the open portions of the meeting through live broadcast by
connecting to https://www.youtube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams, the city's YouTube
channel.


4:00 p.m.     1.     WELCOME - Mayor Mike Weichers

              2.     REVIEW OF BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA
                     Mayor Mike Weichers (10-15 min.)

              3.     STAFF REPORTS
                     (Each week the city council and staffprovide informational reports as a method of
                     keeping up on the day-to-day activities ofthe city. This agenda item is set aside to
                     allow council members to ask questions or for staffto bring the council up to date
                     regarding any changes since the report was made).

                   a. Butlerville Days Report
                      Culture M anager Ann Eatchel (20 min.)
                   b. General Plan Discussion
                      Community and Economic D evelopment Director Jim Spung (60 min.)
                   c. Flash Vote Survey Discussion
                      City Manager Jared Gerber (20 min.)
                   d. Fraud Risk Assessment
                      Finance Director Scott Jurges (10 min.)


              4.     REVIEW OF CALENDARS AND UPCOMING EVENTS*
                     a. Friday, October 10th from 6:30 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. at City Hall - Special
                        Effects Halloween Makeup Workshop (Open to community members
                        ages 14+, cost is $20)
                     b. Wednesday, October 15th from 1 :30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. at City Hall -
                        Senior Social
                     c. Friday, October 24 th from 5:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. at CWH Rec Center-
                        Monster Mash
                     d. Friday, October 31 st from 3:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. at City Hall Parking
                        Lot - Trunk or Treat
                     e. November 17th through January 5 th - Winter Lobby Art Display
                     f. Monday, December 1st from 5:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. at City Hall - Light
        the Heights
     g. Saturday, December 6 th from 7:30 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. at Butler Middle -
        Christmas Concert with Eclipse 6

     *For more information, please visit CH UTAH.GOV and click Community
      Calendar


5.   POSSIBLE   CLOSED    MEETING   TO   DISCUSS
     LITIGATION; REAL PROPERTY PURCHASE OR
     LEASE; THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
     COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH
     OF AN INDIVIDUAL; AND/OR ANOTHER PERMITTED
     PURPOSE UNDER UCA 52-2-205

6.   ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION
                NOTICE OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND
               RENEWAL AGENCY BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights Community Development and Renewal
Agency will hold a Business Meeting beginning at or about 6:00 p.m. on Tuesday, October 7,
2025, in the Cottonwood Heights Council Work Room located at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard,
Cottonwood Heights, Utah. The public may remotely view the open portions of the meeting
through    live   broadcast    by   connecting to       the   city's   YouTube channel:
https://www.voutube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams.

6:00 p.m.         1.0     WELCOME - Chair Mike Weichers
                 2.0      Consideration of Resolution 2025-05 Approving and Ratifying a "Real
                          Property Purchase Agreement" and Related Documents for Realty within
                          the Town Center at 2300 East Fort Union Community Reinvestment Project
                          Area.
                          (By this resolution the board will approve and ratify the agency's entry into a
                          purchase agreement and related documents in connection with the agency's
                          proposed purchase of 1 + acre of realty located at the Southeast corner of the
                          intersection of 2300 East and Fort Union Blvd. within the city's Town Center at
                          2300 East Fort Union community reinvestment project area.)

                 3.0      POSSIBLE   CLOSED    MEETING   TO   DISCUSS
                          LITIGATION; REAL PROPERTY PURCHASE OR
                          LEASE; THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
                          COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH
                          OF AN INDIVIDUAL; AND/OR ANOTHER PERMITTED
                          PURPOSE UNDER UCA 52-2-205.
                 4.0      APPROVAL OF MINUTES.
                          The minutes ofthis meeting will be approved through the following process: The Agency's
                          secretary promptly will circulate a draft copy of the minutes to the Board members, who
                          then will have three business days to provide any proposed corrections to the secretary.
                          The secretary will then circulate a revised draft of the minutes to the Board members, and
                          the same review process will continue until such time as no corrections to the draft minutes
                          are received within the three business days review period, whereupon that draft of the
                          minutes will be deemed approved and will become the final minutes of the meeting.

                  s.o     ADJOURN

On October 2, 2025, a copy oftheforegoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the front foyer ofthe Cottonwood
Heights City Offices, Cottonwood Heights, Utah. A copy of this notice was sent to the Salt Lake Tribune and Deseret
News, newspapers ofgeneral circulation in the city, by the Office of the City Recorder. The agenda was also posted on
the City's website at www.ch.utah.gov and the Utah Public Notice website at l111p:llp11111.11tah.go1•.

DATED this 2"d day of October 2025                                      Tiffany Janzen, Agency Secretary
The city building for this meeting is accessible. In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, people with
disabilities may make requestsfor reasonable accommodation or assistance by notifying the City Recorder at 801-944-
7021 or recorder(c1 ch.utah. g-m·, at least two business days before the meeting, or by calling Relay Utah at 711.
                                    ""'-1;;,-,tJ, , ~ \ '
                                          Cottonwood Heights
                                           City between the cnnyons


            NOTICE OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
                      BUSINESS :MEETING AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights City Council will hold a Business Meeting
beginning at approximately 7:00 p.m., or soon thereafter, on Tuesday, October 7, 2025, in the
Cottonwood Heights City Council Chambers located at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood
Heights, Utah. The public may remotely view the open portions of the meeting through live
broadcast by connecting to https://www.youtube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams, the
city's YouTube channel.
Persons physically attending the meeting in the City Council Chambers may make verbal comments
to the City Council when invited to do so, after completing a speaker comment card. Citizen
comments may also be submitted in writing to the city recorder at cityrecorder@ch.utah.gov by
noon, on the meeting date. In the interest of time and those attending the meeting live, however,
submitted written comments will be entered into the record and distributed to the City Council,
but will not be read at the public meeting.
Civility and decorum should be applied in all discussions and debates. Difficult questions,
tough challenges to a point of view, and criticism of ideas and information are legitimate elements
of a free democracy in action. Public officials and the public are encouraged to refrain from making
belligerent, personal, impertinent, slanderous, threatening, abusive, or disparaging comments.

7:00 p.m.      1.0     WELCOME - Mayor Mike Weichers

               2.0     PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE

               3.0    CITIZEN COMMENTS
                      During each regular city council meeting (specifically excluding work sessions),
                      there will be a period not to exceed sixty minutesfor citizen comment. "(Cottonwood
                      Heights Code of Ordinances 2.30.160 (BJ) Persons physically attending the meeting
                      in the City Council Chambers may make verbal comments to the City Council when
                      invited to do so by the meeting chair. Persons attending the meeting remotely may
                      not make verbal comments to the City Council during the meeting. Persons attending
                      the meeting remotely, or who do not attend the meeting either physically or remotely,
                      are invited to submit written comments to the City Recorder before Noon. on the
                      meeting date. Written comments that are timely submitted will be admitted into the
                      record ofthe meeting and distributed to the City Council but will not be read at the
                      public meeting.

               4.0     LANDSCAPE A WARDS
               4.1     Community and Economic Development Landscape Awards - Community
                       and Economic Development Director Jim Spung

               5.0     REPORTS
               5.1     Unified Fire Authority Quarterly Report - UFA Assistant Chief Riley
                       Pilgrim
                 6.0      ACTION ITEMS
                 6.1      Consideration of Resolution 2025-68 Declaring Certain Property Surplus.
                          (By this resolution, the council will declare surplus and designate the method of
                          disposition ofa 1998 Jnternational Command Post vehicle owned by the city).

                 7.0      CONSENTCALENDAR
                 7.1      Approval of the minutes for the City Council Work Session and Business
                          Meetings of September 16, 2025.

                 8.0      ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING

                                      PUBLIC COMMENT PROCEDURE
     During each City Council business meeting (specifically excluding work sessions), there will be a period
     not to exceed 60 minutes for citizen comment. (Code of Ordinances 2.30.160 (B)). Any person wishing
     to comment on any item not otherwise on the agenda for public comment may address the City Council
     during the Public Comment period. Any person wishing to comment during the Public Comment period
     shall request recognition by the Mayor and upon recognition, approach the microphone and state their
     name, state if they are a resident of Cottonwood Heights and either provide their address or their Council
     district; and then address the City Council. Any person wishing to comment shall limit their comments to
     no more than three (3) minutes unless more or less time is specified by the Mayor. Citizen groups who are
     present will be asked to appoint a spokesperson, who shall limit their comments to no more than five (5)
     minutes unless more or less time is specified by the Mayor. All comments shall be directed to the City
     Council. No person addressing the City Council during the comment period shaII be allowed to comment
     more than once during that comment period. Speakers should not expect any debate or dialogue with the
     Mayor, City Council or City Staff during the meeting.
     The City Council may choose to limit the amount of time allotted to public comment on a specific issue.
     In such cases, special procedures for determining who will be allowed to speak and the order of such
     speakers will be determined by the Council. In the interest of time and those attending the meeting live,
     submitted written comments will be entered into the record, distributed to the City Council but not read at
     the public meeting.


On Thursday, October 2, 2025, a copy ofthe foregoing notices was posted in conspicuous view in the front foyer ofthe
Cottonwood Heights City Offices, Cottonwood Heights, Utah. A copy of this notice was sent to the Salt Lake Tribune
and Deseret News, newspapers ofgeneral circulation in the city, by the Office ofthe City Recorder. The agendas were
also posted on the City's website at www.ch.utah.gov and the Utah Public Notice website at li11p://p111n.walt.gol'.

DATED this 2"d" day of October 2025                                     Tiffany Janzen, City Recorder

The city building for this meeting is accessible. In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, people with
disabilities may make requests for reasonable accommodation or assistance by notifying the City Recorder at 801-944-
7021 or recorder@-c/1.uta/1.go1·, at least two business days before the meeting, or by calling Relay Utah at 711 .
            Cottonwood Heights
            Ctry /,n14-er11 rhr l.",IIIJOfll




           Appendix 2

      MEETING MINUTES
City Council Meetings for 9/16/2025
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION HELD
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2025, AT 4:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
COUNCIL WORK ROOM LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD,
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Members Present:         Mayor Mike Weichers, Council Member Matt Holton, Council Member Ellen
                         Birrell, Council Member Suzanne Hyland, Council Member Shawn Newell

Staff Present:           City Manager, Jared Gerber; Police Chief, Robby Russo; Finance Director,
                         Scott Jurges; Records, Culture, and Human Resources Director, Barbara
                         Higgins; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen; Community and Economic
                         Development Director, Jim Spung; IT Manager, Matt Ervin; Public Works
                         Director and City Engineer, Matt Shi_pp; Unified Fire Authority, Riley Pilgrim;
                         Police Sargeant, Lance Bess

1.0       WELCOME - Mayor Mike Weichers.

Mayor Mike Weichers called the City Council Work Session to order at 4:00 PM.

2.0       REVIEW OF BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA - Mayor Mike Weichers.

Mayor Weichers reviewed the Meeting Agenda and stated that the Pledge of Allegiance would be led
by Council Member Highland, followed by City Council Committee Reports and the Citizen
Comment period.

Item 5.1 was a public hearing to receive input on the proposed Amended Budget for FY2025-2026.
Finance Director, Scott Jurges, gave an overview of the changes included in the amendment.

General Fund
   • Granicus software purchase related to short-term rentals: $27,176.

      •   Heating and cooling compressor and accumulator replacement: $32,519.
          This replacement is due to the unexpected failure of an approximately 10-year-old unit on the
          Police Department side of the building, which exceeded the yearly maintenance budget.

      •   lnfonnation techno1ogy storage, retention and recovery: $85,000.
          There had been a large increase in video-based evidence storage needs beginning in April.
          The funds will be used for on-site storage hardware, as well as backup cloud storage.

      •   Utah Arts and Museums Grant per resolution 2025-66 (income and expense): $3,800.

      •   Transfer from the CDRA Fund to cover capital projects in the Cottonwood Corporate area and
          Fort Union RDA: $349,682.
          Staff analysis determined that past projects in these areas were paid through the General Fund
          but were in the CDRA project areas.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for September 16, 2025      Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       1
   •    Police Fund reimbursements:
            o Utah Division of Public Safety related overtime: $10,610
            o Eliminating Alcohol Sales to Youth ("EASY") Alcohol Enforcement overtime: $679
            o Overtime related to sporting events: $3,655
            o Ove1time related to the Brooksee marathon: $7,310
            o Contribution from the Honorary Colonels for SWAT van upgrades and training:
               $9,000
            o Restitution for various incidents: $50

   •    Net increase in expenditures: approximately $180,000.

   •    Net increase in transfers or revenues: approximately $384,000.

   •    Net reduction in Use of Fund Balance: $204,987.

Capital Projects Fund
      Re-budget of prior year unfinished projects, including the Heights General Obligation Bond
      Project and other general capital projects. Mr. Jurges reported that the numbers for the Heights
      project would likely change again once the second bond closes.
          o Expenses: $22,475,284
          o Income: $12,679,334

    •   Transfer from CDRA Fund to Capital Projects Fund (expense and expense): $1,242,638
           o Cottonwood Corporate RDA: $290,364
           o Fort Union RDA: $952,294

    •   Transfer from the CDRA Fund for Canyon Centre Park: $617,222
        This accounts for all accumulated Tax Increment Financing ("TIF") funds. A second Budget
        Adjustment will be required when additional funds are received in April 2026. The final
        distribution will be in 2026 or 2027.

        In response to a question from Council Member Birrell, City Manager, Jared Gerber, reported
        that approximately $7,000 had been spent this fiscal year to design the park.

    •   Sundown sidewalk repairs: $61 ,721
        Mr. Jurges noted that this was the only new, unplanned expense included in the Capital
        Projects Fund amendment.

Storm Water Fund
   • Re-budget of prior year unfinished projects: $573,017

CDRAFund
  • Transfers to General Fund: $349,682
  • Transfers to Capital Projects Fund: $1 ,242,638



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for September 16, 2025    Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                       2
Mayor Weichers reported that Ordinance 448 Adopting an Amended Budget for 1 July 2025 through
30 June 2026, would be considered under Item 7.1.

Item 6 was Cottonwood Heights Police Department personnel updates. Police Chief, Robby Russo,
reported that Chief Brenneman's retirement caused a ripple effect, and several officers had been
promoted. Chris McHugh would be the new Assistant Police Chief. Scott Ricks was promoted to
Captain, Ken Eatchel to Lieutenant, and Kyler Burrows to Sergeant. All officers and their families
would be sworn in during the Business Meeting.

Item 7 .2 was Consideration of Resolution 2025-67 Approving the Appointment of a Treasurer and
Financial Reporting Manager. Mayor Weichers stated that the City was lucky Reid Sanderson was
able to spend three months training with David Muir.

3.0     REPORTS

        3.1     Introduction of New Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District General
                Manager - Pam Roberts.

Pam Roberts reported that she will be retiring on September 30, 2025, but Cottonwood Heights and
the district will be in good hands with the new Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District General
Manager, Evan Tyrrell. Mr. Tyrrell was raised in Fort Wayne, Indiana, and graduated from Indiana
University with graduate degrees in Public Affairs and Environmental Science. He previously served
as the Solid Waste and Fleet Services Director for Flagstaff, Arizona, and prior to that, he was the
Executive Director for the Moab Solid Waste Special Services District. He was thankful for the
opportunity to work with Ms. Roberts prior to her retirement and excited to work with the City.

Mayor Weichers welcomed Mr. Tyrrell and asked ifhe and Ms. Roberts had discussed top priorities.
Mr. Tyrrell stated that he believes there are opportunities related to the seasonal container reservation
program f9_r bulk waste and recycling. He would be seeking out cost-saving opportunities and ways
to improve operational efficiency to ensure the current rates can be sustained for as long as possible.

In response to a question from Council Member Birrell, Mr. Tyrrell confirmed that Cottonwood
Heights' waste is disposed of at the Salt Lake County Landfill. Council Member Birrell asked when
the landfill will reach capacity and how that will impact the City. Mr. Tyrrell stated that he was
learning about the facilities but did not have specific information at that time. Ms. Roberts indicated
that the last projection was that it not reach capacity for more than 60 years, but they could get more
information when they meet with Patrick Craig of Salt Lake Valley Solid Waste Management.
Regarding long-range planning, the Trans-Jordan Landfill will close in eight years. They opened a
transfer station at the intersection of 8805 South 700 West in Sandy City in preparation for closing.
The station accepts residential loads from all Salt Lake Valley residents Monday through Saturday,
as well as household hazardous waste.

In response to a question raised by Mayor Weichers, Ms. Roberts confirmed that vouchers are
available for this facility.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for September 16, 2025      Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       3
Council Member Newell asked for the top two issues with the container program. Mr. Tyrrell stated
that one challenge is the ability to recruit and retain drivers with a commercial driver's license
("CDL"). Despite that challenge, they were able to deliver and remove 60 containers per day this
year. Council Member Newell asked if they had considered partnering with the Salt Lake Community
College or other schools that train CDL drivers. Ms. Roberts stated that they have their own
apprentice program. They have not had much success recruiting from the schools.

Ms. Roberts reported that they are considering shifting resources from the trailer rental program.
Currently, two full-time equivalent ("FTE") employees run the service. The Board has instructed
them to shift resources to the seasonal container program. In 2025, they provided an average of 60
containers per day. The goal for 2026 is to provide a minimum of 66 containers. They also hope to
recruit more seasonal drivers. Council Member Newell stated that Recycling and Collections
Manager, Sione Tuione, is always very helpful.

Ms. Roberts thanked Council Member Holton for his support on the Wasatch Front Waste and
Recycling District Board, as he always comes prepared and asks great questions.

Mayor Weichers thanked Ms. Roberts for her years of service.

4.0     STAFF REPORTS

        4.1     Cottonwood Canyon Cove Park Naming Discussion, City Manager Jared Gerber.

Mayor Weichers reported that the City Council narrowed down the list of suggested names, and
residents were then asked to choose their favorite. City Manager, Jared Gerber, reported that the poll
was announced via social media and the City newsletter, and voting closed on September 15, 2025,
at 5:00 p.m. Over 200 votes were received, but many duplicate votes were received from the same
IP address. Summer Hill Park received 102 total votes, or 65 votes when duplicates were removed.
Brighton Park was second with 76 total votes, or 68 excluding duplicates. Dover Hill Park was third,
and write-in names received 24 total votes.

The City Council discussed the votes. Council Member Newell stated that the winning name should
be honored. Council Member Birrell and Council Member Hyland expressed surprise that Dover Hill
Park came in third but agreed with Council Member Newell. The park will be named Summer Hill
Park.

Mayor Weichers stated that Architectural Review Commissioner Scott Peters has worked closely with
Ivory Homes on the park. In response to his question, Mr. Gerber indicated that an opening date was
not yet available, but work should be completed by September 30, 2025.

Council Member Hyland noted that there is a one-year warranty on all landscaping. Council Member
Birrell indicated that she would like to schedule a walk-through with Mr. Gerber or Public Works
Director, Matt Shipp. Mr. Gerber stated that they can reevaluate the landscaping after the one-year
warranty period expires. There was a desire to add trees in the open, grassy area, but irrigation is not
available in that location, so instead, five trees were added to cover the path in other areas.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for September 16, 2025     Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       4
        4.2     General Plan Update, Community and Economic Development Director, Jim
                Spung.

Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung, introduced Sam Taylor from
Landmark Design.

Mr. Taylor reported that the draft General Plan was presented to the Planning Commission at its
September 2, 2025, meeting. They anticipated making the draft plan available to the public via an
online platform in early October. Mr. Spung stated that it will be announced via an article in the
newsletter. The suggested schedule would allow for adoption before the end of the year. However,
it could be adjusted at the Council' s discretion.

Council Member Birrell stated that the City Council had not convened to discuss the General Plan in
over three years, and Council Members Hyland and Holton had not had the opportunity to discuss it
at all. Mayor Weichers indicated that the General Plan would be a discussion item at the next three
Work Sessions, so he believed there would be ample time. However, if they needed more time, public
comment could be delayed.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Hyland, Mr. Taylor confirmed that the General
Plan would be updated to incorporate the Council's comments over the next few weeks. If the Council
felt it was not ready, public release could be delayed. In response to her follow-up question, Mr.
Spung clarified that the item would also be on the next three Planning Commission meeting agendas,
and a joint session between the City Council and Planning Commission was scheduled for October
21, 2025. Their intent was not to rush the process, but rather to create a schedule they could work
toward. Council Memoer Hyland stated that she watched the Planning Commission meeting, and one
Commissioner made the comment that the General Plan must agree with all the other master plans.
She needed time to review both the updated General Plan and the other plans, and she appreciated
flexibility in the schedule.

Mr. Gerber stated that Staff was given the goal of adopting the update by the end of the year. It could
be delayed-if necessary, but it had been in process for five years and he did not want it to take another
four or five years. Council Member Hyland noted that the General Plan is high-level and aspirational,
so it is not as detailed as many of the master plans.

Mr. Taylor continued reviewing the anticipated schedule. Barring delays, the public Planning
Commission hearing would be held on November 5, 2025, and the City Council would review and
potentially adopt the update on November 18, 2025.

Council Member Hyland asked how input would be received. Mr. Taylor reported that the Planning
Commission requested a PDF copy of the General Plan update that would allow everyone to
comment. Mr. Spung added that a link to the document was forwarded to the City Council, Planning
Commission, and Parks, Trails, and Open Space Committee. Anyone with the link can comment and
view others' comments.

Council Member Birrell stated that she would feel different if she had received the draft six months
previously, but she had only had it for one week. Her understanding was that the City Council that

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for September 16, 2025      Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                       5
commissioned the update, felt that the Cottonwood Heights Tomorrow survey, upon which the update
was based, was not scientifically derived. She wanted to ensure that the updated General Plan
reflected the current Council's primities, and the zoning and land use suggestions aligned with its
vision for the City.

Mr. Taylor continued his presentation. The current General Plan was adopted when Cottonwood
Heights was incorporated in 2005, and minor updates were made over time. Most of the items
identified in the plan had been achieved. The update process began in 2020, and a draft plan was
presented at a public open house in 2022. Based on comments received, Staff decided to conduct
additional in-house review and prioritize form-based code. Efforts to complete the General Plan
update were revived in 2024. The current draft was a result of those efforts and addresses current
opportunities and challenges regarding quality of life, growth and development, housing, traffic, etc.

A General Plan is intended as an advisory guide to land use decisions. It does not create regulations
or requirements, but it may recommend them as implementation strategies. Under State law, public
infrastructure must conform with the General Plan in order to be authorized and constructed.

Mayor Weichers clarified that just because something is in the General Plan does not mean the City
Council must follow it. City Attorney, Shane Topham, stated that the General Plan is a forward-
looking document that does its best to determine the City's needs during the life of the plan, but
everything identified in the plan is not required to be adopted. Mr. Taylor added that the General
Plan is a guide. A new road project, for example, would need to be identified in the General Plan.
However, it is an advisory guide on land-use issues, and the City Council is not required to follow it.

Mr. Spung indicated that the General Plan is especially important for Planning Department Staff
because they use it as a guide to filter requests and applications that must come before the City
Council. If someone were to approach Staff with a potential development, Staff would review the
General Plan to ensure that it conforms with the City's vision for the area. If it deviates greatly, Staff
would inform the developer that it is not in line with the City' s vision. If the developer then makes a
strong argument for the project, Staff could bring the matter before the Planning Commission and
City Council for potential amendment of the General Plan.

Mr. Taylor reported that Utah State Code requires chapters on land use, housing, transportation, and
water use and preservation. Each chapter defines current conditions, describes desired future
conditions, and outlines the path to achieve them. The Cottonwood Heights General Plan contains a
total of eight chapters:

    1.      Overview and Introduction
    2.      Land Use
    3.      Moderate-Incoming Housing Plan
    4.      Transportation
    5.      Economic Development
    6.      Recreation
    7.      Water Use and Preservation
    8.      Sustainability


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for September 16, 2025      Approved: _ __    _ __

                                                       6
Mr. Taylor then provided an overview of each chapter.

Chapter 1: Overview and Introduction
   • History and evolution of the City
   • Purpose of the General Plan
   • Demographic snapshot of the City
   • Community engagement process
   • Community vision and future goals based on public input

Chapter 2: Land Use
  • Designates future land use vision and map for housing, jobs, recreation, public facilities, and
      open space.
  • Outlines population density and building intensity standards by land use category.
  • Reflects community priorities and smart growth principles from plans and public input.
  • Provides tools to realize goals, including activity centers, housing options, neighborhood
      improvements, and transportation enhancements.
  • The future Land Use Map included in this chapter specifies five areas of focus:
          1. Town Center
          2. The Union Park and Gravel Pit areas, which have established master plans
          3. Neighborhood planning districts and area master plans
          4. Small-scale neighborhood centers
          5. Key transportation corridors

Chapter 3: Moderate-Incoming Housing Plan
   • This chapter was adopted by the City in early 2025.
   • Addresses future housing needs and requirements.
   • Includes five strategies to meet State-mandated affordability targets.

Chapter 4: Transportation
  • Identifies existing and proposed transportation systems.
  • Plans for how to support connections between housing, jobs, education, recreation, and
      commerce while mitigating regional traffic.
  • Correlates with the City's population, employment, and land use vision in Chapter 2.
  • A Network Concept Map is included in this chapter.

Mr. Taylor reported that changes had been made since the previous draft in response to citizens'
comments, indicating that the plan was too focused on active transportation and did not adequately
address future vehicular transportation needs. The current draft took a more balanced approach.

Chapter 5: Economic Development
  • Provides an economic snapshot of the City.
  • Highlights opportunities to strengthen financial diversity and resiliency.
  • Aligns with the land use, transportation, and recreation chapters.



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for September 16, 2025   Approved: _ _ __ __

                                                       7
Chapter 6: Water Use and Preservation
  • Explores the effect of permitted development and development patterns on water demand and
      infrastructure.
  • Explores methods to reduce water demand for existing and future development.
  • Recommends modifications that can be made to reduce or eliminate wasteful water practices.
  • Cottonwood Heights is unique in that it is not a water provider and is served primarily by Salt
      Lake City Public Utilities, and as such the chapter defers to their assumptions in many areas.

In response to a question from Council Member Birrell, Mr. Taylor confirmed that approximately
99% of City residents are served by Salt Lake City Public Utilities. Specific data for Cottonwood
Heights was not available, but they indicated that they have an adequate water supply to support
future demand in the service area. City-specific items covered in Chapter 6 include landscaping
ordinances and educational outreach.

Council Member Hyland reported that the newly annexed areas are in the Jordan Valley Water
District.

Chapter 7: Recreation
  • Examines the City's parks, recreation, and trail networks.
  • Highlights recreational assets that support livability, including canyons, corridors, the
      Recreation Center, parks, open spaces, and the trail system.
  • Aligns with the Land Use and transportation chapters.
  • Reflects planning ideas from the 2021 Parks and Recreation Master Plan.
  • Maps included in this chapter include a high-level overview of the existing system as well as
      where future facilities could be proposed.

Chapter 8: Sustainability
  • Describes the City's commitment to a sustainable and resilient community.
  • Summarizes and supports the 2019 Interlocal Sustainability Action Plan and was adopted as
      part of the Cottonwood Heights Sustainability Master Plan in 2021.

Mr. Spung reminded those present that the General Plan was currently a draft. The purpose of the
presentation was to introduce the City Council to the document and begin collecting their feedback.

In response to a question raised by Mayor Weichers, Mr. Taylor confirmed that changes were made
based on public feedback on transp01tation, housing, and population growth. Changes to the land use
chapter moved the focus to development areas like the Gravel Pit and other locations with established
master plans. Growth forecasts included in the General Plan were taken from the Wasatch Front
Regional Council ("WFRC").

Council Member Hyland stated that she had read approximately half of the document, but it had some
boilerplate language that she may challenge. She understood that it was an aspirational document
and appreciated that it looks specifically at Cottonwood Heights and what fits with the City but
believed that it should acknowledge the visitor economy. Since the process began in 2020, the Ikon
Pass has significantly increased the number of people visiting the City. She also believes it should


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for September 16, 2025   Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                       8
discuss the mountain suburban lifestyle, a term that was used in the General Plan but is absent from
the update.

The updated document includes form-based code, which had not been adopted and did not have a
consensus on the Council. Council Member Hyland asked if the language could be changed to discuss
amending zoning ordinances to meet goals rather than specifying form-based code. Mr. Taylor stated
that he sees form-based code as the vehicle to achieve the City's goals, but the language could be
modified at the Council's direction. Council Member Hyland stated that the Council had discussed
whether there are other tools that can help the City attain those objectives.

Boilerplate language that Council Member Hyland believed should be removed included references
to carpool lanes, as she did not believe there was room for a carpool lane anywhere in the City. The
document also needed to be edited.

Mayor Weichers noted that the State requires four chapters: Land Use, Moderate-Income Housing
Plan, Transportation, and Water Use and Preservation. He asked for the Council's feedback on the
Economic Development, Recreation, and Sustainability chapters.

Council Member Newell reported that economic development is a large piece of the City's future
vision, but sustainability was also very important as the Council needs to determine how to sustain
the community they want to form. Doing the right things at the right time will be critical. He was
pleased at the flexibility built into the plan, as it gives the City Council the ability to react to changes
and implement code updates as the need arises.

In response to a question from Mayor Weichers, Mr. Taylor indicated that most cities include the
same chapters in their general plans, although some choose not to have a sustainability chapter. The
recreation chapter typically looks at parks, trails, and open space, but each community approaches it
differently. In some cities, the chapter serves as their parks and recreation master plan. Other cities
have a tn.Qre detailed master plan. Cottonwood Heights Staff expressed concern that including too
many specifics from the various adopted master plans could lead to the General Plan becoming out
of date or misaligned when one of those documents is updated, and that was addressed by referring
to those plans rather than incorporating them.

Mayor Weichers noted that the City does not have an economic development master plan. Mr. Taylor
stated that an economic development strategy had been adopted within the last five years. The
General Plan includes a page listing the various plans and master plans that had been adopted since
2005, and he believed approximately 15 items were referenced. Council Member Birrell stated that
economic development was addressed as a chapter in the initial General Plan, but to her knowledge,
there was no adopted master plan for economic development.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Hyland, Mr. Taylor confinned that Landmark
Design read all current master plans and used them to infonn the General Plan. They did not use
artificial intelligence in the process.

Mr. Spung referred to the list of related planning efforts included in the General Plan and reported
that the Cottonwood Heights Economic Resiliency Plan was adopted in 2022. He noted that several

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for September 16, 2025        Approved: _ _ __ _ _

                                                       9
planning efforts were concunent with the kickoff of the General Plan update, which made capturing
all relevant information challenging. All plans were analyzed to ensure that the General Plan is
aligned with the ideas and planning direction contained within them.

Council Member Hyland indicated that the Resolution Adopting Principles and Policies for the
Establishment of the Future Boundary Between Cottonwood Heights and Sandy was adopted in 2014,
not 2024 as listed in the document. She also noted that the City is larger than 6.23 square miles.

Mayor Weichers asked about the process other cities went through for their general plan updates and
if the City Council should also review the individual master plans. Council Member Hyland stated
that they should at least read the goals of each plan. Mr. Taylor indicated that the General Plan works
at a very high level, and the Council should first consider whether it reflects what they and their
constituents want for the community.

Mayor Weichers suggested that two or three items be chosen for discussion at the next meeting.
Mr. Taylor agreed with that approach. The cunent focus of the land use chapter, for example, is the
Town Center and other activity centers. If the City Council agreed that it encapsulates their vision
for the community's future growth, they could then consider whether the goals of the supporting
master plans are represented in the General Plan. Mayor Weichers stated that he envisioned the
process would include a review of the current land use designations in the General Plan, then a
discussion on whether they are still valid or if changes are necessary.

Council Member Binell agreed with Mayor Weichers and noted that the Council had never discussed
the core areas of the City. For example, the Gravel Pit has approximately 150 acres of undeveloped
land that is slated for high-density housing in the current General Plan. However, the current
administration had never discussed whether that was still the vision for that property. She advocated
for form-based code because she wants residents to be part of the process and decide whether they
want the Ci!y to include a main street area, for example, and promote walkability. She also requested
information from the surveys, indicating that residents do not want active transportation because
transportation alternatives have been consistently requested in surveys. She believed the City Council
needed tocliscuss its focus and land use priorities.

Mayor Weichers suggested that the first discussion be on land use. The Council could review the
cunent designations prior to the meeting and then discuss its future vision and designate key areas
like the Gravel Pit, Fort Union Boulevard, Union Park Center, etc.

Council Member Hyland noted that form-based code had been tabled because they wanted to start
small. The Council could perhaps agree that fonn-based code was appropriate for the Town Center
area but not the entire City. She did not believe they needed to discuss moderate-income housing as
it relates to the General Plan but warned the Council that the state legislature would likely revise its
requirements in the upcoming session. She believed the primary focus should be on land use,
transportation, and economic development. The City has no control over water use and conservation.
She had not read the chapters on recreation and sustainability.

Mayor Weichers asked if the Council was going into too much detail. Mr. Taylor stated that there is
no wrong path. Mr. Gerber recommended that the discussion stay at a high level because it is a high-

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for September 16, 2025     Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      10
level plan. The Council should not get into the details of planning for individual areas, but they
should consider if the land uses, transpo1iation plan, etc., envisioned in the plan are the right fit for
the City.

Mr. Spung referred to the land use map included in the plan and noted that it is very general. For
example, the Gravel Pit area is designated as the Regional Center. It is typical for a general plan to
provide a narrative explaining each designation but not include specific concept or development
plans. A Regional Center is defined as an area of intense development where residents of the region
would go for certain activities. After the General Plan is updated, the Planning Department will be
tasked with implementing it. They can then discuss whether form-based code is the best tool to bring
that vision to life.

In response to a question from Mayor Weichers, Mr. Taylor reported that information from the area-
specific master plans, as well as the existing land use map, informed the land use chapter.

Council Member Hyland noted that in 2005, it was envisioned that City Hall would be located on
Fort Union Boulevard, but it was built on Bengal Boulevard. She appreciated that the new plan
suggests a Bengal Boulevard master plan as an aspirational goal. She would review the full General
Plan and comment on the shared document prior to the next City Council meeting.

Mayor Weichers asked Staff to plan a land use discussion for the next meeting. Council Member
Hyland stated that they could discuss economic development concurrently, as those topics overlap.
Mr. Spung stated that the housing strategy is also built upon the City's land use vision. Council
Member Hyland reports!d that land in Cottonwood Heights is now $1 million per acre, and she did
not know how the City could ensure affordable housing as specified in the General Plan. She believed
that was an aspirational goal, but the City does not have the budget to subsidize affordable housing.
Mayor Weichers noted that the Moderate-Income Housing Plan identifies five areas where the City
can try to encourage affordable housing. It was agreed that "ensure" was not the correct word to use.
Mr. Spung stated that the State's intention was to hopefully increase housing affordability and
availability but agreed that it is a hard goal to achieve.

In response to a question from Council Member Hyland, Mr. Shipp reported that the Transportation
Master Plan includes a streetscape _plan for roads, lane widths, medians, park strips, etc. Mr. Taylor
indicated that the transportation consultant suggested more details on streetscape development.
Council Member Birrell stated that the City ordinance requires treed park strips. Mr. Shipp clarified
that the Transportation Master Plan lays out the rights-of-way and provides a general idea of side
scaping based on the use of the road but does not specify things like trees or furnishings, which he
believed was what the draft General Plan suggested. Mr. Spung stated that the language referred
more to community branding. The City has some park strips that are xeriscaped and others that have
grass, and it suggested a more cohesive vision for what the streets in Cottonwood Heights look like.

Mayor Weichers asked if details on streetscapes should be part of the Council's focus or if that
discussion should occur after the General Plan update is approved. Mr. Spung stated that the
document identifies the goal of having uniform streetscapes but does not define it. Mr. Taylor added
that streetscape standards could help achieve other goals outlined in the transportation chapter. Mr.
Shipp agreed and noted that standards for things like the City entrances and medians would be helpful.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for September 16, 2025      Approved: _ _ __ __

                                                      11
Council Member Birrell stated that the General Plan should acknowledge what has occurred over the
past 20 years, including the fact that Cottonwood Heights is now a Tree City. She also believed that
maintenance of what is existing should be a sustainability priority, and the draft plan was very
acquisition-oriented.

Council Member Hyland suggested that the discussion should begin with community goals as the
Council needed to first agree on the big-picture goals before discussing specific chapters. Mr. Taylor
asked for comments in advance of the meeting so his team could better understand the discussion
points.

Council Member Birrell agreed that the process should begin with discussion of and agreement on
what residents want and need in the City. She believes a challenge of a gentrified city like
Cottonwood Heights is that some residents are on a very tight, fixed income and have trouble staying
in their homes or paying their water bill, while others who live in multimillion-dollar homes expect a
lot of amenities. Her constituents want to be able to flow from their suburban home to a more
walkable area, and she was there to represent them.

Mr. Spung asked for the Council's input on announcing the draft General Plan to the public. He noted
that if it was not announced in October, it would be delayed to November, and he wanted to ensure
that the public had enough time to feel included in the process. Mayor Weichers indicated that the
plan needed to be further developed prior to presenting it for public comment. Council Member
Birrell suggested that the October newsletter include an article detailing the process. Council Member
Hyland added that the article should also acknowledge the fact that the City's vision was transformed
by the pandemic because residents live differently than they did when the General Plan was first
created in 2005. Mr. Sp:ung stated that the project would be highlighted in the October newsletter,
but the draft would not be posted until the Council had time to discuss and revise it.

        4.3     Emergency Management Report - Sergeant Bess.

Police Sergeant, Lance Bess, reported that the Emergency Management Program was previously led
by Assistant Police Chief, Paul Brenneman. Sergeant Bess holds a degree in emergency services
administration with an emphasis in emergency management and disaster assistance. He thanked the
City Council for the opportunity to administer the program and Chief Brenneman for his mentorship
and guidance.

Responsibilities of the Emergency Manager include:
   • Develop and maintain emergency operations plans
   • Organize training
   • Manage the emergency operations center
   • Coordinate communication between departments
   • Support incident commanders
   • Lead post-disaster recovery efforts
   • Identify risks and vulnerabilities
   • Maintain mutual aid agreements or memorandums of understanding ("MOU")


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for September 16, 2025    Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      12
   •    Ensure compliance with federal and state emergency management regulations

The City participated in the following over the last year:

Monthly meetings
  • Salt Lake County Emergency Management meetings with the Red Cross, churches, hospitals,
      other municipalities, etc.
          o Eastside Emergency Managers meetings with nearby cities
          o Meetings with Council Member Hyland
          o Steering Committee meetings
          o Local Emergency Planning Committee meetings
  •   Drills and exercises
          o Monthly citywide radio checks
          o Cottonwood Heights April Shakeout, as well as mini-shakeouts per precinct
          o Localized drills

Sergeant Bess reported that each precinct has block captains who collect real-time status data on City
residents. When a natural disaster occurs, this data will help the emergency response team better
focus its recovery efforts. The data is reported via ham radio and is not reliant on cellular service.

Council Member Hyland pointed out that a younger group of volunteers is replacing the ham radio
operators, and that gap must be addressed. Council Member Holton asked if the City would provide
assistance to residents interested in becoming licensed operators. Council Member Birrell stated that
ham radios are utilized for sailing and navigation, but it has been on their way out for decades. She
did not think it was realistic to believe that younger generations would have an interest in it.

Mayor Weichers indicated that communications may go down during an emergency, and ham radios
allow people to continue communicating with each other. He understood that teenagers might not be
interested, but younger adults may be interested. It was noted that satellite phones and other
technology now exist. Sergeant Bess indicated that Salt Lake County Emergency Management has
recently brought ham radio back and they do conduct drills. However, he agreed that it is geared
toward older generations and the City should plan for the future.

Sergeant Bess continued the presentation.

    •   Planning
           o Salt Lake County Hazard Mitigation Plan
           o Cottonwood Heights Evacuation Maps
           o Butlerville Days
    •   Training
           o Block captain training to local precincts
           o Mayor and City Council FEMA training
           o City Personnel ICS 100 and 700
           o Utah Emergency Management Conference
           o Biannual training for Cottonwood Heights residents


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for September 16, 2025    Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      13
Sergeant Bess discussed the City's emergency response partnerships and indicated the need to obtain
a Memorandum of Understanding ("MOU") with Canyons School District. Council Member Newell
asked for information on the barriers to the agreement. Sergeant Bess stated that he did not know and
did not yet have a district contact. Council Member Newell stated that he would facilitate that
discussion.

Partners include:

   •    The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints;
   •    Saint Thomas More Catholic Church;
   •    Canyons Baptist Church;
   •    South Valley Unitarian Universalist Society;
   •    American Red Cross;
   •    National Weather Service;
   •    Salt Lake County Emergency Management;
   •    Cottonwood Heights Recreation Centerl
   •    Utah Department of Transportation ("UDOT"); and
   •    Eastside cities include South Salt Lake City, Holladay, Millcreek, Murray, and Salt Lake City.
        Sergeant Bess noted that several cities have full-time emergency managers, and it would be
        beneficial to the City to continue hiring one in the future.

The Cottonwood Heights Amateur Radio Club ("CHA.RC") is an integral part of the City's emergency
management program. It is an aging group, and Sergeant Bess agreed with Council Member Hyland 's
point that more options are needed. The group conducts annual drills, including a flood watch drill
scheduled for September 18, 2025, at 5:00 p.m., as well as the citywide and mini shakeouts.

Sergeant Bess reported that the City contracts with the United Fire Authority ("UFA") to conduct
local training, and the eight-week training course would begin in January 2026. Community
Emergency Response Team ("CERT") training would be offered at the October 25, 2025, Fall
Preparedness Conference in South Salt Lake City. The City Council was encouraged to attend.

Morning workshops include:

    •   Ham Radio Essentials;
    •   Stop the Bleed;
    •   Moulage; and
    •   CERT Skills Station.

Sergeant Bess reported that the Salt Lake County Multi-Jurisdictional Hazard Mitigation Plan was
approved by participating cities but denied by the Utah Department of Emergency Management
pending corrections. Once final approval was obtained, it would be brought before the City Council
for adoption. He would also be working with the Unified Fire Authority ("UFA" ) Chief, Riley
Pilgrim, regarding requirements of HB 48, Wildland Urban Interface Modifications, as well as
insurance plans and fireworks restriction areas.



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for September 16, 2025    Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      14
Mayor Weichers noted that HB 48 will likely result in additional taxes to residents. Chief Pilgrim
stated that there was no definitive information as the rule was still being finalized, but the majority of
homes that will be affected are east of Wasatch Boulevard. Proposed language would add a fee for
living in the Wildland Urban Interface Area based on an exposure score. The intent is to provide
guidance to insurance companies.

Council Member Birrell stated that those who live in the Wildland Urban Interface Area have faced
increased insurance costs over the past few years, and now the State wants to charge an additional
fee. Chief Pilgrim clarified that insurance companies are required to use the State's data, not
prop1ietary data that can be overly aggressive. People who live in interface areas are responsible for
ensuring that their homes are defendable and survivable in the event of a fire, and the State is trying
to take additional steps to aid them. The fee is intended to fund education, mitigation, and prevention,
with the intent of preventing insurance companies from enacting exorbitant rate increases or pulling
out of the state. Companies wishing to do either must receive approval from the Utah Insurance
Department.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Newell, Chief Pilgrim clarified that the State
will create a Wildland Urban Interface Map that scores areas from one to 10, with risk scores of five
and above being subject to a fee. The areas of Cottonwood Heights that will be subject to the fee are
east of Wasatch Boulevard. The fee had not yet been set, but it would be based on the structure's
square footage and risk score. Cities were tasked with identifying their own risk areas, and the
International Wildfire Interface Code would apply to those areas. Fireworks areas also needed to be
reconsidered.

Council Member Birrell referred to the steps Cottonwood Heights had taken to ban fireworks on its
eastern side and asked if the State would consider it if the City strengthened those restrictions in other
areas. Chief Pilgrim stated that fireworks restrictions were left up to individual municipalities and
are not taken into consideration by the State. He expressed concern that if the City further restricted
fireworks, the State could then decide that the fee should also apply to those areas and indicated that
the City's current map is very accurate.

Sergeant Bess continued the presentation and reported that weather is discussed in all monthly
meetings as it influences spring runoff and wildlife risks. Over the past 30 days, precipitation in the
City was slightly above nonnal, whereas the statewide average was below normal. The fire level
decreased to normal and was expected to decrease further in October. Temperatures over the next
three months were expected to be above average, with below-average precipitation. Over the next
six months, average temperatures and precipitation were expected.

Sergeant Bess reported that Salt Lake County Animal Services provides free microchipping for all
residents of Salt Lake County with licensed pets. It was noted that this could encourage residents to
license their pets and should be mentioned in the newsletter.

The Salt Lake County Health Department indicated that there were 19 total measles cases, 12 in
southwestern Utah and seven in Utah County. None had been reported in Salt Lake County.
Upcoming training includes:


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for September 16, 2025       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      15
      •   ICS 400 Training November 12 through November 14, 2025, at the Taylorsville State Office
          Building
      •   Utah PIO Association Conference, September 22 through September 24, 2025, in St. George
      •   Animal Sheltering and Planning November 13, 2025, at 7:00 p.m.
      •   Mill Hollow Precinct Training September 18, 2025, at 7:30 p.m.

Upcoming and events:
   • CHARC Localized Drill September 18, 2025, at 5:00 p.m.
   • Cottonwood Heights Mini-Shakeout November 8, 2025
   • Cottonwood Heights Shakeout April 18, 2026
   • Butler District Halloween Trunk or Treat, October 29, 2025, from 5:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m.

Sergeant Bess reported that as CHARC members age out, the City may want to consider the Starlink
satellite-based internet service as an alternative. He then demonstrated the installation of the dish and
the system's operation. In response to a question, he reported that the service works when it is raining
or cloudy as long as no trees, roof overhangs, etc., obstruct the sky. The subscription fee is minimal
and can be suspended at any time. The unit can be powered for 10 hours via battery backup or with
a generator and can also be connected to and powered from most of the City's new trucks.

Regarding vehicles, Sergeant Bess reported that the City's emergency response vehicle is beyond its
useful life, and the yearly repair cost is now in the thousands of dollars. The Police Department hoped
to obtain a newer trailer with a restroom facility and Starlink capabilities. Chief Russo stated that he
would be presenting a surplus request to sell the truck and use that money to purchase a trailer that
can be towed with an existing vehicle. He encouraged the Council to consider moving to Starlink
and indicated that the ability to communicate via Starlink has been invaluable to municipalities
dealing with disasters. Restroom capabilities and an area for meetings are also important.

5.0       REVIEW OF CALENDAR AND UPCOMING EVENTS.

          5.1    Friday, September 17, from 1:30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. -Senior Social (Bingo) at City
                 Hall.
          5.2    Friday, September 26, from 5:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. - Community Block Party at
                 Hillside Plaza.
          5.3    October 6 through November 12 - Historic Committee Lobby Display.
          5.4    Friday, October 10 - 6:30 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. at City Hall - Special Effects
                 Halloween Makeup Workshop.
          5.5    Wednesday, October 15, from 1:30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. at City Hall- Senior Social.
          5.6    Friday, October 24 - Monster Mash from 5:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. at CWH Rec
                 Center. - Monster Mash.
          5.7    November 17 through January 5- Winter Lobby Art Display.
          5.8    Monday, December 1 - 5:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. at City Hall- Light the Heights.
          5.9    Saturday, December 6 - 7:30 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. at Butler Middle School -
                 Christmas Concert with Eclipse 6.

The Guns and Hoses softball game between the Cottonwood Heights Police Department and United
Fire Authority would be held on Saturday, October 4, 2025, at Brighton High School.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for September 16, 2025      Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      16
Trunk or Treat was scheduled for October 31, 2025. A City vehicle would be provided for the
Council.

6.0     POSSIBLE CLOSED MEETING TO DISCUSS LITIGATION; REAL PROPERTY
        PURCHASE OR LEASE; THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
        COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH OF AN INDIVIDUAL;
        AND/OR ANOTHER PERMITTED PURPOSE UNDER UCA 52-2-205.

MOTION: Council Member Holton moved to ADJOURN the City Council Work Session and move
into Closed Session to discuss Acquisition or Release of Real Property Purchase. The motion was
seconded by Council Member Hyland. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the
Council.

The City Council was in Closed Session from 6:19 p.m. to 6:57 p.m.

7.0     ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION.

MOTION: Council Member Holton moved to ADJOURN the City Council Work Session. The
motion was seconded by Council Member Hyland. The motion passed with the unanimous consent
of the Council.

The Work Session adjourned at 6:57 PM.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for September 16, 2025   Approved: _ _ _ __

                                                      17
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
HELD TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2025, AT 7:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD,
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Members Present:        Mayor Mike Weichers, Council Member Ellen Bin-ell, Council Member
                        Suzanne Hyland, Council Member Shawn Newell

Staff Present:          City Manager, Jared Gerber; City Attorney, Shane Topham; Police Chief,
                        Robby Russo; Finance Director, Scott Jurges; Records, Culture, and Human
                        Resources Director, Barbara Higgins; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen;
                        Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; IT Manager,
                        Matt Ervin; Public Works Director and City Engineer, Matt Shipp; Unified
                        Fire Authority, Riley Pilgrim


1.0     WELCOME

Mayor Mike Weichers called the City Council Business Meeting to order at 7:02 PM.

2.0     PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE

Council Member Suzanne Hyland led the Pledge of Allegiance.

3.0     CITY COUNCIL COMMITTEE REPORTS

        3.1      Committee Reports by Council Member Matt Holton.

Council Member Holton reported that Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling will provide free leaf bags
at City Hall and the Cottonwood Heights Recreation Center from October 15 through November 30.
The drop-off location for full bags is Bywater Park.

Council Member Holton serves as the City Council Liaison for the Parks, Trails, and Open Space
Committee, which has a great vision. Some of the projects they identified have been delayed by
financial constraints, and he has pushed them to focus on achievable goals like a Master Plan for
Mountview Park. The splash pad is nearing the end of its life, and the wetland area near the tennis
courts needs attention. Off-leash dogs are a popular topic at the meetings. The Historic Committee
is currently working on a display and monuments.

        3.2      Committee Reports by Council Member Suzanne Hyland.

Council Member Hyland reported that she serves on the Health in the Heights Coalition, which has
been engaged in training on the Communities that Care framework. Funding was directed at youth
substance abuse prevention, but the chosen Health in the Heights vision statement focuses on the
health and well-being of all generations. The vision statement is, "Cottonwood Heights is a connected


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for September 16, 2025   Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      18
community of youth and adults empowering one another to grow as healthy, compassionate, and
engaged citizens."

The Thanksgiving SK is open for registration. She reminded the community that the event usually
sells out quickly.

She and Council Member Birrell have met with a small group of citizens who proposed that they
create newsletter content to spread the word about available resources for seniors. Senior centers in
Midvale and Mount Olympus are available to Cottonwood Heights citizens. She thanked Eva Chan
and Robin _____ for creating the volunteer group.

Council Member Hyland also serves on the Emergency Management Committee and thanked
Assistant Police Chief, Paul Brenneman, for his efforts on the committee. Sergeant Lance Bess will
be leading the effort to help the City be prepared for emergencies moving forward.

        3.3     Committee Reports by Council Member Shawn Newell.

Council Member Newell reported that he serves on the Canyons Education Foundation Board, which
raises funds to supplement teachers' classroom needs. The Mont L. Millerberg Classic Golf
Tournament will take place on September 18. The Fun Bus delivers checks to teachers, which
provides the board with the opportunity to meet teachers and let them know that the school district
and the City care about them and their classrooms.

He serves on the South Valley Chamber of Commerce Board. Their "Let's Do Lunch" program
brings in speakers on different topics to help business owners navigate changes and trends. They also
hold events to educate business owners on current legislative priorities.

Council Mt~mber Newell also serves on the Arts Council. The Golden Hills Park mural ribbon cutting
was held on September 12, and he encouraged residents to drive by the mural at sunset. It is a great
asset to the City. The project to wrap City electrical boxes was ongoing. September's Artist of the
Month is Niels Valentiner, and his art was on display at City Hall. A special effects makeup workshop
would be held on October 10 to teach residents how to create scars and wounds.

        3.4     Committee Reports by Council Member Ellen Birrell.

Council Member Birrell thanked the City's police officers for their service. She stated that violence
is never the answer and does not solve problems. It only deepens wounds, tears communities apart,
and leaves scars that last for generations. Real courage is found in dialogue, in listening, and in
building understanding, even when it is difficult.

        3.5     Committee Reports by Mayor Mike Weichers.

Mayor Weichers reported that the UFA is conducting a campaign on lithium-ion batteries, which are
one of the primary causes of fires. The campaign includes understanding battery hazards, how to spot
danger early, best practices, and responsible recycling. That infonnation is available on the City's
social media, as well as at http://unifiedfire.ut.gov .

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for September 16, 2025   Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      19
4.0    CITIZEN COMMENTS

Mayor Weichers opened the Citizen Comment period.

Michael Falk reported that he has lived in Cottonwood Heights since 1976. He was concerned about
noise and reckless driving related to Brighton High School on 7800 South, 2325 East, and in the
school's south parking lot. He believes that the Canyons School District should add gates at the
entrances from 7800 South and close them when appropriate. The parking lot could still be accessed
from the east. He also believes the intersection of Dolphin Way and 2325 East should be a three-way
stop, and speed bumps should be installed at 2325 East and Nantucket Drive.

Runar Bowman listened to the Work Session on the Master Plan. He believed that economic
development should be the City Council's biggest priority. At a previous meeting, there was a
presentation on the City's revenue and expenditure trends that showed expenses were up over time
and revenues were flat. That will lead to raising taxes, which will impact community members of
lesser means. Economic activity generates jobs and wealth.

There were no further comments. The Citizen Comment period was closed.

5.0    ACTION ITEMS

        5.1     Public Hearing to Receive Input on the Proposed Amended Budget for the 2025-
                2026 Fiscal Year - Introduction by Administrative and Fiscal Services Director
                Scott Ju,·ges.

Financial Services Director, Scott Jurges, reported that the Proposed Budget Amendment was
reviewed in detail during the Work Session. He then provided a brief overview of the changes.

General Fund
   • Granicus software purchase related to short-term rentals: $27,176;
   • Unexpected heating and cooling compressor and accumulator replacement: $32,519;
   • Information technology storage, retention, and recovery for video-based evidence: $85,000;
   • Utah Arts and Museums Grant (income and expense): $3,800;
   • Transfer from the CDRA Fund to cover capital projects in the Cottonwood Corporate and Fort
      Union RDAs: $349,682;
   • Police Fund reimbursements:
         o Utah Division of Public Safety related overtime: $10,610
          o EASY Alcohol Enforcement overtime: $679
          o Overtime related to sporting events: $3,655
          o Overtime related to the marathon: $7,310
          o Contribution from the Honorary Colonels for SWAT van upgrades and training:
             $9,000
          o Restitution for various incidents: $50
   • Net increase in expenditures: approximately $180,000;

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for September 16, 2025   Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      20
      •   Net increase in transfers or revenues: approximately $384,000; and
      •   Net reduced in Use of Fund Balance: $204,987.

Capital Projects Fund
   • Re-budget of prior year unfinished projects (expense): $22,475,284;
   • Re-budget of prior year unfinished projects (income): $12,679,334;
   • Transfer from CDRA Fund to Capital Projects Fund (expense and expense): $1,242,638;
   • Transfer from the CDRA Fund for Canyon Centre Park: $617,222;
   • Sundown sidewalk repairs: $61,721 ;
   • Total increase in expenditures: approximately $24 million; and
   • Total increase in revenues: approximately $13 million.

Storm Water Fund
   • Re-budget of prior year unfinished projects (expense): $573,017.

CDRAFund
  • Transfers to General Fund: $349,682; and
  • Transfers to Capital Projects Fund: $1,242,638.

Mayor Weichers opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing
was closed.

6.0       CHPD PERSONNEL UPDATES

          6.1    Announcement of Promotions.

Police Chief, Robby Russo, reported that Chief Brenneman's retirement created opportunities for
promotions. Chris McHugh was promoted to Assistant Police Chief, Scott Ricks was promoted to
Captain, Ken Eatchel was promoted to Lieutenant, and Kyler Burrows was promoted to Sergeant.
The officers and their families were present. Chief Russo thanked their families for their support and
encouragement. Chief Russo noted that succession is important for growth, positive change, and
strengthening the service the Police Department provides to the community.

City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen, swore the police officers in.

7.0       ACTION ITEMS

          7.1    Consideration of Ordinance 448 - Adopting an Amended Budget for 1 July 2025
                 through 30 June 2026. (The Utah State Treasurer suggests that Utah cities amend
                 their budgets at least quarterly to reflect any necessary changes since the budget was
                 adopted. This ordinance will approve an amendment to the city's current {2025-
                 2026/ budget.)

MOTION: Council Member Newell moved to APPROVE Ordinance 448 -Adopting an Amended
Budget for 1 July 2025 through 30 June 2026. The motion was seconded by Council Member Holton.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for September 16, 2025     Approved: _ __ __ _

                                                      21
Vote on Motion: Council Member Holton-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member
Newell-Yes; Council Member Birrell-Yes; Mayor Weichers-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

       7.2     Consideration of Resolution 2025-67 Approving the Appointment of Treasurer
               and Financial Reporting Manager. (This Resolution will Approve the Manager's
               Appointment of Reid Sanderson as the City's New Treasurer and Financial
               Reporting Manager, to replace recently retired David Muir.)

Mayor Weichers reported that the City Council was excited to appoint Reid Sanderson to the position
of Treasurer and Financial Reporting Manager. Mr. Sanderson indicated that his father was the
Finance Director for West Valley City, and he followed in his father's footsteps. He worked in Sandy
City for 18 years and in South Jordan for eight years. He began working with Cottonwood Heights
in May and plans to be with the City until retirement.

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to APPROVE Resolution 2025-67 - Approving the
Appointment of a Treasurer and Financial Reporting Manager. The motion was seconded by Council
Member Holton. Vote on Motion: Council Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member Newell-Yes;
Council Member Birrell-Yes; Council Member Holton-Yes; Mayor Weichers-Yes. The motion
passed unanimously.

8.0    CONSENT CALENDAR

       8.1      Approval of the Minutes for the City Council Work Session and Business
                Meetings of September 2, 2025.

MOTION: Council Member Newell moved to APPROVE the Consent Calendar. The motion was
seconded by Council Member Hyland. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the
Council.

9.0    ADJOURN

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to ADJOURN. The motion was seconded by Council
Member Holton. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.

The City Council Business Meeting adjourned at 7:37 PM.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for September 16, 2025   Approved: _ _ __ _ _

                                                      22
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the
Cottonwood Heights City Council Work Session and City Council Business Meetings held on
Tuesday, September 16, 2025.


Tev"L Forbe$
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: _ _ __ _ _ __ __




 Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for September 16, 2025   Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       23
      Cottonwood Heights
      Ciry bnuve11 t/,r m11y-0111




     Appendix 3

  STAFF REPORT

Butlerville Days Report

     Ann Eatchel
                                                                                      ure, and HR




Meeting Requested:              Business Meeting D       Work Session !XI   Other D

Public Hearing Needed?          Yes D No !XI Undetermined D
                                Denied D Approved IXI Con inued D
CM Approval or Denial
                                CM Signature: - -~       lj__

Ann Eatche l wi ll report on Butlerville Days 2025 and fina l expenses.
    Cottonwood Heights
    Ciry bem~m 1hr r,mJtJ'"




    Appendix 4

 STAFF REPORT
General Plan Update

     Jim Spung
                                                                                              Oia- 1,·
                                                                                                ~      ~o;~ood Heights
                                                                                                    C,ry l,,rmn-n ,Iv <Jnytm1




                             Business Meeting □
                             Yes D No ~ Undetermined D

 M Approval or Denial
                             CM Signature:


REQUEST
This is a city-initiated request that began in 2021 to update the city's General Plan . The General Plan is a
comprehensive, long-range policy document establishing the community's vision for land use, housing,
transportation, economic development, recreation, and sustainability for the next 10 to 20 years. The existing
General Plan was adopted shortly after the City's incorporation in 2005 and successfully focused on key
priorities and goals critical for a new municipality-many of which have been achieved. As the city continues
to grow, it now faces new opportunities and challenges brought on by shifting markets, new technology, and
increased development pressure.
To build on previous achievements and propel Cottonwood Heights forward, this updated plan, "Cottonwood
Heights Tomorrow - General Plan 2025," will provide innovative solutions and strategies that address the
City's evolving needs in the near- and long-term.

BACKGROUND

This project is a major undertaking requiring substantial community input and collaboration among a wide
range of Cottonwood Heights stakeholders. A series of online Public Engagement Meetings were held through
June 2021 to help determine key planning issues and identify the future vision and goals for the City. An online
platform provided various options for public comment and participation, including:

    o   A Visioning Survey to identify key issues and future visions;
    o   A Crowdsource Mapping Tool to locate specific needs, issues, and opportunities;
    o   A Community Idea Board to indicate likes and missing elements; and
    o   A Vision Confirmation Survey to verify goals and objectives.

Following public feedback at a Draft Open House in 2022, city staff revised and clarified the goals of the
General Plan and focused on the progress of the Town Center. Now as we resume progress on the General
Plan update, the city recognizes the importance of continued public engagement. Over the next few months,
city staff asks the City Council to review and provide input regarding the goals, objectives, strategies, and
vision derived from previous outreach efforts.

This Work Session discussion will focus on the first four chapters of the General Plan. Your input is crucial to
ensure the General Plan effectively guides the city's growth and development while aligning with Cottonwood
Heights' long-term vision. As you prepare for the meeting, we ask that you consider these questions, in
addition to others you may have, to help guide your thoughts.
   1.   Overview & Introduction. Summarizes the history and evolution of the city, explains the purpose of
        the General Plan, provides a demographic snapshot of the city, describes the community engagement
        process, and concludes with an overview of the community vision and future community goals
        reflected through public input.
        a. Does the draft plan effectively capture the stated vision, values, and big ideas developed earlier in
           the public outreach process?
        b. Does the plan establish a course for achieving the city's long-term goals for growth and
           development?
   2.   Land Use. Describes the future land use vision of the city, and an updated future land use map with
        descriptions of recommended land use categories. This chapter discusses general guidelines for future
        development and improvements.
        a. Is the proposed distribution and location of land uses representative of existing conditions and the
           city's desired future?
        b. Do the maps and supporting narrative clearly communicate proposed changes and future
           development patterns?
   3.   Moderate Income Housing Plan. Addresses future housing needs and requirements, including
        strategies for meeting State mandated affordability targets.
        a. This element was recently updated and adopted to align with the statutory requirements of Utah
           Code 10-9a-403.
        b. Generally, do the strategies align with the city's vision for supporting and promoting moderate-
           income housing?
   4.   Transportation. Outlines specific actions and goals for meeting current and future transportation
        demands. The chapter includes a concept for addressing local transportation needs and mitigating
        regional impacts that are aligned with the land use, housing, and economic goals of the city.
        a. Does the plan accurately capture the city's vision for the next 10-20 years regarding improvements
            and changes to the city's transportation infrastructure (i.e., roads, public transit, pedestrian, and
            bike networks)?
        b. Does the transportation plan effectively complement the proposed land use patterns to create a
           coordinated and functional system?



RECOMMENDATION

Discussion item only.



Attachments:

None.
   Cottonwood Heights
   C11y b(lu'<m 1hr mn,o,u




   Appendix 5

STAFF REPORT
Flash Vote Survey
  Jared Gerber
                                                                                       0 0 ;1,·,.
                                                                                        (@~o:~ood
                                                                                          c,,, ....,"'"" ,,,,
                                                                                                         "'~,u
                                                                                                              Heights




Meeting Requested :             Business Meeting D        Work Session IX]   Other D
Public Hearing Needed?          Yes □ No IX] Undetermined D
                                Denied D Approved IX] Con inued D
CM Approval or Denial
                                CM Signature: _ _ ~ z1j___

Jared Gerber will lead a Flash Vote Su rvey Discussion.
   ........,.---n....u , ~
                   '( I) • '\; I
         Cottonwood Heights
         C11J 1Hmw11 t ht ea11:,om




        Appendix 6

  STAFF REPORT
Fraud Risk Assessment
        Scott Jurges
Meeting Requested:             Business Meeting O      Work Session ~     Other □
Public Hearing Needed?         Yes D No [gj Undetermined 0
                               Denied □     Approved la'"" Continued □
CM Approval or Denial
                               CM Signature:


Summary:

We are required to complete a Fraud Risk Assessment outlined by the Utah State Auditor's office each fiscal year. This
assessment is required to be presented to the governing board of the political entity, in our case the City Council.

We work very hard to follow the various items and directives contained and discussed in the assessment. There are 395
points available, and we typically earn 375 points. This is because we do not have a formal internal audit function which
is worth an additional 20 points. The Definition of internal audit function per the Utah State Auditor is:

        An internal audit function is an organizational initiative to monitor and analyze the entity's own operations in
        order to determine how well it conforms to a set of specific criteria, such as laws, policies, or best practices.
        Internal auditors are independent of the work they audit, but are very familiar with it so as to allow them to
        determine compliance with the requirements for that work.

To implement this within the city, we would need to hire additional staff or contract with an audit professional to be able
to perform these duties. We feel that we can be proactive with our internal observation and review procedures to be
reasonably assured that we are following the laws and policies of the city.
     Fraud Risk: Assessment
Continued


                  ~   '·"-

                                                                                                                     Yes       Pts
       1. Does the entity have adequate basic separation of duties or mitigating controls as                                   200
          outlined in the attached Basic Separation of Duties Questionnaire?                                         7-bO
       2. Does the entity have governing body adopted written policies in the following areas :
                                                                                                                        _,.,
          a. Conflict of interest?                                                                                      '7      5
          b. Procurement?                                                                                                ,;     5
          C.   Ethical behavior?                                                                                        <;      5
          d. Reporting fraud and abuse?                                                                                 ',      5
          e. Travel?                                                                                                   ~        5
          f. Credit/Purchasing cards (where applicable)?                                                               )        5
          g. Personal use of entity assets?                                                                             t5      5
           h. IT and computer security?                                                                                <!       5
           i. Cash receipting and deposits?                                                                            '7       5
       3. Does the entity have a licensed or certified (CPA, CGFM, CMA, CIA, CFE, CGAP,                               'U,)     20
       CPFO) expert as part of its management team?
           a. Do any members of the management team have at least a bachelor's degree in                                       10
              accounting?                                                                                              JV

       4. Are employees and elected officials required to annually commit in writing to abide by a                   '7()      20
           statement of ethical behavior?
       5. Have all governing body members completed entity specific (District Board Member                                     20
          Training for local/special service districts & interlocal entities, Introductory Training for               '7,.v
          Municipal Officials for cities & towns, etc.) online training (training.auditor.utah.gov)
          within four years of term appointment/election date?
       6. Regardless of license or formal education, does at least one member of the                                           20
          management team receive at least 40 hours of formal trai ning related to accounting,                        'ZC)
          budgeting, or other financial areas each year?
       7. Does the entity have or promote a fraud hotline?                                                             'le)    20
       8. Does the entity have a formal internal audit function?                                                      u         20
       9. Does the entity have a formal audit committee?
                                                                                                                      w         20


     *Entity Name: _ _eo
                      _ -_f/o
                          _·_
                            · _•"l_ t,U,
                                      _v_()_d...
                                             __
                                                                1_-1_~_1_.'7'---t-,-·k_ _ _ _ __ _ _ __ _

                                                         'O / 30 /2.,12,7
     *Completed for Fiscal Year Ending: _ _ ______ *Completion Date: _ _ _ _ _ __ _.,,,
                                                                                                              9/ , q( -~ 1,.C"

                                               ,

     *CAO Signature:<:::::~
                          ____.:--_> <?         {               = *CFO Signature: -=
                                                                                   ~ '---''--"c...,.,------7''---"'---"-- -- -
                              /"
     •Required


Utah State Capitol Complex, East Office Building, Suite E310 • Salt Lake City, Utah 84 11 4-23 10 • Tel: (80 1) 538-1025 • auditor.utah.gov
       Basic Separation of Duties

See the following page for instrnctions and definitions.
                                                                                                 "'   -
                                                                                                              Yes      No          MC*         N/A
  1. Does the entity have a board chair, clerk, and treasurer who are three                                                  1'1
     separate people?                                                                                                                     ~'1'~,>\;
                                                                                                               X                         !1                  J
 2. Are all the people who are able to receive cash or check payments different                                                                   -.::,,

                                                                                                               X
                                                                                                                                              ,~~C;;,
    from all of the people who are able to make general ledger entries?                                                                   V
                                                                                                                                          ~
                                                                                                                                                     f,
 3. Are all the people who are able to collect cash or check payments different
    from all the people who are able to adjust customer accounts? If no customer
    accounts, check "N/A".
                                                                                                                                   )<..
                                                                                                                                                           -,,.
 4. Are all the people who have access to blank checks different from those who
                                                                                                                                                    ,',


                                                                                                                                              ' .   ,',;   ·.-
    are authorized signers?
                                                                                                              X                           r
                                                                                                                                                    ~E
 5. Does someone other than the clerk and treasurer reconcile all bank accounts
                                                                                                                                              ..,.....
                                                                                                                                                                 I
    OR are original bank statements reviewed by a person other than the clerk to                                                          I~
    detect unauthorized disbursements?                                                                         X                               \, ,.,
  6. Does someone other than the clerk review periodic reports of all general                                                             j.\::'-1/t~
     ledger accounts to identify unauthorized payments recorded in those
     accounts?                                                                                                X                           l''ic
                                                                                                                                          I, ~; ..·
                                                                                                                                          I ," '1 ''., ·::

  7. Are original crediUpurchase card statements received directly from the card
     company by someone other than the card holder? If no crediUpurchase cards,
     check "N/A".                                                                                              X
  8. Does someone other than the crediUpurchase card holder ensure that all card
     purchases are supported with receipts or other supporting documentation? If
     no crediUpurchase cards, check "N/A".                                                                     X
  9. Does someone who is not a subordinate of the crediUpurchase card holder
     review all card purchases for appropriateness (including the chief
     administrative officer and board members if they have a card)? If no                                      X
     crediUpurchase cards, check "N/A".

10. Does the person who authorizes payment for goods or services, who is not                                                                     "~ -                '


    the clerk, verify the receipt of goods or services?                                                        X                              ", • , r~
                                                                                                                                          i i~,,·~
 11 . Does someone authorize payroll payments who is separate from the person
      who prepares payroll payments? If no W-2 employees, check "N/A".                                          y:__
 12. Does someone review all payroll payments who is separate from the person
     who prepares payroll payments? If no W-2 employees, check "N/A ".
                                                                                                                y___

'MC = Mitigating Control




  Utah State Capitol Complex, East Office Building, Suite E3 IO • Salt Lake City, Utah 8411 4-2310 • Tel: (80 1) 538- 1025 • auditor.utah.gov
  Cottonwood Heights
  Cuy IHtuwn 1/,r r,111)Y111J




  Appendix 7

STAFF REPORT
 Action Items
 Shane Topham
Tiffan Janzen

From:                    Shane Topham <WST@tophamlegal.com>
Sent:                    Thu rsd ay, September 18, 2025 8:54 AM
To:                      Jared Gerber; Tiffany Janzen
Subject:                 [EXT:]Legislat io n for October 7th Meetings
Attachments:             WST-Cottonwood Heights CDRA-Resolution 2025-05 Approving Real Property Purchase Agreement, Etc. for Town
                         Center (Walgreens Parcel).pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-CORA-Walgreen's Parcel-Purchase Agreement with DPI
                         (FI NAL 9.16.25).docx; WST-Cottonwood Height s-CDRA- Walgreens Parcel Sit e Plan.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-
                         Resolut ion 2025-68 Declaring Certain Property Surplus (Comma nd Post Vehicle).pdf

Follow Up Flag:          Follow up
Flag Status:             Flagged



Greetings-

Drafts of the items of legislation scheduled for consideration at the October 7th CORA board and city
council business meetings are attached for your review and comment:

CDRA Meeting

    1. Resolution 2025-05. By this resolution, the CORA board will approve and ratify the "Real Property
       Purchase Agreement" and related documents regarding the CDRA's proposed purchase of fee
       simple title to approximately 1.1 acres known as the "Walgreens Parcel" located at the Southeast
       corner of the intersection of 2300 East and Fort Union Blvd. The purchased title will be subject to
       the ground lease and premises lease currently affecting the parcel. A copy of that purchase
       agreement (less its site plan exhibit, which is attached separately) also is attached .

City Council Meeting

    1. Resolution 2025-68. This resolution will approve surplusing of the current CH PD "command post"
       vehicle on the terms specified in the addendum attached to this resolution, as discussed in the
       September 16th council work session. The "blanks" on the addendum will be completed before
       the October 7th meeting based on information that will be provided in Scott Jurges' memo to th e
       council concerning such surplusing (which currently is in progress but will be contained in the
       packet for this meeting).

Please contact me as soon as possible if there are any questions or concerns regarding the attachments.

Best regards-

Shane

WM. SHANE TOPHAM I Attorney I TOPHAM LEGAL
4930 Fairview Drive, Holladay, UT 84117
tel+801.808.6325 I Bio

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: The content of this e-mail is confidential and proprietary and may be attorney-cli ent
privileged. If you are not the intended recipient, please destroy it and notify: wst@topham legal.com.
                            ottonwood Heights
                           City bnu-em the mnJOI/J




                CDRA BUSINESS MEETING


                         Attachment 1
                      Resolution 2025-05
By this resolution the board will approve and ratify the agency's
   entry into a purchase agreement and related documents in
 connection with the agency's proposed purchase of 1+ acre of
realty located at the Southeast corner of the intersection of 2300
East and Fort Union Blvd. within the city's Town Center at 2300
     East Fort Union community reinvestment project area.
                        COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
             COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND RENEWAL AGENCY

                                   RESOLUTION No. 2025-05

   A RESOLUTION APPROVING AND RATIFYING A REAL PROPERTY PURCHASE
 AGREEMENT AND RELATED DOCUMENTS FOR REALTY WITHIN THE TOWN CENTER
    AT 2300 EAST FORT UNION COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT PROJECT AREA


       WHEREAS, the Community Development and Renewal Agency (the "Agency") of the city
of Cottonwood Heights (the "City"') was created to transact the business and exercise all of the
powers provided for in the Limited Purpose Local Government Entities - Community Reinvestment
Agency Act (Title l 7C, Chapters 1 through 5, UTAH CODE ANNOTATED (1953 as amended) and any
subsequent, replacement or amended law or act (the "Act"); and

        WHEREAS, pursuant to section 17C-5-l 04 of the Act, the Agency heretofore has adopted a
project area plan (the "Project Area Plan") for the Town Center at 2300 East Fort Union community
reinvestment project area (the "Project Area") by its Resolution 2022-01; and

        WHEREAS, pursuant to its Ordinance 391 the City's city council (the "Council") adopted
the Project Area Plan as the official community development plan for the Project Area and
authorized the Agency to proceed to carry out the Official Plan, all as provided in section 17C-5-l 09
of the Act; and

        WHEREAS, in furtherance of such authorization, the Agency has negotiated with
Cottonwood HP, LLC ("Seller") concerning the Agency's proposed purchase of approximately 1.1
acres of improved real property (the "Property") that is located on the southeast corner of the
intersection of Fo1t Union Blvd. and 2300 East Street within the Project Area, all as more fully
described in the "Real Property Purchase Agreement" dated on or about 16 September 2025 between
the Agency and Seller (the "PSA") and any and all related documents involving the Agency as a
party which are mentioned in or otherwise contemplated by that agreement (collectively, the
"Documents"); and

       WHEREAS, funding of the purchase price for the Property under the PSA is available from
the proceeds of the City's Series 2025 General Obligation and Refunding Bonds for the specific
purpose of acquiring the Property; and

       WHEREAS, the Agency's governing board (the "Board") met on 7 October 2025 to
consider, among other things, approving the Agency's entry into the Documents; and

        WHEREAS, the cmTent forms of all the Documents prepared to date are attached as exhibits
hereto; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Board has deteITnined that it is in the best
interests of the Agency to approve and ratify, as appliable, the Agency' s ently into the Documents as
proposed;

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the governing board of the Cottonwood
Heights Community Development and Renewal Agency that the Documents be, and hereby are,
ratified and approved, as applicable, and that the Agency' s chairman, chief executive officer and
secretary are authorized to execute and deliver the Documents on behalf of the Agency on such
timetable as the Agency' s chairman and chief executive officer, in consultation with the Agency' s
legal counsel, deem appropriate; and

        BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED by the governing board of the Cottonwood Heights
Community Development and Renewal Agency that the Documents are so approved with such
additions, modifications, deletions or other changes as hereafter may be deemed necessary or
advisable by the Agency's chairman and chief executive officer in consultation with the Agency' s
legal counsel; and

        BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Agency's chai1man and chief executive officer, in
consultation with the Agency's legal counsel, are hereby authorized to approve, execute and deliver
(as approp1iate) any additional Documents necessary or advisable to advance or protect the Agency's
interests in connection with the subject transaction, including, without limitation, amendments to
and/or te1mination of the PSA; and

        BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED by the governing board of the Cottonwood Heights
Community Development and Renewal Agency that the Agency shall provide such notice(s), make
such filing(s) and perform such other acts as may be required by any applicable law in connection
with approval and adoption of the Documents.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2025-05, shall take immediate effect following the Agency' s
provision of any additional notice(s) or acts as may be required by the Act or other applicable law.

       PASSED AND APPROVED effective 7 October 2025.

                                              COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS COMMUNITY
ATTEST:                                       DEVELOPMENT AND RENEWAL AGENCY


By:_ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ __                    By _ __ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ __
   Tiffany Janzen, Secretaiy                     Michael T. Weichers, Chairman


                                              VOTING:

                                              Michael T. Weichers            Yea_Nay_
                                              Matt Holton                    Yea_Nay_
                                              Suzanne Hyland                 Yea_Nay_
                                              Shawn E. Newell                Yea_Nay_
                                              Ellen Birrell                  Yea _ Nay_

      DEPOSITED in the office of the Secretary of the Cottonwood Heights Community
Development and Renewal Agency this 7th day of October 2025.




                                                 2
                       Real Property Purchase Agreement
        THIS REAL PROPERTY PURCHASE AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") is entered
into effective 16 September 2025 (the "Effective Date") between the COTTONWOOD
HEIGHTS COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND RENEW AL AGENCY ("Buyer"), a
public agency of the city of Cottonwood Heights, Utah ("City"), whose address is 2277 East
Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121, and COTTONWOOD HP, LLC, a Delaware
limited liability company whose address is 445 South Douglas Street, #100, El Segundo, CA 90245
("Seller"). OLD REPUBLIC TITLE, a title insurance company autho1ized to act in the state of
Utah ("Escrow Agent''), whose address is 6965 South Union Park Center, Ste. 200, Cottonwood
Heights, UT 84047, also is a signatory to this Agreement for the limited purposes, and subject to
the other limitations, specified below.



       A.       Seller owns fee simple title to a parcel of real property that is located on the
southeast comer of the intersection of F01i Union Blvd. and 2300 East street in Cottonwood
Heights, Salt Lake County, Utah and is known as tax parcel number 2227201035. The legal
description of such real property is set forth on attached Exhibit "A" and a plat showing such realty
is shown on attached Exhibit "B."

         B.     Seller has leased such real property to Hillside-West, LLC (or an affiliate)
("Hillside") pursuant to a certain ground lease (the "Ground Lease"), who constructed certain
improvements thereon which are purportedly subleased to Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. (or an
affiliate) (" Walgreens") pursuant to a separate lease agreement between Hillside and Walgreens
(the "Premises Lease" ).

       C.     Seller desires to sell, and Buyer desires to purchase, fee simple title to such real
property and cetiain of its associated personal property on the terms and conditions specified in
this Agreement.

       D.      The parties intend to set forth herein all the terms and conditions relating to such
purchase and sale and to supersede hereby and consolidate herein all prior agreements and
negotiations, oral and/or written, for the purchase and sale of any or all of such property.

                                       AGREEMENT:

        NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, the mutual covenants and
undertakings of the parties hereto, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and
legal sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:

                                        ARTICLE 1
                                    PURCHASE AND SALE

        Section 1.1    Property. In this Agreement, the "Property" means and includes,
collectively:

              (a)   The "Real Property" described on attached Exhibit "A" and approximately
shown on attached Exhibit "B," consisting of approximately 1.09 acre of ground, Seller's interests
in any buildings and improvements located on such ground, and all rights and privileges
appurtenant to such real property, including without limitation Seller's right, title and interest
under the Ground Lease; and

                (b)    The "Personal Property" associated with the Real Property, which is any
tangible personal property owned by Seller at and in connection with the Real Property as well
any intangible personal property owned by Seller which is solely associated with the Real Property,
including all entitlements and rights solely relating to the Real Property; all plans, specifications,
maps, drawings and other rende1ings solely relating to the Real Property; all files, books, records,
intangible property, intangible rights, and similar 1ights solely benefiting the Real Property
( excluding the Excluded Materials [defined below]); all permits, licenses, certificates of occupancy
and governmental approvals, including any currently pending permit or license applications,
consents and authorizations held and used by Seller solely in connection with the Real Property;
all rights, claims or awards solely benefiting the Real Property, including, without limitation,
claims under property tax abatement and similar proceedings; all prepaid charges, deposits, sums
and fees relating to the Real Property; and all warranties, guarantees and agreements governing
any of the foregoing.

       Section 1.2 Purchase and Sale. At the Closing (hereinafter defined), Seller shall sell
and convey to Buyer, and Buyer shall purchase and take from Seller, the Property on the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth.

                                    ARTICLE2
                        PURCHASE PRICE AND PAYMENT TERMS

       Section 2.1  Purchase Price. The total purchase price for the Property is Three Million
Five Hundred Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($3,500,000.00) (the "Purchase Price").

        Section 2.2    Payment. The Purchase Price shall be paid by Buyer as follows:

                (a)     Earnest Money. Within five (5) Business Days (defined below) following
the Effective Date, Buyer shall deposit in an escrow (the "Escrow") established with Escrow Agent
the sum of Thirty-five Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($35,000.00) (together with any interest
earned thereon, the "Earnest Money"). Notwithstanding any provision set forth in this Agreement,
One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) of the Earnest Money shall be non-refundable in all events (other
than Seller's default) and shall be paid to Seller if this Agreement is terminated (other than due to
Seller's default) at any time prior to the Closing (the "Independent Consideration"). The
Independent Consideration shall be applicable to the Purchase Price at the Closing.

              (b)     Cash Payment at Closing. On or before the Closing, Buyer shall deposit in
Escrow the balance of the Purchase Price subject to, and as adjusted by, the prorations and
adjustments required by this Agreement.

               (c)     Manner of Payment; Earnest Money Provisions. All payments Buyer is
required to make under this Section 2.2 shall be made by cashier' s check payable to Escrow Agent
or by wire transfer of immediately available funds to Escrow Agent' s account. Escrow Agent is
instructed to deposit all such payments in a federally-insured money market or other similar
account, subject to immediate withdrawal, at a bank or savings and loan institution located in Salt
Lake County, Utah. If the Closing occurs, the Earnest Money shall be credited against the Purchase
                                                  2
Price for Buyer's benefit at the Closing. Upon the expiration of the Inspection Period, the Earnest
Money shall be non-refundable to Buyer except as otherwise expressly provided in this
Agreement.

                                            ARTICLE 3
                                             ESCROW

        Section 3.1     Establishment o(Escrow; Escrow Instructions. This Agreement constitutes
Escrow instructions to Escrow Agent. If Escrow Agent requires the execution of Escrow Agent' s
reasonable, customary escrow instructions ("Instructions"), Buyer and Seller agree to execute
them, provided that (a) such Instructions shall be construed as applying only to Escrow Agent's
engagement, and (b) if there are conflicts between the terms of this Agreement and the terms of
the Instructions, the tenns of this Agreement shall control.

       Section 3.2 Acceptance; Escrow Agent Not a Party. By accepting this Escrow, Escrow
Agent agrees to be bound by the tenns of this Agreement as it relates to Escrow Agent's duties.
Such agreement does not, however, make Escrow Agent a party to this Agreement, and no consent
or approval from Escrow Agent shall be required to amend, extend, supplement, terminate or
otherwise modify this Agreement except to the extent any such action increases the duties of
Escrow Agent or exposes Escrow Agent to increased liability, in which case such action shall not
be binding on Escrow Agent unless Escrow Agent has consented to the same in writing.

        Section 3.3     Cancellation Charges. If the Escrow fails to close because of Seller's
default, Seller shall be liable for all of Escrow Agent's customary reasonable escrow cancellation
charges. If the Escrow fails to close because of Buyer' s default, Buyer shall be liable for all of
Escrow Agent's customary reasonable escrow cancellation charges. If the Escrow fails to close for
any other reason, Seller and Buyer shall each be liable for one-half (1/2) of all of Escrow Agent's
customary escrow cancellation charges.

         Section 3.4 IRS Reporting. Escrow Agent shall (a) be the designated "reporting person"
under §6045(e) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") with respect
to the real estate transaction contemplated by this Agreement (the "Transaction"), and (b) prepare,
file and deliver such information, returns and statements as the U.S. Treasury Department may
require by regulations or forms in connection with such requirements, including Fonn 1099-S.

        Section 3.5   Closing Protection Letter. If Escrow Agent does not issue its own title
insurance policies but acts as an agent for the issuers of the title insurance policies ("Title
Company"), as a condition to Escrow Agent acting as such Escrow Agent shall cause Title
Company to issue to Buyer and Seller a closing protection letter or insured closing service letter
in written form reasonably satisfactory to Seller and Buyer within two (2) Business Days after the
Effective Date.

                                   ARTICLE4
                      INFORMATION TO BE PROVIDED TO BUYER

         Section 4.1    Due Diligence Materials. Within the time periods set forth below, Seller
shall provide Buyer or make available for Buyer's review via a website with the following (the
"Due Diligence Materials" ) but only to the extent in Seller's possession or actually known by
Seller to exist and able to be obtained by Seller pursuant to a legal right to do so without cost (other
                                                   3
than nominal costs):

                (a)    Title Commitment. Within ten (10) Business Days after the Effective Date,
a current ALTA extended coverage commitment for title insurance (the "Title Commitment'') on
the Real Property prepared by Title Company. The Title Commitment shall show the status of title
to the Real Property as of the date of the Title Commitment and shall be accompanied by legible
copies of all documents referred to in the Title Commitment.

              (b)     Existing Surveys. Within five (5) Business Days after the Effective Date, a
copy of the most recent ALTA survey and any other survey of the Real Property.

                 (c)    Lease Documents. Within five (5) Business Days after the Effective Date
Seller shall deliver full and complete copies of (i) the Ground Lease, all amendments thereto, all
agreements related thereto, and all other rental agreements and the like with respect to any
occupancy or use of any portion of the Real Property and within Seller's possession (collectively,
the "Lease Documents"); (ii) a written statement concerning the Ground Lease specifying the
cmTent rental thereunder, the date to which the rent has been paid, the amount of any security
deposit, the amount of any prepaid rent, and the nature of any unsatisfied concessions due from
Seller; and (iii) correspondence files related to the Ground Lease for the past three (3) years (to
the extent Seller has such files).

                (d)    Studies and Reports. Within five (5) Business Days after the Effective Date,
copies of all engineering plans and reports, site plans, property condition reports, traffic studies,
architectural plans, drawings, test and inspection reports, environmental assessments, surveys,
studies, and other similar materials relating to the Real Property.

                 (e)    Site Plans. Within five (5) Business Days after the Effective Date, copies of
all as-built plans, permits, certificates of occupancy, construction drawings and specifications for
the Real Property and any tenant improvements, including details of all utilities serving the Real
Property.

                (f)     Income and Expense Records. Within five (5) Business Days after the
Effective Date, copies of all income and expenses records relating to the Property for the past
twenty-four (24) months, together with copies of any other financial infonnation possessed by
Seller and relating to the use or operation of the Property, including property tax and assessment
records and notices for such period, and the 2025 operating budget for the Property; provided that
in no event shall the Due Diligence Materials include, or Buyer have any right to receive or review,
any Excluded Materials. "Excluded Materials" shall mean any appraisals, internal reports,
valuations, other offers or agreements relating to the acquisition or sale of the Property, economic
evaluations of the Property, documents pertaining to the internal operations of Seller's entity,
reports regarding the physical condition of the Property prepared by Seller or any affiliate of Seller
for the internal use or for the information of the investors in Seller, and any other internal
proprietary infonnation not relating to the physical or operational condition of the Property or not
otherwise specified in this Section 4.1.

               (g)    Estoppel. Seller shall use its commercially reasonable good faith efforts to
cause Hillside to execute and deliver to Buyer an estoppel certificate in the fonn attached hereto
as Exhibit "C" or such other form(s) as may be required by the Ground Lease. No later than five
(5) Business Days after the Effective Date, Seller shall deliver the form of the proposed estoppel
                                                4
certificate (if not based on Exhibit "C" hereto) to Buyer for review. If Buyer fails to provide written
notice of any proposed changes to the proposed estoppel certificate at least three (3) days before
the intended distribution date, the form and content of the proposed estoppel certificate shall be
deemed acceptable to Buyer. If the estoppel certificate in the approved fonn, or other reasonably
acceptable fonn (and not alleging any then ongoing material default on Seller's part and
confinning the material business tenns of the Ground Lease) from Hillside is not delivered to
Buyer at least three Business Days before Closing then Buyer shall, at its option and as its sole and
exclusive remedy, and notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, have the right
to either:

                       (i)    Terminate this Agreement upon w1itten notice thereof to Seller at
least one (1) day prior to the Closing Date, in which event Buyer shall receive a refund of the
Earnest Money and be relieved of any and all liability under this Agreement except such liability
under this Agreement expressly stated herein to survive such termination; or

                       (ii)    Buyer may elect to extend the Closing Date for an additional period
of time not to exceed thi1ty (30) days upon written notice to Seller at least two (2) days before the
original Closing Date to enable Seller to continue to pursue such requisite estoppel certificate. If,
despite its commercially reasonable efforts Seller is still not able to obtain the estoppel certificate
from Hillside within such additional thirty (30) day period, then either Seller or Buyer shall have
the right, at its respective sole option and as its respective sole and exclusive remedy, and
notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, to terminate this Agreement upon
notice thereof to the other party within five (5) days after the expiration of such thirty (30) day
period, in which event Buyer shall receive a refund of the Earnest Money and thereafter neither
Seller nor Buyer will have any further liability, obligation or responsibility to the other under this
Agreement except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement.

If Buyer elects to extend the Closing Date in accordance with the terms of this Section 4.1 (k), then
Closing will occur within five (5) days after Seller delivers to Buyer the required estoppel
certificate from Hillside. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary,
Seller shall not incur any liability whatsoever in connection with its failure to obtain the required
estoppel certificate provided that Seller has used its commercially reasonably efforts to obtain the
required estoppel certificate from Hillside.

Buyer may waive the condition precedent to Closing set forth in this Section 4.1(g) by written
notice to Seller at any time, whereupon such condition will be deemed satisfied.

        Section 4.2     Accuracy of Due Diligence Materials. Seller makes no warranty or
representation of any kind with respect to any of the Due Diligence Materials prepared by third
parties, including but not limited to their accuracy or whether or not the same are complete. Seller
represents and warrants, however, that to Seller's actual knowledge, and subject to the Survival
Period, all the Due Diligence Materials (other than the Excluded Materials) which were prepared
by Seller itself or any of its employees internally are accurate in all material respects.

       Section 4.3. Use of Due Diligence Materials. Subject to the Government Records
Access and Management Act, UTAH CODE ANN. 63G-2-101 et seq. ("GRAMA") (a) Buyer shall
keep confidential all of the Due Diligence Materials and other non-public record infonnation
provided by Seller (collectively the "Confidential Materials" ), and (b) none of the Confidential
Mate1ials supplied by Seller shall be used or duplicated by Buyer for any purpose other than
                                               5
evaluation by Buyer and its related patties (including Buyer's consultants, on a need-to-know
basis, and City) of a possible acquisition of the Property. If, under GRAMA, Buyer is required to
disclose any of the Confidential Materials, (a) Buyer shall notify Seller immediately, and (b) Buyer
shall only disclose such as are required to be disclosed. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Seller
acknowledges that Buyer's entry into this Agreement was approved by Buyer's governing body in
a public meeting before its execution and delivery by Buyer and that this Agreement therefore is
not part of the Confidential Materials.

       Section 4.4    Retention or Return of Information. If this Agreement is te1minated for
any reason, upon Seller's written request all of the Due Diligence Materials provided by Seller to
Buyer shall be returned or otherwise delivered by Buyer to Seller.

        Section 4.5      Right to Enter and Inspect the Property. From the Effective Date until
the earlier of the Closing or termination of this Agreement, without limiting Section 5 .1 below,
Seller grants Buyer the non-exclusive right and license for Buyer and Buyer's employees,
representatives, agents and contractors to enter upon the Real Property for the purposes of
investigating and inspecting the Real Property and perfonning tests, studies and analyses with
respect to the Real Property, including, without limitation environmental audits and geotechnical
assessments, in each case however subject to existing rights of Hillside and Walgreens, and with
a minimum two (2) Business Days' advance notice to Seller and an opportunity for Seller to be
present at any such inspections or investigations. In no event shall Buyer have any right to conduct
any invasive or intrusive testing or inspections (or otherwise to perform any subsurface testing or
drilling) such as soil boring without at least five (5) days' prior written notice to Seller and Seller' s
approval, which shall be subject to limitations and conditions imposed under the Hillside Lease or
the Premises Lease but shall not otherwise be unreasonably withheld or delayed. Buyer shall
promptly provide Seller with copies of all inspection reports.

Buyer shall promptly repair any damage to the Real Property caused by any such inspections or
investigations and shall indemnify, defend, and hold hannless Seller for, from, and against any
and all claims arising from Buyer's exercise of the rights granted by this Section 4.5. Further,
before commencing any investigative activities on the Real Property, Buyer shall obtain or cause
its consultants to obtain (and provide evidence to Seller), at no cost or expense to Seller, a policy
of commercial general liability insurance covering any and all liability of Buyer and Seller with
respect to or arising out of any such investigative activities. Such policy of insurance shall be from
an insurance company reasonably acceptable to Seller, shall name Seller as an additional insured,
and shall be kept and maintained in force during the term of this Agreement and so long thereafter
as necessary to cover any claims of damages suffered by persons or property resulting from any
acts or omissions of Buyer and its employees, agents, contractors, suppliers, consultants or other
related parties. Such policy of insurance shall have liability limits of not less than Two Million
Dollars ($2,000,000.00) combined single limit per occurrence for bodily injury, personal injury
and property damage liability.

Buyer shall not unreasonably interfere with the operation of the Real Property dming the conduct
of such inspections. Buyer may not contact Hillside or Walgreens without Seller's prior written
consent in Seller's reasonable discretion and if so approved by Seller, Seller may cause a
representative of Seller to join Buyer in any such contact with such tenant(s). Buyer may contact
Seller's property manager at any time or from time to time during such period to discuss matters
concerning the Real Property.

                                                    6
                                       ARTICLE 5
                                 CONDITIONS TO CLOSING

        Section 5.1     Conditions to Buyer's Obligation to Close. Buyer's obligations to effect
the Closing are subject to satisfaction of the following conditions on and as of the Closing, unless
an earlier date is specified:

                (a)   Buyer's Investigations. Buyer shall be satisfied with Buyer's investigations
and inspections with respect to the Property by end of the Inspection Period. From the Effective
Date until 5:00 p.m. Utah time on the date that is sixty (60) days following the Effective Date (the
"Inspection Period"), Buyer has the absolute right to tenninate this Agreement for any reason or
no reason whatsoever, in Buyer's sole and absolute discretion. Unless Buyer gives written notice
to Seller and Escrow Agent terminating this Agreement and the Escrow on or prior to the expiration
of the Inspection Period, then Buyer shall be automatically deemed to have waived this
contingency and elected to proceed with this Agreement and deemed to have elected to effect the
Closing in accordance with this Agreement (subject to fulfillment of any remaining conditions of
Buyer's obligation to close ["conditions precedent"] under this Section 5.1), in which case the
Earnest Money shall become immediately non-refundable to Buyer except as otherwise expressly
provided in this Agreement.

If, however, prior to the expiration of the Inspection Period Buyer delivers written notice to Seller
and Escrow Agent expressly te1minating this Agreement, or if this Agreement is terminated due
to failure of any remaining conditions precedent under this Section 5.1, then the Earnest Money
shall be promptly refunded to Buyer and thereafter neither Buyer nor Seller shall have any further
rights, duties, liabilities or obligations under this Agreement except those that expressly survive
termination of this Agreement.

               (b)     Title Review. Buyer shall be satisfied with the status of title to the Real
Property as disclosed by the Title Commitment by the end of the Inspection Period. In that regard:

                        (i)     Buyer shall have until 6:00 p.m., Utah time, on the day which is
twenty (20) days before the end of the Inspection Period (the "Title Review Period'') in which to
review those items and to give Seller and Escrow Agent written notice of any title matter that is
unacceptable to Buyer in Buyer's sole and absolute discretion (each such matter, a "Disapproved
Title Matter"). All financial liens and encumbrances (such as trust deeds, mortgages, judgment
liens, and UCC fixture filings) encumbering the fee interest in the Property are hereby designated
by Buyer as Disapproved Title Matters without any need for written notice thereof by Buyer to
Seller. If, after the expiration of the Title Review Period but before the Closing, Escrow Agent
issues a supplement or amendment to the Title Commitment showing additional title matters
affecting the Property (an "Amended Title Commitment"), Buyer shall have a period of time (a
"Supplemental Title Review Period'') of five (5) Business Days from the date of Buyer's receipt
of both the Amended Title Commitment and a copy each document referred to in the Amended
Title Commitment in which to give Seller notice of dissatisfaction as to any such newly disclosed
additional Disapproved Title Matter(s) not caused by Buyer. If Buyer does not object to a matter
disclosed by the Title Commitment or first disclosed by an Amended Title Commitment within
the applicable time period, such matter shall be deemed to have been approved by Buyer. If the
Closing would otherwise occur prior to expiration of a Supplemental Title Review Period, the
Closing Date shall automatically be extended to two Business Days following the expiration of the
                                                  7
Supplemental Title Review Period.

                        (ii)   Buyer may, by giving written notice (a "Disapproval Notice") to
Seller and Escrow Agent within the Title Review Period or Supplemental Title Review Pe1iod, as
applicable, either: (A) tenninate this Agreement; or (B) accept title subject to Seller's removal or
insming over of the Disapproved Title Matters that Seller has expressly agreed to remove or insure
over, if any, with Seller to determine whether or not to do such in Seller's sole and absolute
discretion within (A) for the Title Review Period, seven (7) days, or (B) for a Supplemental Title
Review Period, three (3) days, in each case after Seller's receipt of Buyer's Disapproval Notice. If
Seller does not timely send a written notice (a "Response Notice") to Buyer affirmatively stating
that Seller intends to remove or insure over the subject Disapproved Title Matter(s), Seller shall
be deemed to have elected to take no action as to the applicable Disapproved Title Matter(s).

If Seller elects (or is deemed to have elected) not to remove or insure over any subject Disapproved
Title Matter(s), Buyer shall have three days thereafter to determine whether to (A) waive such
objection(s) and proceed to Closing, or (B) tenninate this Agreement on account of same, in which
case the Earnest Money shall be promptly returned to Buyer and this Agreement shall terminate
(except as expressly provided in this Agreement). If Buyer does not timely elect to waive its
objection(s) Buyer shall be deemed to have elected to terminate this Agreement.

If, however, Seller timely elects in its Response Notice to attempt to remove or insure over any
Disapproved Title Matter(s) Seller shall use commercially reasonable efforts, at Seller' s expense,
to remove such Disapproved Title Matters or obtain title insurance endorsements insuring over
such Disapproved Title Matters before the Closing. If Seller cannot remove or insure over such
Disapproved Title Matters before the Closing, then following Seller's written notice to that effect
Buyer either may terminate this Agreement at Buyer's election, in which event the Earnest Money
shall promptly be returned to Buyer, or Buyer may waive such objections and the Closing shall
occur as scheduled.

                        (iii)  The matters shown in the Title Commitment and any Amended Title
Commitment (other than standard printed exceptions and exclusions that will be included in the
Title Policy [defined below]) that are approved or deemed approved by Buyer in accordance with
this Section 5.1(b), and any other matters caused by Buyer or approved by Buyer in writing by the
required approval deadline above, are referred to in this Agreement as the "Approved Title
Exceptions."

                       (iv)  Title shall be deemed good, marketable and insurable only if the
Title Commitment allows for issuance of an Owner's ALTA Policy effective as of the Closing
Date at minimum promulgated risk rate premiums and without any exceptions, standard or
otherwise, other than the Approved Title Exceptions.

               (c)     Escrow Agent Prepared to Close and Title Company Prepared to Issue Title
Policy. Except as results from Buyer's breach of this Agreement, at Closing Escrow Agent shall
be prepared to close the Transaction, and Title Company shall be prepared to issue the Title Policy
to Buyer in the fo1m required by this Agreement.

               (d)     Compliance. Seller shall have materially perfonned all of Seller obligations
on or before the Closing.

                                                 8
If any of the foregoing conditions are not fulfilled on or before the date by which such condition
is to have been satisfied and such condition has not otherwise been waived by Buyer in writing,
Buyer may, by written notice to Seller, given at any time prior to the Closing, terminate this
Agreement. Upon such tennination, Buyer shall be entitled to a return of the entire Earnest Money.

        Section 5.2     Conditions to Seller's Obligation to Close. Seller's obligation to close the
Transaction is subject to Buyer having perfonned all of its monetary and other material obligations
to be perfonned hereunder on or before the Closing. If the foregoing condition is not fulfilled or
otherwise waived by Seller in w1iting, Seller may as its sole remedy, by written notice to Buyer,
in Seller's discretion, either extend the Closing to such date as Seller determines to be necessary
to allow satisfaction of Buyer's outstanding obligations, or terminate this Agreement, subject to
Section 12.1. Upon such termination, Seller shall be entitled to receive and retain the Earnest
Money as its sole remedy for Buyer's failure to close on the purchase of the Property.

                                            ARTICLE6
                                            CLOSING

        Section 6.1     Time of Closing. The closing of the Transaction and the Escrow (the
"Closing") shall occur, if at all, at the offices of Escrow Agent on a date (the "Closing Date") that
is on or before ninety (90) days after the Effective Date that is specified by Buyer with at least ten
(10) days ' prior written notice to Seller. Seller may, however, extend the Closing Date for up to
three (3) additional periods of thirty (30) days each in order to accommodate any 1031 exchange
Seller elects to complete in connection with the sale of the Property, provided that Seller delivers
to Buyer and Escrow Agent written notice of each such extension at least five (5) Business Days
before the then-scheduled Closing Date.

         Section 6.2    Settlement Statement. At least three (3) Business Days prior to the
Closing, Escrow Agent shall prepare a draft closing settlement statement reflecting the various
charges, prorations and credits applicable to each party, as provided in this Agreement, and provide
Buyer and Seller with a copy of such draft settlement statement. Prior to the Closing, Buyer and
Seller shall have the tight to review and approve the draft closing settlement statement to ensure
such settlement statement conforms to the terms of this Agreement (as approved by Buyer and
Seller, the "Settlement Statement").

        Section 6.3    Seller's Closing Documents. On or before the Closing, Seller shall deposit
into the Escrow the following documents for delivery to Buyer or Escrow Agent (as applicable) at
the Closing, each of which shall have been duly executed and, where appropriate, acknowledged:

               (a)      Deed. A special warranty deed (the "Deed'') conveying the Real Property
to Buyer, subject only to the Approved Title Exceptions and the other matters described in Exhibit
D, substantially in the form of Exhibit "D" to this Agreement.

                (b)     Bill of Sale. A bill of sale conveying the Personal Property to Buyer
substantially in the fonn of Exhibit "E" to this Agreement.

              (c)   Lease Assignment; Leases. Two (2) miginal counterparts of an Assignment
and Assumption of Ground Lease (the "Lease Assignment") substantially in the fonn of Exhibit
"F" to this Agreement. On the Closing Date, Seller also shall deliver to Buyer the originally
executed Ground Lease to the extent that Seller has the same in Seller's possession.
                                                9
               (d)    FIRPTA Certification. A certification to Buyer and Escrow Agent, signed
and acknowledged by Seller, ce1iifying that Seller is not a nonresident alien, foreign corporation,
foreign partnership, foreign trust, foreign estate, other foreign person or "disregarded entity"
within the meaning of Sections 1445 and 770 1 of the Code and the related Treasury Regulations.

                (e)    Plans, Permits, Etc. All existing plans, pennits, licenses, warranties, and
specifications in Seller's possession relating to the Real Property, if any.

               (t)    Title Affidavit. Such affidavit as the Title Company may reasonably require
to remove its standard printed exceptions from the Title Policy, subject to approval by Seller's
legal counsel.

              (g)    Additional Documents. Such other reasonable, customary documents as
Buyer and/or Escrow Agent deems reasonably necessary from Seller to transfer and convey all the
Property to Buyer and to otherwise consummate the Transaction in accordance with the tenns of
this Agreement.

       Section 6.4     Buyer's Closing Documents. On or before the Closing, Buyer shall
deposit into the Escrow the following documents for delivery to Seller or Escrow Agent (as
applicable) at the Closing, each of which shall have been duly executed and, where appropriate,
acknowledged:

              (a)     Lease Assignment. Two (2) original counterparts of the Lease Assignment;

             (b)      Contract Assignment. Two (2) original counterparts of the Contract
Assignment; and

               (c)     Additional Documents. Such other documents as Seller and/or Escrow
Agent deems reasonably necessary or appropriate to consummate the Transaction in accordance
with the terms of this Agreement.

        Section 6.5     Title Policy. Promptly following the Closing, Escrow Agent shall provide
Buyer with an ALTA standard or, if requested by Buyer, extended owner's policy of title insurance
(the "Title Policy"), in the amount of the Purchase Price, issued by Escrow Agent or the Title
Company, as the case may be, insuring Buyer that fee simple title to the Property is vested in
Buyer, subject to the usual printed exceptions and exclusions contained in such title insurance
policies and to the Approved Title Exceptions. Seller shall pay for the standard coverage portion
of the Title Policy at the Closing. Buyer shall pay for any extended coverage portion of the Title
Policy at the Closing as well as the cost of any endorsements to the Title Policy and any survey
required for same. In no event shall the commitment of the Title Company to issue the Title Policy
as an extended (as opposed to standard) coverage owner's policy be a condition to Closing or
otherwise a basis to delay Closing.

       Section 6.6    Closing Costs and Prorations.

                (a)   Escrow Charges. Upon the Closing, Seller and Buyer each shall pay one-
half (1/2) of Escrow Agent's reasonable charges for the Escrow.

                                                10
               (b)     Recording Fees. Fees for recording the Deed and the release of any
monetary encumbrances impacting the Property not caused by Buyer which Seller is required to
have released as provided in Section 5.l(b)(ii) shall be paid by Seller at Closing. All other
recording fees shall be shared equally by Buyer and Seller.

              (c)     Prorations. Seller shall be deemed to own the Property through the Closing
Date, and Buyer shall be deemed to own the Property thereafter. The prorations shall be made by
Escrow Agent as follows:

                       (i)     Because ad valorem property taxes on and assessments against the
Property ("Taxes") are to be paid by Hillside under the Ground Lease, such taxes and assessments
for 2025 shall not be prorated between Buyer and Seller as of Closing but any delinquent property
taxes and assessments for 2024 and prior shall be satisfied by Seller at Closing.

                         (ii)     Seller shall pay for all water, sewer, utility charges, common area
maintenance charges, and other operating expenditures which are not tenant charges through the
day before the Closing Date. If final readings have not been taken, estimated charges shall be
prorated between the parties and appropriate credits given, and post-closing adjustments shall be
made when the actual billings are received, but in no event after the Outside Proration Date. Buyer
shall transfer the utility bills to Buyer's own name as of the Closing Date so that Buyer will be
responsible for all utility charges accruing on and after the Closing Date, with Seller being directly
billed for all utility charges accruing prior to the Closing Date. There shall be no proration of the
above-detailed items to the extent to be paid by the tenant under the Ground Lease.

                       (iii)   To the extent the Ground Lease provides that the tenant thereunder
is required to reimburse Seller for operating and maintenance expenses of the Real Property for
such periods as are set forth in the Ground Lease, those expenses (if actually collected) shall be
prorated as of the Closing Date. Within ninety (90) days after the Closing Date Seller shall deliver
to Buyer a full accounting of the year-to-date 2025 operating, maintenance and other expenses
payable and paid by the tenant under the Ground Lease.

                        (iv)  Rents and other revenue under the Leases (collectively, "Rents")
shall be prorated as follows:

                              (A)     If, pursuant to the Ground Lease, Seller has actually received
Rents relating to the month of the Closing, such Rents shall be prorated between Buyer and Seller
as of the Closing Date.

                              (B)    Rents actually collected by Seller prior to the Closing and
relating solely to months prior to the month of the Closing belong to Seller and shall not be
prorated. Rents actually collected by Buyer following the Closing and relating solely to months
following the month of the Closing belong to Buyer and shall not be prorated.

                              (C)     Seller shall be entitled to all claims for unpaid Rents relating
to months prior to the month of the Closing, and Seller may use court action to collect such Rents.

                            (D)     If at the Closing, Rents are due and unpaid for the month of
the Closing ("Uncollected Rents"), Seller shall receive a credit at the Closing on account of such
Uncollected Rents. Following the Closing for a period of 90 days (and not thereafter), Seller
                                                11
agrees, at no cost or expense to Seller, to reasonably cooperate with Buyer in collecting any
Uncollected Rents but shall not be required to commence any comt action or proceeding or take
any measure to assist Buyer in collecting any Uncollected Rents. For any Uncollected Rents for
which Seller received a credit at Closing, Buyer shall be entitled to retain any Uncollected Rents
upon Buyer's collection of Uncollected Rents.

                              (E)    Any unapplied security deposits under the Ground Lease
shall be credited to Buyer at the Closing by charging Seller with the total amount of any such
unapplied security deposits and by crediting Buyer with such amount.

                             (F)   All other prorations not expressly addressed m this
Agreement, shall be made in accordance with custom in Salt Lake County, Utah.

               (d)    Miscellaneous Closing Costs. Any other Closing costs not expressly
provided for in this Agreement shall be paid by Buyer and Seller according to Escrow Agent's
usual and customary practice for Salt Lake County, Utah.

               (e)    Method ofPayment. All Closing costs payable by Seller shall be deducted
from Seller's proceeds at the Closing. On or before the Closing, Buyer shall deposit with Escrow
Agent funds sufficient to pay all Closing costs payable by Buyer.

        Section 6.7     Payments and Disbursements to Be Handled through the Escrow. The
various charges, credits and prorations contemplated by this Agreement shall be handled by
Escrow Agent through the Escrow by appropriate charges and credits to Buyer and Seller and shall
be reflected in the Settlement Statement. All amounts payable pursuant to this Agreement shall be
paid to Escrow Agent for disposition through the Escrow. Escrow Agent is authorized to make all
disbursements to the parties and to third parties contemplated by this Agreement from funds
deposited for those purposes as necessary or appropriate to close the Transaction and as set forth
in the Settlement Statement. At the Closing, Seller's net proceeds shall be disbursed to Seller
pursuant to this Agreement, subject to the prorations and adjustments required by this Agreement.

                                  ARTICLE7
                  SELLER'S REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

        Section 7.1    Nature of Seller's Representations and Warranties. Each of Seller's
representations and warranties are true and accurate as of the Effective Date, shall be deemed
restated as accurate in all material respects as of the Closing (adjusted on account of any
Representation Matter), and shall survive the Closing for a period of nine months except that a
claim made for breach by Seller of any Fundamental Representation (defined below) or a claim
for fraud by Seller shall survive for the applicable statute of limitations (the "Survival Period'').

        Section 7.2    Representations and Warranties. Seller represents and warrants to Buyer
as follows:

                (a)    Organizational Status . Seller is a limited liability company duly organized,
validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of California, is qualified to do
business in the state of Utah and has full power and authority to enter into and to perform its
obligations under this Agreement. The persons executing this Agreement on behalf of Seller have
full power and authmity to do so and to perfonn every act and to execute and deliver every
                                                12
document and instrnment necessary or appropriate to consmmnate the Transaction.

               (b)    Entity Action. All entity action on the part of Seller required for the
execution, delivery and performance by Seller of this Agreement has been taken or will be taken
before the Closing.

                (c)     Enforceability o{Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the legal, valid
and binding obligation of Seller and is enforceable against Seller in accordance with its terms
except to the extent that enforceability may be limited by and subject to (i) applicable bankrnptcy,
insolvency, fraudulent conveyance, moratorium, or similar laws affecting the enforcement of
creditors' rights generally, and (ii) general principles of equity, regardless of whether enforcement
is sought in a court of law or equity.

               (d)     Tenant Matters. Except as otherwise set forth in the Due Diligence
Materials supplied by Seller (called the "Seller's Documents" in this Article 7) or the Tenant
Estoppel Certificate referred to in Section 4.1 (g) above:

                      (i)     The Ground Lease has not been modified or amended, but the
Parties acknowledge that a certain "Consent and Subordination Agreement" with Walgreens (the
" Walgreens Consent'') affects the Ground Lease, which shall be provided by Seller to Buyer as
part of the Due Diligence Materials and which will be binding upon Buyer after Closing;

                      (ii)     All obligations of Seller under the Ground Lease that have accrued
to the Effective Date have been performed in all material respects and to Seller's knowledge
Hillside has accepted Seller's performance of such obligations;

                       (iii)  Hillside has not asserted to Seller in writing an offset right, defense
or claim against rent or any other monetary obligation payable by it to Seller under the Ground
Lease that will remain applicable from and after Closing;

                       (iv)    There have been no monetary concessions of any nature granted to
Hillside that will remain applicable from and after Closing;

                      (v)   To the best of Seller's actual knowledge, Hillside is not in material
default in the performance of any its obligations required, or is in default or in arrears in the
payment of any sums due, under the Ground Lease;

                       (vi)    Neither base rent nor regularly payable estimated Tenant
contributions or operating expenses, insurance premiums, real estate taxes, common area charges,
and similar or other "pass through" or non-base rent items, nor any other item payable by Hillside
under the Ground Lease, has been heretofore prepaid for more than one (1) month in advance;

                       (vii) Hillside has not asserted any written claim (other than for customary
refund at the expiration of the Ground Lease) which remains pending to all or any part of any
security deposit;

                       (viii) Except as provided in Section 3(f) of the Ground Lease, to the best
of Seller' s actual knowledge Hillside does not have any right to renew or extend the term of the
Ground Lease; and
                                                13
                      (ix)    No commissions or other fees will remain payable after Closing to
any person or entity on the rentals collected or to be collected under the Ground Lease as of the
Closing Date.

              (e)     Non-Foreign Person. Seller is not a foreign person within the meaning of
Section 1445 of the Internal Revenue Code.

                (f)      No Employees. Seller has no employees at the Real Property and is not a
party to any collective bargaining agreement, and neither Seller nor any of its affiliates (as
described in Section 414(b), (c) and (m) of the Internal Revenue Code) has incurred any liability
which could subject Buyer or any asset to be acquired by Buyer pursuant to this Agreement to any
lien or material liability under Sections 302(£), 4062, 4063, 4064, 4201 or 4301 (b) of the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or Section 401(a) (29) or 412 of the Internal
Revenue Code.

                (g)     No Conflicts. Neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement nor the
consummation by Seller of the transaction contemplated hereby will (A) conflict with or result in
a breach of or default under any of the terms, conditions or provisions of any note, bond, m011gage,
indenture, license, agreement or other instrument or obligation to which Seller is a party or by
which it or the Property is bound, or (B) violate any order, injunction, decree, statute, rule or
regulation applicable to Seller or the Property.

                (h)     No Leases or Contracts. Except for (i) any of the instruments, agreements
or documents identified in the Title Commitment, (ii) the Ground Lease, the Walgreens Consent
and other Ground Lease-related documents delivered by Seller to Buyer as required under this
Agreement, and (iii) any other of the Seller's Documents provided by Seller to Buyer hereunder,
Seller is not a party to any leases, contracts, arrangements, licenses, concessions, easements, or
other agreements, including, without limitation, service ainngements and employment
agreements, either recorded or umecorded, written or oral, affecting the Property or any portion
thereof or the use thereof (individually a "Property Agreement' and collectively the "Property
Agreements") that may not be terminated by Seller; provided, however, that Seller's failure to
disclose any Property Agreement which may be terminated by Seller on not more than thirty
(30) days' notice without premium or penalty will not constitute a breach of this representation
and warranty.

               (i)    No Default. Seller has not given or received written notice of any material
default under the Ground Lease which is presently uncured.

                U)     No Use. No person or entity other than Hillside, Walgreens and parties
benefitting from easements of public record have any right to use, occupy or possess all or any
portion of the Property under an agreement, whether written or oral, with Seller.

               (k)     No Claims. To Seller's Knowledge, no action, suit, claim, investigation or
other proceeding is pending or has been threatened in writing, before or by any federal, state,
municipal or other govermnental department, commission, board, bureau, agency or
instrumentality, that concerns or involves the Property in any material manner.

               (1)     No Violation. Except as provided with the Seller's Documents, Seller has
                                               14
not received w1itten notice from any governmental autho1ity of any violation of any federal, state,
county or municipal laws, ordinances, orders, regulations and requirements affecting the Prope1ty
or any portion thereof (each a "Governmental Violation" and collectively the "Governmental
Violations"). If, after the Effective Date and prior to Closing, Seller receives written notice of a
Governmental Violation, Seller shall promptly notify Buyer of such Governmental Violation;
provided, however that if Seller notifies Buyer of a Governmental Violation after the expiration of
the Inspection Period but before the Closing which will cost more than Ten Thousand Dollars
($10,000.00) in the aggregate to remedy, Buyer shall have the right, at Buyer' s option and as
Buyer's sole and exclusive remedy either to: (i) terminate this Agreement by w1itten notice to
Seller within five (5) days after the delivery of such written notice by Seller to Buyer; whereupon
this Agreement shall terminate, the Earnest Money shall be returned to Buyer and both parties
shall be released of all further obligations hereunder except those specifically provided to survive
termination, or (ii) proceed with the Closing and accept title to the Property subject to the disclosed
Governmental Violation, with appropriate reduction in the Purchase Price and with Buyer
assuming all liability for the disclosed Governmental Violation following Closing.

                (m)    No Purchase Right. Except as otherwise provided in the Ground Lease
and/or the Seller's Documents, the Property is not the subject of any unrecorded right of first
refusal or option to purchase granted by Seller to any third party and, except for the right of Buyer
to acquire the Property pursuant to this Agreement, no other person, finn or entity has any right
(granted by Seller or any of its affiliated entities or individuals) to acquire all or any portion of the
Property or any interest therein.

               (n)     No Written Notice o{Hazardous Materials. Except as set forth herein or in
the Seller's Documents, (i) since January 1, 2015 Seller has not received written notice of the
existence of any Hazardous Materials (defined below) located on the Property which are in
violation of any applicable Environmental Laws (defined below), and (ii) Seller's Documents
contain or will contain all of the environmental reports and assessments received by Seller on or
after January 1, 2015 with respect to the Real Property that Seller has in Seller's possession as of
the Effective Date. In this Agreement:

                       (i)     "Hazardous Materials" shall mean (A) any toxic substance or
hazardous waste, substance or related material, or any pollutant or contaminant; (B) radon gas,
asbestos in any form which is or could become friable, urea formaldehyde foam insulation,
transformers or other equipment which contain dielectric fluid containing levels of polychlo1inated
biphenyls in excess of federal, state or local safety guidelines, whichever are more stringent;
(C) any substance, gas material or chemical which is or may be defined as or included in the
definition of "hazardous substances", "toxic substances", "hazardous materials", "hazardous
wastes" or words of similar import under any federal, state or local statute, law, code, or ordinance
or under the regulations adopted or guidelines promulgated pursuant thereto, including, but not
limited to, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980,
as amended, 42 U.S.C. § 9061 et seq.; the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, as amended,
49 U.S.C. § 1801 , et seq.; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C.
§ 6901, et seq.; the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. § 1251 , et seq.;
and all relevant State environmental statutes; and (D) any other chemical, material, gas, or
substance, the exposure to or release of which is or may be prohibited, limited or regulated by any
governmental or quasi-governmental entity or authority that asserts or may assert jurisdiction over
the Property or the operations or activity at the Property, or any chemical, material, gas or
substance that does or may pose a hazard to the health and/or safety of the occupants of the
                                                 15
Prope1iy or the owners and/or occupants of property adj acent to or surrounding the Property.

                      (ii)   "Environmental Laws" means all applicable present federal, state or
local statutes, regulations, rules, ordinances, and codes and all applicable judicial and
administrative and regulatory decrees, judgments and orders relating to the protection of human
health or the environment.

               (o)     No Bankruptcy. To Seller's Knowledge, no bankruptcy, insolvency,
reorganization or similar action or proceeding, whether voluntaiy or involuntary, is pending, or
threatened, against Seller.

               (p)    Lease Documents. The Ground Lease and other Ground Lease related
documents, including the Walgreens Consent to be delivered to Buyer by Seller with Seller's
Documents (or prior thereto), are all of the lease documents and/or occupancy agreements entered
into by Seller and in Seller's possession with respect to the Property and are true, accurate and
complete copies of such documents. Seller has made no other oral or w1itten sale, lease, rental,
occupancy or similar agreements affecting the Real Property which remain valid and enforceable
by any third paiiy.

For purposes of this Agreement, "Knowledge" or "knowledge" of Seller at any time, or words to
that effect, means the actual conscious knowledge, without due inquiry, any investigation or any
due diligence, of Fred Vitt (without personal liability whatsoever) as of the Effective Date, Seller
hereby representing to Buyer that Fred Vitt is most knowledgeable of Seller's officers and
employees concerning the Real Property.

        Section 7.3     Limitation on Seller's Representations and Warranties. Except as may
be expressly otherwise provided in this Agreement, Seller has made no representations or
warranties with respect to any aspect of the Transaction, Seller's Documents (including without
limitation their truthfulness, accuracy or completeness), and/or any physical aspects of the Real
Property, and no such representations or warranties shall be deemed implied. Seller hereby
disclaims any such implied representations or warranties.

        Section 7.4     Indemnification by Seller. From and after the Closing Seller shall defend,
indemnify and hold harmless Buyer, City, and their respective officers, employees and agents of
from and against any and all costs, fees, expenses, damages, deficiencies, interest and penalties
(including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees and disbursements) suffered or incurred
by any such indemnified party in connection with any and all losses, liabilities, claims, damages
and expenses ( collectively, "Losses") arising out of, or in any way relating to, breach of any
representation or warranty of Seller contained in this Agreement. The foregoing indemnity shall
be deemed to include actual Losses only, and not punitive, indirect or consequential damages. If
Buyer becomes aware of any such Losses or the likelihood of such Losses, Buyer shall give prompt
written notice to Seller and Seller shall have the right and opportunity to defend against such
Losses with counsel selected by Seller and reasonably acceptable to Buyer. In no event shall Seller
be liable for any Losses relating to any breach of any representation or wananty contained herein
if and to the extent that prior to Closing Buyer has or had actual knowledge of such breach (a
"Representation Matter") and Buyer elects to proceed to Closing notwithstanding same. This
Section 7.4 is subject to Section 11.3 and shall survive the Closing for the Survival Period.


                                                16
                                     ARTICLE 8
                      BUYER'S REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

        Section 8.1     Nature of Buyer's Representations and Warranties. Each of Buyer's
representations and warranties are true and accurate as of the Effective Date, shall be deemed
restated as accurate as of the Closing, and shall survive the Closing for the Survival Period (which
shall be extended automatically to include any time period necessary to resolve such claim if the
claim was made before expiration of the Survival Period but not resolved prior to such expiration),
except that a claim made for breach by Buyer of any Fundamental Representation or a claim for
fraud by Buyer shall survive for the applicable statute of limitations.

        Section 8.2     Representations and Warranties. Buyerrepresents and warrants to Seller
as follows:

                (a)     Organizational Status. Buyer is a public agency of City, is duly organized,
validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the state of Utah and has full power and
authority to enter into and to perform its obligations under this Agreement. The persons executing
this Agreement on behalf of Buyer have full power and authority to do so and to perform every act
and to execute and deliver every document and instrument necessary or appropriate to consummate
the Transaction.

               (b)    Entity Action. All entity action on the part of Buyer required for the
execution, delivery and performance by Buyer of this Agreement has been taken.

                (c)    Enforceability o{Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the legal, valid
and binding obligation of Buyer and is enforceable against Buyer in accordance with its tenns,
except to the extent that enforceability may be limited by and subject to (i) applicable bankruptcy,
insolvency, fraudulent conveyance, moratorium, or similar laws affecting the enforcement of
creditors' rights generally, and (ii) general principles of equity, regardless of whether enforcement
is sought in a court oflaw or equity.

        Section 8.3   Limitation on Buyer's Representations and Warranties. Except as
expressly otherwise provided in this Agreement, Buyer has made no representations or warranties
with respect to any aspect of the Transaction, and no such representations or warranties shall be
deemed implied. Buyer hereby disclaims any such implied representations or warranties.

        Section 8.4     Indemnification by Buyer. From and after the Closing Buyer shall defend,
indemnify and hold harmless Seller and its officers, employees and agents of from and against any
and all costs, fees, expenses, damages, deficiencies, interest and penalties (including, without
limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees and disbursements) suffered or incurred by any such
indemnified party in connection with any and all Losses arising out of, or in any way relating to,
breach of any representation or warranty of Buyer contained in this Agreement. The foregoing
indemnity shall be deemed to include actual Losses only, and not punitive, indirect or
consequential damages. If Seller becomes aware of any such Losses or the likelihood of such
Losses, Seller shall give prompt written notice to Buyer and Buyer shall have the right and
opportunity to defend against such Losses with counsel selected by Buyer and reasonably
acceptable to Seller. In no event shall Buyer be liable for any Losses relating to any breach of any
representation or wmrnnty contained herein if and to the extent that Seller had actual knowledge
of such breach prior to Closing and Seller elects to proceed to Closing notwithstanding same. This
                                                 17
Section 8.4 is subject to Section 11.3 and shall survive the Closing for the Survival Period.

                                         ARTICLE9
                                   RISK OF LOSS; DAMAGE

    Section 9.1        Risk of Loss. Seller shall bear all risk of loss concerning the Property
occurring prior to Closing.

      Section 9 .2      Damage. If any improvements located upon the Property are damaged or
destroyed by fire, st01m or other casualty before the Closing Date and such damage permits
Hillside to terminate the Ground Lease, and Hillside so elects to tenninate the Ground Lease, then
Buyer may, in Buyer's sole and absolute discretion, tenninate this Agreement by providing to
Seller and Escrow Agent written notice of termination within fifteen (15) days after receiving
written notice from Seller of the occurrence of such damage or destruction, whereupon the Earnest
Money shall be paid immediately by Escrow Agent to Buyer and, except as otherwise expressly
provided in this Agreement, neither Buyer nor Seller shall have any further rights, duties, liabilities
or obligations under this Agreement except for those that expressly survive termination of this
Agreement. If Buyer does not so terminate this Agreement the Closing shall proceed, subject to
the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement, with no reduction in the Purchase Price.

                                        ARTICLE 10
                                  ADDITIONAL COVENANTS

       Section 10.1 Possession. Possession of the Property shall be delivered to Buyer upon
consummation of the Closing, subject to the rights of other patties under the Ground Lease,
Premises Lease and recorded easements.

       Section 10.2 Pre-Closing Covenants. From the Effective Date through the earlier of the
Closing or the tennination of this Agreement, Seller shall:

               (a)    Compliance with Law. Materially comply with all laws, statutes, rules,
regulations and ordinances applicable to the Property.

              (b)     Maintenance. Maintain the Property (or cause it to be maintained) in its
physical condition as of the Effective Date (reasonable wear and tear excepted and subject to
casualty and condemnation events) and othe1wise in compliance in all material respects with all
applicable governmental laws, rules and regulations.

                (c)    Operation. Operate the Real Property in materially the same manner as
before the Effective Date, provided that until the earlier of termination of this Agreement or the
Closing, Seller shall not enter into any new lease or amend, extend or terminate the Ground Lease
without Buyer's prior written consent which Buyer may withhold in its unfettered discretion,
provided that such consent shall be deemed granted if Buyer does not approve or reasonably object
to any proposed new Lease, amendment or te1mination within ten (10) days after receipt of Seller's
written request for such approval (accompanied by a final or substantially final version of the
applicable instrument).

               (d)      Insurance. Maintain or cause to be maintained (through the Ground Lease)
all insurance policies covering the Property as of the Effective Date in full force.
                                                 18
                                      ARTICLE 11
                       "AS IS" SALE; LIMITATION ON LIABILITY

        Section 11.1 Inspections. If the Closing occurs then Buyer shall be deemed to have had
sufficient opportunity to make such independent factual, financial, physical and legal examinations
and inquiries as Buyer deems necessary, desirable and prudent with respect to the Property,
Hillside, and the Transaction.

       Section 11 .2 "As ls" Sale. Buyer hereby acknowledges, represents, warrants and agrees
to and with Seller that, except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement:

              (a)     Buyer is purchasing the Property in its existing condition "AS IS, WHERE
IS, AND WITH ALL FAULTS" with respect to all facts, circumstances, conditions and defects,
and without any warranties whatsoever, either express, implied or by operation oflaw.

               (b)     Seller has no obligation to inspect for, repair or correct any such facts,
circumstances, conditions or defects or to compensate Buyer for the same.

               (c)     Buyer is a sophisticated party and Seller has specifically bargained for the
assumption by Buyer of all responsibility to inspect and investigate the Property, Hillside, and the
Transaction, and of all risk of adverse conditions related thereto, and has structured the Purchase
Price and other tenns of this Agreement in consideration thereof.

                 (d)     Buyer has undertaken all such inspections, investigations, due diligence,
and public records inspections of the Property and Hillside as Buyer deems necessary or
appropriate under the circumstances as to the condition of the Property and Hillside and the
suitability of the Property and the Ground Lease for Buyer' s intended use. Consequently, Buyer is
and will be relying strictly and solely upon such inspections, due diligence and examinations and
the advice and counsel of its own consultants, agents, legal counsel and officers, and Buyer is and
will be fully satisfied that the Purchase Price is fair and adequate consideration for the Property.

                (e)     By reason of all the foregoing, but always subject to and without in any way
limiting Seller's representations, warranties, duties and obligations to Buyer under this Agreement:

                       (i)      Buyer assumes the full risk of any loss or damage occasioned by any
fact, circumstance, condition or defect pertaining to the Property or Hillside or the Ground Lease
and expressly and unconditionally waives and releases Seller and its parents, subsidiaries, affiliates
and partnerships, officers, directors, shareholders, partners, members, agents and employees, and
their respective successors, heirs and assigns (all collectively, the "Released Parties") from any
and all rights and claims against Seller and/or the other Released Parties with respect to the
Property (including without limitation the physical, enviromnental or other condition thereof, the
valuation, marketability or utility of the Property and any rights of Buyer under any state or federal
enviromnental or other law); and

                      (ii)     Buyer acknowledges and agrees that the foregoing waiver and
release includes any and all rights and claims of Buyer against Seller pertaining to the Property,
whether heretofore nor now existing or hereafter arising, or which could, might or may be claimed
to exist, of whatever kind or nature, whether known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected,

                                                 19
liquidated or unliquidated, each as though fully set forth herein at length, which in any way arise
out of or are connected with or relate to the Property. This release includes without limitation any
claims of which Buyer is presently unaware and of which Buyer does not presently suspect to exist
even if, were Buyer aware of same, such would have materially affected Buyer's release to Seller.
This release does not, however, include any claims based on Seller' s breach of a Fundamental
Representation or fraud by Seller.

         Section 11.3 Limitation of Liability. Each party acknowledges and agrees that neither
the trustees, shareholders, members, affiliates, officers, directors, investment managers,
employees, partners, agents nor advisors ("Principals") of the other party assume any personal
liability for obligations entered into by or on behalf of such party. Further, notwithstanding any
other provision of this Agreement to the contrary (or any 1ights that a party may have at law or in
equity):

                (a)     In no event shall either party have any liability to the other party for lost
profits, speculative, special, consequential or punitive damages.

               (b)     In no event shall a party's liability after Closing under or otherwise in
connection with this Agreement, any documents executed in connection herewith and/or otherwise
in connection with the Property exceed $350,000 (the "Liability Cap") except that the Liability
Cap shall not apply to any claim by or on behalf of a party against the other party (the "breaching
party") for breach or indemnification concerning fraud by the breaching party or any of its
Principals.

               (c)     "Fundamental Representation" means the parties' respective
representations and warranties in Sections 7.2( a) (Seller--Organizational Status, 7.2(b) (Seller--
Entity Action), 7.2(f) (Seller--No Employees), 7.2(g) (Seller--No Conflicts), 7.2(m) (Seller--No
Purchase Rights), 8.2(a) (Buyer Organizational Status), 8.3(b) (Buyer Entity Action), and 13.17
(Commissions).

               (d)    A patty shall have no right to assert any claim against a breaching patty,
and a breaching party shall have no liability to the other party whatsoever, unless the valid claims
for all breaches of the breaching party collectively aggregate more than Two Thousand Five
Hundred Dollars ($2,500.00).

                 (e)     Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, any
action or claim asserted by a party against a breaching party or any of the Released Parties must
be filed (if at all) within the Survival Period in a court of competent jurisdiction, and each party
hereby waives any right to bring any such claim or action thereafter.

Any and all liability beyond that which may be asserted under this Section 11.3 is expressly waived
and released by each party and by all persons claiming by, through or under each party. The
provisions of this Section 11.3 shall survive the Closing.

                                      ARTICLE 12
                                 DEFAULTS AND REMEDIES

        Section 12.1   Buyer's Default.

               (a)     Buyer's Default. The occurrence of any of the following shall constitute a
                                               20
default by Buyer under this Agreement:

                       (i)    If Buyer fails to timely effect the Closing on the Closing Date,
strictly as and when required by this Agreement;

                       (ii)     If Buyer fails to timely deposit any portion of the Earnest Money (or
any other funds required under this Agreement), strictly as and when required by this Agreement
(the foregoing items [i] and [ii] are each an "Immediate Default"); or

                        (iii)  If Buyer fails to observe or perform any of Buyer's other covenants
or agreements contained in this Agreement, provided that such failure shall not be a default unless
it continues for five (5) Business Days after written notice of default is given by Seller to Buyer.
In no event, however, shall the cure period be extended beyond the time set for the Closing.

                (b)     Seller's Remedies. If Buyer is in default with respect to any Immediate
Default, Seller's sole and exclusive remedy with respect to such default shall be to terminate this
Agreement and the Escrow, such tennination to be effective immediately on the date Seller gave
written notice of tennination to Buyer and Escrow Agent. Upon such te1mination, Seller shall be
entitled to receive and retain the Earnest Money as liquidated damages for such failure, and not as
a penalty, the parties agreeing and stipulating that the exact amount of damages would be
extremely difficult to ascertain and that the Earnest Money constitutes a reasonable and fair
approximation of such damages. If Buyer is in default with respect to any of its obligations under
this Agreement other than any Immediate Default, Seller shall have all rights and remedies at law
or in equity in connection with such default, provided that Seller shall not be pennitted to receive
any punitive, consequential or special damages. Seller irrevocably waives any right to damages or
any other remedies or fonn of relief, except as specifically set fo1ih in this Section 12.1 (b ),
provided that the foregoing shall not limit Seller's remedies with respect to Buyer's repair and
indemnification obligations under Section 4.5 or Section 13.7.

       Section 12.2    Seller's Default.

               (a)     Seller's Default. The occurrence of any of the following shall constitute a
default by Seller under this Agreement:

                      (i)    If Seller fails to timely effect the Closing on the Closing Date strictly
as and when required by this Agreement, for any reason other than Buyer's default; or

                        (ii)    If Seller fails to observe or perfonn any of the other covenants or
agreements contained in this Agreement to be observed or perfonned by Seller, provided that such
failure shall not be a default unless it continues for five (5) Business Days after written notice of
default is given by Buyer to Seller. In no event, however, shall the cure period be extended beyond
the time set for the Closing.

               (b)     Buyer's Remedies.

                      (i)    If Seller defaults and Buyer learns of such default before the Closing
(a "Preclosing Default"), Buyer may either, as its sole and exclusive remedy:

                               (A)     Waive the default and proceed with the Closing; or

                                                 21
                              (B)    Enforce specific performance of this Agreement against
Seller provided Buyer has deposited the Purchase P1ice and all its required closing documents with
Escrow Agent by the Closing Date and files an action for specific perfonnance within thirty (30)
days after the scheduled Closing Date and diligently prosecutes such to completion; or

                              (C)     Tenninate this Agreement by giving written notice to Seller
and Escrow Agent, in which case the Earnest Money shall be promptly disbursed to Buyer and
thereafter neither Buyer nor Seller shall have any further rights, duties, liabilities or obligations
under this Agreement except those that expressly survive te1mination of this Agreement.

Buyer irrevocably waives any right to damages or any other remedies or form of relief ( at law or
in equity) for a Preclosing Default.

                         (ii)   If Seller defaults and Buyer learns of such default after the Closing,
Buyer may pursue any and all damages, remedies and other fonns of relief that are available at
law or in equity, provided that (A) such relief shall be subject to the Survival Period (to the extent
it is applicable to the subject default) and the Liability Cap, and (B) Buyer shall not be permitted
to receive any punitive, consequential or special damages.

        Section 12.3 Exclusive Remedies. The remedies of the parties specified in this Section
12 shall be exclusive except as otherwise provided in this Agreement.

                                        ARTICLE 13
                                    GENERAL PROVISIONS

       The following provisions are also an integral part of this Agreement:

        Section 13.1 Binding Effect. The provisions of this Agreement are binding upon and
shall inure to the benefit of the parties and their respective heirs, personal representatives,
successors and permitted assigns.

        Section 13.2 Captions. The headings used in this Agreement are insetied for reference
purposes only and shall not be deemed to define, limit, extend, describe, or affect in any way the
meaning, scope or interpretation of any of the tenns or provisions of this Agreement or the intent
hereof.

        Section 13.3 Assignment. Buyer may not assign this Agreement or transfer any of
Buyer's rights under this Agreement to any person or entity without Seller's express prior written
consent, which Seller may withhold, condition, deny or delay in its sole and absolute discretion.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Buyer may assign this Agreement without Seller's consent to City
or to an agency or political subdivision of City or Buyer provided that Buyer provides to Seller a
copy of such written assignment at least five (5) Business Days before Closing. If Buyer assigns
this Agreement pursuant to this Section 13.3:

              (a)     The assignee shall be jointly and severally liable with Buyer for all of
Buyer's obligations under this Agreement and shall be deemed "Buyer" for all purposes under this
Agreement;

                                                  22
               (b)     The assignor (i.e., the 01iginal Buyer hereunder) shall remain jointly and
severally obligated with assignee with respect to all of Buyer's obligations under this Agreement;
and

                (c)  The assignor and any assignee shall execute such instruments of assignment
and assumption in such form as Seller reasonably may require in confirmation of the provisions of
this Section 13 .1.

       Section 13.4 Attorneys' Fees. If any action or proceeding is brought by either party
concerning this Agreement, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover its costs and reasonable
attorneys' fees, whether such sums are expended with or without suit, at t1ial, on appeal, or in any
bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding.

        Section 13.5 Waivers. No waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall
constitute a waiver of any other provision, whether or not similar, nor shall any waiver be a
continuing waiver. Except as expressly provided in this Agreement, no waiver shall be binding
unless executed in writing by the party making the waiver. Either party may waive any provision
of this Agreement intended for its benefit, but such waiver shall in no way excuse the other party
from the performance of any of its other obligations under this Agreement.

        Section 13.6 Notices. Any notice or other communication required or pennitted to be
given hereunder shall be deemed to have been received (a) upon personal delivery or actual receipt
thereof by hand delivery or by facsimile transmission, (b) upon acceptance or refusal of delivery
by Federal Express or a similarly reputable guaranteed overnight delivery service, or (c) within
three days after such notice is deposited in the United States mail, frrst-class postage prepaid and
certified and addressed to the respective addresses set forth above or to such other address(es) as
may be supplied by a party to the other from time to time in writing.

         Section 13.7 Time of Essence; Time Periods. Time is the essence in this Agreement. If
the time for the performance of any obligation or taking any action under this Agreement expires
on a Saturday, Sunday, Utah, California or federal legal holiday, or a day Escrow Agent is closed
for business, the time for performance or taking such action shall be extended to the next
succeeding day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, Utah or federal legal holiday, or other day Escrow
Agent is closed for business. As used in this Agreement, the term "Business Day" means any day
that is not a Saturday, Sunday, Utah or federal legal holiday, or other day Escrow Agent is closed
for business.

        Section 13.8 Further Documentation. Each party agrees in good faith to execute such
further or additional documents as may reasonably be necessary or appropriate to fully carry out
the intent and purpose of this Agreement.

        Section 13.9 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number ofidentical
counterpaits, and all counterparts shall be deemed to constitute a single agreement. The execution
of one counterpart by any party shall have the same effect as if that party had signed all other
counterparts. The signatures to this Agreement may be executed on separate pages and when
attached to this Agreement shall constitute one complete document. This Agreement may be
signed and delivered by facsimile, email or other electronic transmission, and each facsimile, email
or electronic copy so signed shall be deemed an original of this Agreement.

                                                 23
         Section 13 .10 Construction. Each of the parties to this Agreement acknowledges that
such party has had the benefit of independent counsel with regard to this Agreement and that this
Agreement has been prepared as a result of the joint efforts of all parties and their respective
counsel. Accordingly, all parties agree that the provisions of this Agreement shall not be construed
or interpreted for or against any party to this Agreement based upon authorship or any other factor,
but shall be conshued and interpreted according to the ordinary meaning of the words used so as
to fairly accomplish the purposes and intentions of all parties to this Agreement.

       Section 13 .11 Severability. The provisions of this Agreement are severable, and should
any provision hereof be void, voidable, unenforceable or invalid, such void, voidable,
unenforceable or invalid provision shall not affect the other provisions of this Agreement.

        Section 13 .12 Governing Law; Venue. This Agreement shall be construed according to
the laws of the State of Utah without giving effect to its conflict oflaws principles. Venue for any
legal proceedings arising out of this Agreement shall be in the Third Judicial District Court in and
for Salt Lake County.

        Section 13 .13 Amendment. This Agreement may not be modified or supplemented except
by an instrument in writing signed by the parties hereto.

       Section 13 .14 Entire Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement
between the parties pertaining to the subject matter of this Agreement. All prior and
contemporaneous agreements, representations and understandings of the parties, oral or written,
are superseded by and merged in this Agreement.

       Section 13.15 Section 1031 Exchange. At Seller's election, risk and cost Buyer shall
cooperate with any effort by Seller to consummate the Transaction as part of a so-called like-kind
exchange (an "Exchange") pursuant to Section 1031 of the Code, provided that:

               (a)      Except as specified in Section 6.1, the Closing shall not be delayed or
affected by reason of the Exchange nor shall the consummation or accomplishment of an Exchange
be a condition precedent or condition subsequent to Seller's obligations under this Agreement;

                (b)      Seller shall effect its Exchange through an assignment of this Agreement,
or its rights under this Agreement, to a qualified intermediary, as is required by the express terms
governing assignment of this Agreement;

               (c)    Buyer shall not be required to take an assignment of the purchase agreement
for the relinquished or replacement property or be required to acquire or hold title to any real
property for purposes of consummating an Exchange desired by Seller; and

             (d)     Seller shall pay any additional costs that would not otherwise have been
incurred by Buyer had Seller not consummated the Transaction through an Exchange (such
payment obligation shall survive Closing or any termination of this Agreement). Buyer shall not
by this Agreement or acquiescence to an Exchange desired by Seller have its rights under this
Agreement affected or diminished in any manner or be responsible for compliance with or be
deemed to have warranted to Seller that its Exchange in fact complies with Section 1031 of the
Code.

                                                 24
        Section 13.16 Survival. All of the parties' respective representations, covenants and
wan-anties and obligations (including, without limitation, any obligation to indemnify) set forth
herein shall survive the Closing and the delivery of any deeds, bills of sale or the like contemplated
herein.

        Section 13 .17 Commissions. The parties acknowledge that Gan-ett Blomquist, Scott
Brady, JR Howa and Josh Vance of Mountain West Commercial Real Estate ("Mountain West
Commercial") jointly represent Buyer in the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. Seller
shall pay a sale commission to Mountain West Commercial pursuant to a separate agreement.
Subject to the foregoing, each party (a) represents and wan-ants to the other that there are no claims
for brokerage commissions or finder's fees in connection with this Agreement, and that such party
has not dealt with, and has no knowledge of, any real estate broker, agent or salesperson in
connection with this Agreement; and (b) shall indemnify and hold the other harmless from and
against all claims for any real estate commissions and other fees with respect to the procurement
and closing of this Agreement made by any person or entity with whom such party has dealt or is
alleged to have dealt.

        Section 13.18 Force Maieure. Each date by which a condition or obligation (other than a
payment obligation) set forth herein must be satisfied shall be extended by the number of days (in
no event more than an aggregate 120 days) during which satisfaction of such condition or
obligation is necessarily delayed by strikes; lockouts; civil strife; war; natural disasters; acts of
God; unavailability of materials or supplies; delays by governmental authorities or any lender in
giving any required approvals; or any other events beyond the control of the party required to
perfonn, so long as the party charged with performance in that situation diligently pursues such
performance.

        Section 13.19 Memorandum. No "short form" or other memorandum (or equivalent) of
this Agreement may be recorded against title to part or all of the Property without Seller's prior
written consent.

                                      [Signature page follows]




                                                  25
      EXECUTED as of the Effective Date.


                                          SELLER:
                                          COTTONWOOD HP, LLC,
                                          a Delaware limited liability company


                                          By: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _



                                          BUYER:
                                          COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS COMMUNITY
ATTEST:                                   DEVELOPMENT AND RENEWAL AGENCY


By_ __ __ _ _ _ _ _ __                    By: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _
  Tiffany Janzen, Secretary                   Jared Gerber, CEO


                                          By:
                                                - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --
                                                Michael T. Weichers, Chair of the Board


Approved as to form:




Wm. Shane Topham, Agency Counsel


                         ACCEPTANCE BY ESCROW AGENT

The undersigned Escrow Agent: (a) accepts the Escrow created by the foregoing Agreement; and
(b) agrees to act in accordance with the terms of the Agreement.

OLD REPUBLIC TITLE


By:_ _ __ _ _ _ __ __
Name: - -- - - -- - - - -
Its: - - - -- - - -- - - - -
Date: - - - -- - -- - - - -




                                             26
                                Exhibit "A"
                    to Real Property Purchase Agreement
The following-described real property located in Salt Lake County, Utah:

Lot 2, HILLSIDE PLAZA SUBDIVISION, according to the official plat thereof, on file and of
record in the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder, State of Utah.

Together with the nonexclusive easements for ingress and egress by vehicular and pedestrian
traffic and for vehicular parking, as created, defined and described pursuant to the provisions of
that certain Declaration of Restrictions and Reciprocal Easements, recorded August 26, 1976, as
Entry No. 2849657, in Book 4315 at Page 174, of the Official Records, and any amendments
thereto.

Also together with the nonexclusive easements for vehicular ingress and egress, vehicular parking,
pedestrian access, and existing underground utilities, as created, defined and described pursuant to
the provisions of that certain Declaration of Covenants, Easements, and Restrictions, recorded
August 1, 2006, as Entry No. 9798315, in Book 9329 at Page 7274, of the Official Records, and
any amendments thereto.

The Real Property also is shown outlined in yellow on the site plan that is attached to this
Agreement as Exhibit "B."

Tax Parcel No. 22-27-201-035
            Exhibit "B"
to Real Property Purchase Agreement

      (Attach Site Plan ofReal Property)




                      2
                                          DISCL.AlMER
Cottonwood           Published:           Th11 ,-.1,1p rt provided on a,n H h, t.1111,, M to ih• uu of thts map )'Ot.l are
Heights              02 September 2025    ,dmtd 1h11 Conol'Mvod H.lghb mall.H no wananbu Hpren.d or
2277 E Bengal Blvd   Sources:             l'l'f)iff es 10 tht quality, and compi.tentn, d d\e ~p and data
                                          provks.d Effort, havt bffn madt to t l'\Sure IN accuracy of IN
Cottonwood           UGRC                 ducnpt10m repreurrted on this map, ~1 tM lnformabon ll l u ~ in
                                          MMe ard is 1ub}-c:t to c:hlngt, 'Mlhout nc:itic.
Heights, UT 84121    Salt Lake County     Conon'M)Od Htights rHervH th. nght to make ongoing changes to f\is
                     Cottonwood Heights


                                          -..
(801) 944-7000                            Worrnauon ~ n tt dt.ms. -:,propnat• 'Mthout at,Lgat.on to any ptrM)l"I,
                                          org•nrnton or oth~ tnt.,ty. \VI-It. Cottonwood H~hil hi!, rt'M'Wfl:l lhe
                     Nearmap              data and in!onnabon rtprHtnltd on th:S map. in no t-ve n& s ha'f
                                          Concn'M>Od Htlghh be h~ tia~ for damagH • ris.ng from UM 'af
                                Exhibit "C"
                    to Real Property Purchase Agreement
                            (Form of Tenant Estoppel Certificate)

                                ESTOPPEL CERTIFICATE

Master Tenant:              Hillside-West LLC
                            c/o Phillips Edison & Company Ltd.
                            11501 Northlake Drive
                            Cincinnati, OH 45249

Master Landlord /
Ground Lessor:               Cottonwood HP, LLC
                             c/o Hillside Plaza Partners, LLC
                             445 South Douglas Street, Suite #100
                             El Segundo, CA 90245

Buyer:                       Cottonwood Heights Community Development
                              and Renewal Agency
                             2277 East Bengal Blvd.
                             Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121

Premises:                    2316 East Fort Union Blvd.
                             Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121

Ground Lease:                The Ground Lease agreement dated August 9, 2007 between Master
                             Landlord and Master Tenant for the real property containing
                             approximately 1.1 acres and all improvements located thereon

Lease:                       The Ground Lease


IN ORDER TO INDUCE BUYER TOTAKE ACTION ON CONNECTION UNDER A REAL
PROPERTY PURCHASE AGREEMENT ("RPA") WITH MASTER LANDLORD/ GROUND
LESSOR CONCERNING THE PREMISES AND A CORRESPONDING ASSIGNMENT OF
THE GROUND LEASE, UNDERSTANDING THAT BUYER IS RELYING ON THE
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES AND AGREEMENT IN TAKING ACTION IN
CONNECTION WITH THE PSA:

1.    Master Tenant hereby certifies, as true and correct, the following representations and
warranties:

         a.   The Ground Lease and all amendments thereto are listed on Exhibit "A" attached
              hereto reflect the true, correct and complete agreement between Ground Lessor
              and Master Tenant with respect to the real property described in the Ground Lease.
              The Ground Lease has not been amended or modified except as listed on Exhibit
              "A" and is in full force and effect.

         b.   The current month's base rent under the Ground Lease is $18,650.67. Master
              Tenant has not received a notice of default regarding any delinquency of such
              payments.
                                               3
      c.    All conditions precedent (including, but not limited to, the construction of the
            improvements and the occupancy of other tenants, termination rights for
            contingencies specified in the Ground Lease, and Sub-Landlord's payment or
            reimbursement for costs of construction and/or allowances and any reviews and
            approvals) to Master Tenant's obligations to take possession of and continue to
            occupy the real property described in the Ground Lease and to payment of rent
            and other sums under the Ground Lease have been fulfilled.

     d.     As of the date hereof, neither Master Landlord nor Master Tenant is in default
            under the tenns and conditions of the Ground Lease, nor is Master Tenant aware
            of any matter with which the passage of time or the giving of notice would
            constitute a default under the Ground Lease.

     e.     Master Tenant has not received a notice that Master Landlord has made any other
            assignment, pledge or hypothecation of the Ground Lease or of any sums due
            thereunder.

     f.     The commencement date of the term of the Ground Lease pursuant to Section 7
            of the Ground Lease, was July 4, 2008. The term of the Ground Lease will expire
            on July 31, 2048, unless sooner terminated as provided in the Ground Lease.

     g.     Master Tenant is not a party to any side letters or other arrangements other than
            as listed on Exhibit A, whether or not constitution amendments to the Ground
            Lease, for tenant inducements such as rebates of or reduction in the rental
            provided for in the Ground Lease.

     h.     There is no security deposit under the Ground Lease.

2.   This certificate shall insure to the benefit of Buyer, its successors and assigns, and shall
     be binding upon Master Tenant, its successors and assigns. This certificate shall not be
     deemed to alter or modify any of the terms and conditions of the Ground Lease except to
     the extent specifically set forth herein.

3.   The words "breach" and "default" are used interchangeably in this certificate and there is
     no distinction between the meaning.

BlNER IS RELYING ON THE STATEMENTS AND AGREEMENTS CONTAINED IN THIS
CERTIFICATE IN TAKING ACTION RESPECTIVE TO THE PSA.

EXECUTED - -- - - - 2025.

                                           HILLSIDE-WEST LLC,
                                           By:  Phillips Edison Institutional
                                                REIT LLC, its sole member
                                           By:  Phillips Edison Institutional Joint
                                                Venture I, L.P., its manager
                                           By:  PAI GP LLC, its general partner

                                           By:

                                           Print:
                                           Its:

                                              4
                                         EXHIBIT "A"

                              Ground Lease and any amendments


Ground Lease dated August 9, 2007 by and between Cottonwood HP, LLC, as successor in interest
to Hillside Plaza Partners, LLC as " Ground Lessor" and Hillside - West, LLC, as "Ground Lessee"
- Wal greens # 10731




                                                5
                                 Exhibit "D"
                     to Real Property Purchase Agreement
                                          (Form ofDeed)


AFTER RECORDING RETURN TO:

COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CDRA
2277 East Bengal Blvd.
Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121

                                    Special Warranty Deed
       FOR GOOD AND VALUABLE CONSIDERATION, the receipt and legal sufficiency
of which is hereby acknowledged, COTTONWOOD HP, LLC, a California limited liability
company whose address is 445 South Douglas Street, #100, El Segundo, CA 90245 ("Grantor" ),
hereby conveys and warrants, against all claiming by, through or under Grantor, to
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND RENEWAL
AGENCY ("Grantee"), a public agency of the city of Cottonwood Heights, Utah, whose address
is 2277 East Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121, that certain real property (the
"Property") consisting of approximately 1.09 acres of ground and Grantee's interests in all
improvements thereon, that is located on the Southeast comer of the intersection of Ft. Union Blvd.
and 2300 East street in Cottonwood Heights, Salt Lake County, UT and that is particularly
described as follows:

       [Insert legal description]

       Tax Serial No. 22-27-201-035

        SUBJECT TO (a) exception nos. _ _ _ __ _on the exhibit that is annexed hereto,
which are the "Approved Title Exceptions" under Section 5.l(b) of the Real Property Purchase
Agreement dated ___ _ 2025 between Grantor, as Seller, and Grantee, as Buyer; (b) any other
matters of which Grantee has actual knowledge or actual notice as of the date hereof, if and as proven
by Grantor; and (c) matters which an accurate survey or inspection of the Property would reveal or
disclose.

       DATED effective        - - - - 2025.

                                              GRANTOR:

                                              COTTONWOOD HP, LLC, a California limited
                                              liability company


                                              By:_ __ __ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _


                                                  6
STATE OF - - -- - --      -
                              )
                              : ss.
COUNTY OF - - - - -- -        )

      The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me on _ __ __ 2025 by
_ __ _ _ as the _ _ _ __ of COTTONWOOD HP, LLC, a California limited liability
company.



                                          Notary Public




                                      7
                                 Exhibit "E"
                     to Real Property Purchase Agreement
                                      (Form ofBill ofSale)

                                         Bill of Sale
        THIS BILL OF SALE (this "Agreement'') is made effective _ _ _ _ _ 2025 by
COTTONWOOD HP, LLC, a California limited liability company whose address is 445 South
Douglas Street, #100, El Segundo, CA 90245 ("Seller") , in favor of COTTONWOOD
HEIGHTS COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND RENEWAL AGENCY ("Buyer"), a
public agency of the city of Cottonwood Heights, Utah, whose address is 2277 East Bengal Blvd.,
Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121 , and is made pursuant to that certain "Real Property Purchase
Agreement" between Seller and Buyer dated _ _ _ __ 2025 (the "Purchase Contract")
whereunder Seller agreed to sell and convey to Buyer, and Buyer agreed to purchase and take from
Seller, certain real property commonly known as Tax Parcel No. 22-27-201-035 that is located on
the Southeast comer of the intersection of Ft. Union Blvd. and 2300 East street in Cottonwood
Heights, Salt Lake County, UT (the "Real Property"), as well as certain personal property owned
by Seller that is associated with the Real Property.

        NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and legal
sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, Seller does hereby, sell, transfer, assign, convey
and deliver to Buyer all of Seller's right, title and interest, if any, in and to the following:

        1.      Tangible Personal Property. The personal property, including without limitation,
furniture, furnishings, supplies and equipment, if any, owned by Seller and located in and used
exclusively in connection with the operation, ownership or management of the Real Property, as
defined and described in the Purchase Contract (collectively, the " Tangible Personal Property" );
and

       2.      Intangible Personal Property. The following-described items of intangible
personal property (collectively, the "Intangible Personal Property") (the Tangible Personal
Property and the Intangible Personal Property are collectively referred to herein as the "Personal
Property" ):

               (a)     All entitlements and rights relating to the Real Property;

              (b)      All plans, specifications, maps, drawings and other renderings relating to
the Real Property;

               (c)    All files (excluding the "Excluded Materials" referred to in the Purchase
Contract), books, records, intangible property, intangible rights, and similar rights benefiting the
Real Property;

               (d)    All permits, licenses, certificates of occupancy and governmental
approvals, including any currently pending permit or license applications, consents and
authorizations held and used by Seller in connection with the Real Property;

                                                 8
                (e)   All rights, claims or awards benefiting the Real Property, including, without
limitation, claims under property tax abatement and similar proceedings;

               (f)    All prepaid charges, deposits, sums and fees relating to the Real Property;
and

               (g)    All warranties, guarantees and agreements governing any of the foregoing.

     THE PERSONAL PROPERTY IS SOLD AND CONVEYED BY SELLER TO BUYER
IN AN "AS IS" "WHERE IS" CONDITION WITHOUT ANY REPRESENTATION OR
WARRANTY BY SELLER. WITHOUT LIMITING THE GENERALITY OF THE
FOREGOING, ALL WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, QUALITY OR FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE EXPRESSLY EXCLUDED AND DISCLAIMED. THE
DISCLAIMERS AND LIMITATIONS CONCERNING THE PERSONAL PROPERTY THAT
ARE CONTAINED IN THE PURCHASE CONTRACT ARE REAFFIRMED AND
INCORPORTED INTO THIS AGREEMENT BY THIS REFERENCE.

       DATED effective the date first-above written.

                                             SELLER:

                                             COTTONWOOD HP, LLC, a California limited
                                             liability company


                                             By:
                                                   - - - - -- - - - - - -- - -




                                                 9
                                  Exhibit "F"
                     to Real Property Purchase Agreement
                                   (Form ofLease Assignment)

         Assignment and Assumption of Leases and Deposits
        THIS ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION OF LEASES AND DEPOSITS (this
"Assignmenf') is made effective _ __ _ ____ 2025 (the "Effective Date") by and between
COTTONWOOD HP, LLC, a California limited liability company whose address is 445 South
Douglas Street, #100, El Segundo, CA 90245 ("Assignor"), and COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND RENEWAL AGENCY ("Assignee"), a public agency
of the city of Cottonwood Heights, Utah, whose address is 2277 East Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood
Heights, UT 84121.


       A.      Assignor is the owner of the real property described in Exhibit "A" attached to this
Assignment and is the holder of the landlord's interest under certain leases (the "Leases") which
are described in the Rent Roll attached to this Assignment as Exhibit "B" ("Rent Roll").

       B.      Pursuant to the terms of the "Real Property Purchase Agreement" dated effective
   _ _ ___ 2025 between Assignor, as Seller, and Assignee, as Buyer (the "Agreement"),
Assignor is assigning to Assignee and Assignee is acquiring from Assignor all of Assignor' s
assignable right, title, and interest in, to and under the Leases and all unapplied security deposits
under the Leases (the "Deposits").

                                       AGREEMENT:

        NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of
which are hereby acknowledged, and intending to be legally bound, Assignor and Assignee agree
as follows:

        1.     Assignment. Assignor hereby assigns, conveys, transfers and sets over unto
Assignee all of Assignor's right, title and interest in, to and under the Leases and any Deposits,
and all claims and causes of action under the Leases and any Deposits.

        2.     Assumption. From and after the Effective Date, Assignee hereby assumes the
Leases and assumes and undertakes full responsibility for the Deposits and any future disposition
or application of the Deposits.

        3.      Assignee's Indemnification of Assignor. Assignee hereby indemnifies Assignor
against, and agrees to defend and hold Assignor harmless for, from and against, all liabilities,
obligations, actions, suits, proceedings or claims, and all costs and expenses, including, without
limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees, incurred in connection with the Leases or the Deposits based
upon or arising out of any default or alleged default by Assignee occurring or alleged to have
occurred from and after the Effective Date, including, without limitation, the obligation to return
Deposits to tenants in accordance with and subject to the tenns and conditions of the Leases and
applicable law.
       4.       Warranties. The warranties contained in this Assignment are made and given in
addition to, and not in lieu, of any other warranties made in connection with the Agreement.

        5.       Power and Authority. Assignor and Assignee each represents and wairnnts to the
other that it is fully empowered and authorized to execute and deliver this Assignment, and the
individual signing this Assignment on behalf of Assignor and Assignee (as applicable) represents
and warrants to Assignee and Assignor (as applicable) that it is fully empowered and authorized
to do so.

       6.      Binding Effect. This Assignment shall inure to the benefit of and shall be binding
upon the parties to this Assignment and their respective successors and assigns.

        7.    Counterparts. This Assignment may be executed in counterparts, each of which
shall be deemed an original, but all of which shall constitute one and the same instrument.

        8.      Attorneys' Fees. The prevailing party in any litigation or arbitration or other
proceeding arising out of this Assignment shall be entitled to the recovery of their reasonable
attorneys' fees, expert witness fees, litigation- or arbitration-related expenses, and court costs in
such litigation or arbitration or other proceeding from the other party.

        9.    Governing Law. This Assignment shall be governed by, and construed and
enforced in accordance with, the laws of the state of Utah (without regard to conflicts of law
principles).

       DATED as of the Effective Date.

                                              ASSIGNOR:

                                              COTTONWOOD HP, LLC, a California limited
                                              liability company


                                              By:
                                                  - - - - - - - - -- - -- - - - - -


                                              ASSIGNEE:

                                              COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS COMMUNITY
ATTEST:                                       DEVELOPMENT AND RENEWAL AGENCY


By: - - - - - - - - - - - - -                 By:
                                                    - - - - -- - - - - - - - -- - -
    Tiffany Janzen, Secretary                       Jared Gerber, CEO
                           Cottonwood Heights
                           Ctry bnuym 1/,e rl111)YJJJJ




          CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING



                         Attachment 1
                      Resolution 2025-68
By this resolution, the council will declare surplus and designate
the method of disposition of a 1998 International Command Post
                    vehicle owned by the city.
Meeting Requested:           Business Meeting ~   Work Session ~    Other □
Public Hearing Needed?       Yes ~ No □ Undetermined D
                             Denied D Approved ~9;".')}9ued □
CM Approval or Denial
                             CM Signature: ~ ~


CITY COUNCIL CONSIDERATION
Subject: Declaration of Surplus Vehicle

Recommendation:
The Police Department/Emergency Management Unit respectfully requests that the City Council declare the
following vehicle as surplus property:
   •   Vehicle: 1998 International Command Post
   •   VIN: 1HTSCABL9WH541607

Scott Juirges recommends this vehicle be JiSJted for Surplus a»d disposed of utilizing KSL.com classifieds and a
minimum value of $4,000.
Background:
The Police Department has determined that the current Command Post vehicle has outlived its usefulness.
Maintenance and repair costs have become excessive, and the unit no longer meets the department's operational
needs.

Future Vision:
The department proposes to sell the surplus vehicle and apply the proceeds, combined with other capital funds,
toward the purchase of a modem command trailer. The envisioned trailer would:

   •   Require minimal maintenance,
   •   Be towable by existing police vehicles, and

   •   Allow for faster deployment with updated, state-of-the-art components.

Requested Action:
Approve the declaration of the 1998 International Command Post as surplus property and authorize its removal
from the City's active fleet inventory, with sale proceeds designated toward the acquisition of a modem
command trailer.
                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                   RESOLUTION NO. 2025-68

                A RESOLUTION DECLARING CERTAIN PROPERTY SURPLUS

       WHEREAS, §2.150.060 of the COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE (the "Code") establishes the
procedures for disposal by the city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City") of its surplus property; and

        WHEREAS, the City' s finance director previously has determined the surplus nature of
ce1tain City prope1ty in accordance with Code §2.150.060(B) and has prepared and presented to
the City's city council (the "Council") listings (collectively, the "List") of such prope1ty (the
"Property") as required by Code §2.150.060(C), a copy of which is attached hereto as Addendum
"A"; and

       WHEREAS, the Council met on 7 October 2025 to consider, among other things, (a)
reviewing the List; (b) declaiing the Property surplus; (c) establishing a minimum bid for each
item of the Prope1ty that is of greater than nominal value; and (d) approving the method of
determining the highest and best economic return to the City of all items of the Prope1ty whose
reasonable value exceeds $5,000; and

        WHEREAS, after reviewing the List and cai·eful consideration, the Council has
detennined that it is in the best interests of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City
to (a) declare the Property on the List smplus; (b) establish a minimum bid for each item of the
Prope1ty that is of greater than nominal value; and (c) approve the method of determining the
highest and best economic return to the City of all items of the Prope1ty whose reasonable value
exceeds $5,000;

       NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Cottonwood Heights city council as
follows:

        1.    The Prope1ty on the List is hereby declared to be smplus and no longer needed by
the City; and

        2.     All Prope1ty on the List is hereby declared to be of nominal value except any items
of the Property which are identified on the attached List as having greater than nominal value; and

        3.     The minimum bid for any items of the Prope1ty of greater than nominal value shall
be as specified on the attached List; and

       4.      The methods of determining the highest and best economic retm11 to the City of all
items of the Prope1ty whose reasonable value is specified on the List as exceeding $5,000 shall be
as shown on the attached List, which methods are hereby approved by the Council.

        This Resolution, assigned no. 2025-68, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

        PASSED AND APPROVED effective 7 October 2025.
ATTEST:                                      COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL




By: - -     - -   - -- - - -- -              By: - -- - - - - - --            - - - --    -
   Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                      Michael T. Weichers, Mayor


                                             VOTING:

                                             Michael T. Weichers          Yea _   Nay _
                                             Matt Holton                  Yea _   Nay _
                                             Suzanne Hyland               Yea _   Nay _
                                             Shawn E. Newell              Yea _   Nay _
                                             Ellen BitTell                Yea _   Nay _

          DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 7th day of October 2025.

          RECORDED this _ day of October 2025.




                                                 2
                                   Addendum "A"
          Surplus Item             Nominal       Minimum Bid   Method of Valuation
                                    Value?

1998 International Command Post,     No          $
VIN 1HTSCABL9WH541607




                                             3
