Meeting Requested:       Business Meeting □   Work Session 1:81   Other D
Public Hearing Needed?   Yes □ No IZl Undetermined □
                         Denied D Approved 1:81 Con inued D
CM Approval or Denial
                         CM Signature: _ _/Y'_Lj__



Appendix I - Agendas for October 21, 2025, Joint Planning Commission/City Council Work
Session, CDRA and Business Meeting

Appendix 2 - Meeting Minutes for City Council Meetings on 10/07/2025

Appendix 3 - Staff Report/ General Plan Update Jim Spung

Appendix 4 - Staff Report/ Action Items Shane Topham


CDRA BUSINESS MEETING
Attachment 1 - Resolution 2025-06

CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
Attachment 1 - Proclamation 2025-03
Attachment 2 - Ordinance 439
Attachment 3 - Resolution 2025-69
                      ottonwood Heights
                     Cuy IHru•a11 1hr r,myom




                    Appendix 1

                  October 21, 2025

Joint Planning Commission/City Council Work Session,
         CORA and Business Meeting Agendas
                   NOTICE OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
               JOINT PLANNING COMMISSION/CITY COUNCIL
                        WORK SESSION AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights City Council will hold a Work Session at
approximately 4:00 p.m., or soon thereafter, on Tuesday, October 21, 2025, in the Cottonwood
Heights City Council Work Room located at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood Heights,
Utah. Part of the Work Session will be conducted jointly with the city's Planning Commission
as shown below. The public may remotely view the open portions of the meeting through live
broadcast by connecting to https://www.youtube.com/(@.CottonwoodHeights/streams, the city's
YouTube channel.

4:00 p.m.     I.     WELCOME - Mayor Mike Weichers

              2.     CITY COUNCIL REVIEW OF BUSINESS MEETING
                     AGENDA
                     Mayor Mike Weichers (J 0-1 5 min.)

              3.     STAFF REPORT TO CITY COUNCIL AND PLANNING
                     COMMISSION
                     (Staff will provide information lo the city council and the planning commission,
                     respond to questions and facilitate discussion concerning this agenda item).

                   a. General Plan Presentation and Discussion with City Council and Planning
                      Commission.
                       Community and Economic Development Director Jim Spung (J 20 min.)
                   b. Excuse Planning Commission.


              4.     REVIEW OF CALENDARS AND UPCOMING EVENTS*
                     a. Friday, October 24th from 5:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. at CWH Rec Center-
                        Monster Mash
                     b. November 17th through January 5th - Winter Lobby Art Display
                     c. Monday, December 1st from 5:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. at City Hall - Light
                        the Heights
                     d. Saturday, December 6th from 7:30 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. at Butler Middle -
                        Christmas Concert with Eclipse 6

                    *For more information, please visit CH.UTAH.GOV and click Communitv
                     Calendar
5.   POSSIBLE   CLOSED    MEETING   TO   DISCUSS
     LITIGATION; REAL PROPERTY PURCHASE OR
     LEASE; THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
     COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH
     OF AN INDIVIDUAL; AND/OR ANOTHER PERMITTED
     PURPOSE UNDER UCA 52-2-205

6.   ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION
               NOTICE OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND
              RENEWAL AGENCY BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights Community Development and Renewal
Agency will hold a Business Meeting beginning at or about 6:45 p.m. on Tuesday, October 7,
2025, in the Cottonwood Heights City Council Chambers located at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard,
Cottonwood Heights, Utah. The public may remotely view the open portions of the meeting
through     live   broadcast   by    connecting  to     the   city's   YouTube      channel:
https://www.youtube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/stream s.

6:00 p.m.       1.0     WELCOME - Chair Mike Weichers

                2.0     Consideration of Resolution 2025-06 Approving and Ratifying an
                        "Agreement to Lease" for Realty within the Town Center at 2300 East Fort
                        Union Community Reinvestment Project Area.
                        (By this resolution the board will approve and ratify the agency's enhy info an
                        agreement lo lease concerning the agency's approximately 11. 5 acres of realty
                        (currently owned or under contract to purchase) within the agency's Town Center
                        at 2300 East For/ Union community reinvestment project area.)

                3.0     APPROVAL OF MINUTES.
                        The minutes of this meeting will be approved through the following process: The
                        Agency's secretary promptly will circulate a draft copy ofthe minutes to the Board
                        members, who then will have three business days to provide any proposed
                        corrections to the secreta,y. The secretary will then circulate a revised draft of the
                        minutes to the Board members, and the same review process will continue until
                        such lime as no corrections to the draft minutes are received within the three
                        business days review period, whereupon that draft of the minutes will be deemed
                        approved and will become the final minutes of the meeting.

                4.0     ADJOURN

On October 16th, 2025, a copy ofthe foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the front foyer of
the Cottonwood Heights City Offices, Cottonwood Heights, Utah. A copy of this notice was sent lo the Salt
Lake Tribune and Deseret News, newspapers ofgeneral circulation in the city, by the Office of the City
Recorder. The agenda was also posted on the City's website atwww.ch.utah.gov and the Utah Public Notice
website at http://pm11.11tah.gov.

DATED this 16th day of October 2025                                Tiffany Janzen, Agency Secretary

The city building for this meeting is accessible. In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act,
people with disabilities may make requests for reasonable accommodation or assistance by notifying the
City Recorder at 801-944-7021 or recorder(aJch.11tah.go11, at least two business days before the meeting,
or by calling Relay Utah at 711.
                                          Cottonwood Heights
                                          City between the cnnyom


            NOTICE OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
                      BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights City Council will hold a Business Meeting
beginning at approximately 7:00 p.m., or soon thereafter, on Tuesday, October 21, 2025, in the
Cottonwood Heights City Council Chambers located at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood
Heights, Utah. The public may remotely view the open portions of the meeting through live
broadcast by connecting to https://www.voutube.com/(a),CottonwoodHeights/streams, the
city's YouTube channel.
Persons physically attending the meeting in the City Council Chambers may make verbal comments
to the City Cotmcil when invited to do so, after completing a speaker comment card. Citizen
comments may also be submitted in writing to the city recorder at citvrecorder@ch.utah.gov by
noon, on the meeting date. In the interest of time and those attending the meeting live, however,
submitted written comments will be entered into the record and distributed to the City Council,
but will not be read at the public meeting.
Civility and decorum should be applied in all discussions and debates. Difficult questions,
tough challenges to a point of view, and criticism of ideas and information are legitimate elements
of a free democracy in action. Public officials and the public are encouraged to refrain from making
belligerent, personal, impertinent, slanderous, threatening, abusive, or disparaging comments.

7:00 p.m.      1.0     WELCOME - Mayor Mike Weichers

               2.0     PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE

               3.0     PROCLAMATIONS
               3.1     Consideration of Proclamation 2025-03 Proclaiming Utah PTA Centennial
                       Celebration Month

               4.0     CITY COUNCIL COMMITTEE REPORTS
               4.1     Committee Reports by Councilmember Matt Holton (3 min.)
               4.2     Committee Reports by Councilmember Suzanne Hyland (3 min.)
               4.3     Committee Reports by Catmcilmember Shawn Newell (3 min.)
               4.4     Committee Reports by Councilmember Ellen Birrell (3 min.)
               4.5     Committee Reports by Mayor Mike Weichers (3 min.)

               5.0    CITIZEN COMMENTS
                      During each regular city council meeting (specifically excluding work sessions),
                      there will be a period not to exceed sixty minutes/or citizen comment. " (Cottonwood
                      Heights Code ofOrdinances 2.30.160 (BJ) Persons physically attending the meeting
                      in the City Council Chambers may make verbal comments to the City Council when
                      invited to do so by the meeting chair. Persons attending the meeting remotely may
                      not make verbal comments to the City Council during the meeting. Persons attending
                         the meeting remotely, or who do not affend the meeting eifherphysically or remotely,
                         are invited to submit wriffen comments lo the City Recorder before Noon. on the
                         meeting date. Written comments that are timely submitted will be admitted into the
                         record of the meehng and distributed to the City Council but will not be read at the
                         public meeting.

                 6.0       LANDSCAPE AWARDS
                 6.1       Community and Economic Development Landscape Awards - Community
                           and Economic Development Director Jim Spung

                 7.0      REPORTS
                 7 .1     CHPD Report - Police Chief Robby Russo
                 7.2      Finance Report - Finance Director Scott Jurges

                 8.0       ACTION ITEMS
                 8.1       Consideration of Ordinance 439 Amending Title 19 of the City's Code of
                           Ordinances (October 2025 Code Maintenance).
                           (This ordinance will enact several amendments to Title 19 of the city's code of
                           ordinances concerning catering se111ice businesses in the O-R-D zone and open-
                           air accesso,y structures, as recommended by the city 's planning commission).
                 8.2       Consideration of Resolution 2025-69 Approving a Consulting Agreement
                           with GBS Benefits, Inc.
                           (By this resolution the council will approve the city's ent,y into an agreement
                           whereunder GBS Benefits, Inc. will pe,jorm an independent wage
                           study/compensation survey for up to ten city sta.ffpositions as selected by the city).

                 9.0       CONSENT CALENDAR
                 9.1       Approval of the minutes for the City Council Work Session and Business
                           Meetings of October 7, 2025.

                  10.0              ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING

                                           PUBLIC COMMENT PROCEDURE
     During each City Council business meeting (specifically excluding work sessions), there will be a period 1
     minutes for citizen comment. (Code of Ordinances 2.30.160 (B)). Any person wishing to comment on any it
     on the agenda for public comment may address the City Council during the Public Comment period. AJ.1y p
     comment during the Public Comment period shall request recognition by the Mayor and upon recogniti
     microphone and state their name, state if they are a resident of Cottonwood Heights and either provide thei
     Council district; and then address the City Council. Any person wishing to comment shall limit their comment
     three (3) minutes unless more or less tU11e is ~pecified by the Mayor. Citizen groups who are present will be a
     spokesperson, who shall limit their col11lllents to no more than five (5) minutes w1less more or less tin1e is specifi
     All comments shall be directed to the City Council. No person addressing the City Council during the commer
     allowed to comment more than once during that comment period. Speakers should not expect any debate or
     Mayor, City Council or City Staff du1ing the meeting.
     The City Council may choose to llllit the amount of time allotted to public comment on a specific issue. In such
     cases, special procedures for determining who will be allowed to speak and the order of such speakers will be
     dete1mined by the Council. In the interest of time and those attending the meeting live, submitted written
     comments will be entered into the record, distributed to the City Council but not read at the public meeting.



On Thursday, October 16, 2025, a copy ofthejoregoing notices was posted in conspicuous view in 1hefi-o,1tjoyer of
the Cotto11wood Heights City Offices, Cortonwood Heights, Utah. A copy ofthis notice was sent to the Salt Lake Tribune
and Deseret News, newspapers a/general circulation in the city, by the Office of the City Recorder. The agendas were
also posted on the City's website at www.cl1.11fah.gov and the Utah Public Notice website at hllp:l'p11111.uroh. gov.

DATED this 16111 day of October 2025                                      Tiffany Janzen, City Recorder

The city building .for this meeting is accessible. In co111p/ia11ce with the Americans with Disabilities Act, people with
disabilities may make requests.for reasonable accommodation or assistance by not[fying the City Recorder at 801 -944-
702 1 or recurder(fj ch.utah. go1•, at least two business days be.fore the meeting, or by calling Relay Utah at 711.
             Cottonwood Heights
             C,ry b<11,Ym 1hr r,111)'0111




            Appendix 2

      MEETING MINUTES
City Council Meetings for 10/07/2025
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION
HELD TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2025, AT 4:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
CITY COUNCIL WORK ROOM LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD,
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Members Present:         Mayor Mike Weichers, Council Member Matt Holton, Council Member
                         Ellen Birrell, Council Member Suzanne Hyland, Council Member Shawn
                         Newell

Staff Present:           City Manager, Jared Gerber; City Attorney, Shane Topham; Police Chief,
                         Robby Russo; Finance Director, Scott Jurges; Records, Culture, and Human
                         Resources Director, Barbara Higgins; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen;
                         Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; IT Manager,
                         Matt Ervin; Public Works Director and City Engineer, Matt Shipp; Unified
                         Fire Authority, Riley Pilgrim

1.0       WELCOME - Mayor Mike Weichers.

Mayor Weichers called the meeting to order at 4:00 PM.

2.0       REVIEW OF BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA - Mayor Mike Weichers.

Mayor Weichers reviewed the Meeting Agenda and stated that the Pledge of Allegiance would be
led by Council Member Newell, followed by the Citizen Comment Period and the United Fire
Authority ("UFA") Quarterly Report.

There would be one Action Item, Consideration of Resolution 2025-68 Declaring Certain Property
Surplus. Police Chief, Robby Russo, reported that the City purchased a truck several years ago
that was outfitted as an emergency management vehicle. However, the truck is used infrequently,
and repair costs have been excessive. They intend to sell the vehicle and purchase an emergency
management trailer. It will have lower maintenance costs, updated equipment, and a restroom.

The final agenda item was approval of the Consent Calendar.

3.0       STAFF REPORTS

          3.1    Butlerville Days Report - Culture Manager Ann Eatchel.

Culture Manager, Ann Eatchel, reported on the 2025 Butlerville Days.

      •   Expenses: $211,000
             o Event activities: $130,000
             o Salaries: $81,000 (all departments, including Police and Public Works)
      •   Revenue: $81,074
             o Sponsorships: $22,725


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for October 7, 2025      Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      1
            o  Vendor fees: $15,880
           o Carnival: $42,469
   •    Net Culture Department expenses: $48,926
   •    Net including salaries: $129,926

In response to a question raised by Mayor Weichers, Ms. Eatchel reported that carnival revenue
increases yearly and was approximately $38,000 in 2024. Council Member Hyland noted that in
2024, the event cost was $25,000, excluding departmental salaries.

Ms. Eatchel reported that the committee met to discuss cost-cutting measures. One option would
be to move the parade from 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM. Instead of starting at 6:00 AM or 7:00 AM,
employees could begin work at 2:00 p.m. or 3:00 p.m., which would decrease salary costs by
$25,000 to $30,000.

The committee also suggested skipping the parade, which would save $50,000 to $60,000 in 2026.
The City also would not participate in other parades, so it would not need to maintain a float. In
response to a question from Council Member Birrell, Ms. Eatchel clarified that floats last for two
years and historically cost $12,000 the first year and $6,000 the second year, plus a storage fee.
Cottonwood Heights usually participates in 10 parades and some cities require three to five City
employees to work the float. She noted that there was now only one company making floats, so
the float cost would increase in 2026. If the parade was held in 2026 but the City did not have a
float, that would save approximately $12,000, as well as employee salary costs to attend other
parades and any cost savings from moving it to the afternoon.

Council Member Hyland received feedback indicating that the parade was held too early. The
carnival was not open, so residents had to go home and return at another time. A 5:00 PM start
time would alleviate that issue, but it would be very hot in the afternoon. Ms. Eatchel agreed but
noted that the cost savings and ability for attendees to also attend the carnival may make it
worthwhile.

Council Member Hyland remarked that the drone and fireworks shows cost approximately $15,000
each. A suggestion was made that the drone show be replaced with a movie in the park. Council
Member Birrell stated that the drone show was approved at $6,000. Council Member Holton stated
that that was a special price because staff introduced them to other cities and sponsorship also
covered a portion of the cost.

Ms. Eatchel reported that the Butlerville Days Committee did not want to take away from what
they had built. They are very diligent in ensuring that the event does not exceed its budget. This
year, the committee considered the costs and benefits of the rock wall versus face painting. They
decided on the rock wall because they determined that more people would use it. The committee
would prefer to cancel the parade and float. Some people will complain if the drone show is
canceled and others will complain if the fireworks are removed.

Council Member Birrell believes it should be one or the other, not both. Her constituents are more
interested in the drone show and she was also in favor of canceling the fireworks. Ms. Eatchel


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for October 7, 2025      Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      2
clarified that the committee agreed that if one is removed, it should be the drone show. Council
Member Birrell suggested that a FlashVote poll be conducted to determine which residents would
prefer.

Ms. Eatchel stated that most committee members have served for a long time, and she valued their
opinions. They supported canceling the parade for one to two years. If it continues, they support
moving it to the afternoon. They also proposed that the event be moved forward by one week to
July 16, 17, and 18. That was not possible in previous years because the musical was held on that
weekend, but the Cottonwood Heights Arts Council decided to hold an arts festival in June rather
than a July musical.

Benefits of moving the event include:

    •   Employee impact: Employees would be able to take the July 24 holiday off, and the City
        would not have to pay holiday pay in addition to overtime pay.
    •   The Recreation Center has requested that the event be moved for many years to provide
        additional time for the grass to recover before Little League.
    •   The community would no longer be inclined to believe that it is a Pioneer Day event.
    •   The event has grown in size, partially because there are no other events on July 24. If it
        were moved to the third week in July, it would coincide with Draper Days and Spanish
        Fork's Steel Days.

In response to a question raised by Mayor Weichers, Ms. Eatchel confirmed that the carnival
company was available on the proposed dates.

Council Member Holton asked how reliant the City is on attendance and ticket sales and if a drop
in attendance would affect revenues. Ms. Eatchel stated that if the City's goal was to maximize
revenue, the event should be held on the weekend of July 24. Revenues could be affected if the
event was moved because people could choose to attend other events, but that was difficult to
determine without actually moving the event and seeing the numbers. However, smaller
attendance could ease security concerns and require fewer police officers.

Mayor Weichers asked if the committee considered holding a two-day event on Friday and
Saturday instead of the traditional three-day event. Ms. Eatchel stated that the City has one year
remaining on the three-day contract with the carnival company. Thursday was originally added to
Butlerville Days so they could have a family night with a lower entry fee. Because the carnival
would need to be set up by Thursday anyway, those expenses would not change, but the family
night revenue would be lost.

In response to a question from Council Member Birrell, Ms. Eatchel stated that she would need to
speak with the carnival company to determine their actual per-night expenses and revenues.
However, the only potential savings to the City would be in employee salaries. City Manager,
Jared Gerber, noted that the Thursday event is not as heavily staffed as the other days.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for October 7, 2025      Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      3
Ms. Eatchel indicated that the Draper Days parade is held at 9:00 AM. If Butlerville Days was
moved but the parade time was not changed, she believed the parade would reduce in size by about
50% because some cities would choose to participate in the Draper parade. If Cottonwood Heights
has a parade but no float, other cities may simply choose not to come. It was noted that the Spanish
Fork event does not really compete with Butlerville Days, and Draper Days does not have a
carnival.

Council Member Hyland was in support of moving the event. Mayor Weichers agreed.

Council Member Newell noted that there would be a significant cost savings in canceling the
parade. Mayor Weichers stated that it was held at 11:00 AM when he was first elected and
residents complained about the heat at that time. If it was moved to 5:00 PM, heat would become
an issue again. He agreed that the Council should consider taking one year off from the parade.
Council Member Newell stated that if it was not held in 2026, they could then gauge the public's
reaction prior to making a decision about the following year. He believed it was hard to justify
the expense.

Council Member Newell asked about expenses associated with the parade. Ms. Eatchel stated that
the parade expenses include approximately $20,000 for the float, barricades, etc., as well as
$25,000 to $35,000 for Police salaries and $5,000 to $8,000 for Public Works salaries.

Council Member Newell asked if another event would replace the parade. Ms. Eatchel would need
to discuss the matter with the committee, but that would depend on whether the Council preferred
that she redirect the parade monies or reduce the budget. One option would be to hold the parade
but not have a float, which would reduce the event cost from approximately $20,000 to $7,000.
She noted that West Valley has a SK instead of a parade. Council Member Hyland indicated that
without the parade expense, they could bring back free face painting and balloons. Council
Member Newell stated that he would rather the funds be used to enhance Butlerville Days.

In response to a question from Mayor Weichers, Ms. Eatchel stated that the parade was held at
4:00 PM when she began working with the City in 2011. It was moved to 3:00 PM, then
11 :00 AM, then 9:00 AM. There was high attendance for the afternoon parades, but it was very
hot.

Council Member Holton wanted to hear from the committee. Many new residents of Cottonwood
Heights have told him that they did not feel like part of something until they attended Butlerville
Days. It is an impactful event that connects neighbors, and it is important to preserve that. If the
committee believed that something else would be a better use of funds than the parade and would
support that mission, he would support them.

Council Member Hyland stated that the City Council thought the event cost $25,000, but it actually
cost $130,000. If they did not want to change the event, they needed to understand the cost
structure.

The float was discussed. It was noted that the Council Members could walk in the parade or ride
in golf carts, cars, or a trailer. Council Member Birrell stated that other cities not participating

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for October 7, 2025       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      4
could have an impact, but the City needed to try alternatives to lower the event cost. Mayor
Weichers indicated that he did not believe other cities would take offense if Cottonwood Heights
took the year off from having a float.

Council Member Hyland asked about modifying the parade route to begin at Butler Elementary.
Ms. Eatchel stated that it used to begin there, but it was moved because that route blocks in more
homes and fully blocks the Recreation Center. Children and the elderly also had difficulty with
the hill in front of the Recreation Center. In response to a question raised by Council Member
Birrell, Ms. Eatchel indicated that the parade route would not be long enough if it ended south of
the Recreation Center. The committee would discuss routes as well as potential remedies for the
heat.

Council Member Holton asked for an estimate on the reduction in entries if the City did not have
a float and, therefore, other cities did not participate. He likes the tradition of other cities
participating in the parade. Ms. Eatchel stated that more wards with floats may participate on the
earlier date. She could also dedicate funds to bringing in more entertainment such as bands and
jugglers. There is no charge to participate, and in 2025, they had over 70 entries. They prefer to
limit it to one hour, and Cottonwood Heights residents take priority. Council Member Holton
appreciated the time limit.

Council Member Birrell appreciated the Brighton High School Mountain Biking team last year.
She suggested that the City hold a contest to encourage all schools to enter the parade.

Council Member Holton asked if more sponsors were needed. Ms. Eatchel stated that there is
room to grow. People now know about Butlerville Days and she believed it was time to secure
additional funding. Council Member Holton indicated that he had ideas about the title sponsorship
that would allow them to ask for a higher donation.

Mayor Weichers asked that Ms. Eatchel speak with the committee and return with a
recommendation on the drone and fireworks shows. Ms. Eatchel reported that they would meet
again in January to begin planning next year' s event.

The City Council decided that Butlerville Days would be moved to July 16, 17, and 18, 2026. The
parade would be moved to 5:00 PM, and Cottonwood Heights will not have a float in 2026.

        3.2     General Plan Discussion - Community and Economic Development Director,
                Jim Spung.

Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung, reported that the General Plan
update process began in 2021. Due to the four-year delay, Staff was treating the current version
as a first draft. The purpose of the discussion was to ensure that the City Council, Planning
Commission, and Staff were in agreement on the vision that is articulated in the General Plan,
identify any areas that needed to be modified, and then provide general feedback to the consultants
so they could further refine the draft and prepare it for the adoption process.



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for October 7, 2025      Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      5
Mr. Spung encouraged any Council Members who had not done so already to access and comment
on the shared document. Council Member Hyland indicated that the commenting process was
very easy. Mr. Spung stated that the goal was to capture everyone's comments, and then Staff
would identify any conflicts or topics for further discussion at the joint City Council and Planning
Commission meeting on October 21, 2025.

The Chapter 1 Community Goals were reviewed. Mr. Spung indicated that the goals were
identified through public outreach efforts in summer 2021 that included a survey, an interactive
mapping tool, a community idea board, and various committee meetings. In response to a question
from Council Member Holton, he indicated that the consultant was asked to forward the raw data
from those efforts.

Council Member Birrell stated that COVID and other challenges had occurred since the data was
collected, including blight and other problems caused by living affordability issues. In response
to a question from Council Member Holton, she stated that the purpose of the General Plan is to
identify community needs and what the City needs to do short-term and long-term to address them,
and this element was missing from it. It was a matter of public safety. She also believed there
should be a greater focus on interlocal cooperation and the challenges related to maintaining
infrastructure into the future.

Council Member Hyland agreed with Council Member Birrell and indicated that Planning
Commissioner Mike Smith made great comments regarding beautification and blight. She
reviewed the 2005 General Plan, which had specific goals about beautification that should be
added to the updated document.

Mayor Weichers stated that the current draft was boilerplate, and the General Plan should be
unique to Cottonwood Heights. Mr. Spung agreed and noted that he commented to that effect in
several sections of the draft document. The General Plan is important because it provides direction
to the Community and Economic Development Department for the next IO to 20 years regarding
the types of initiatives that should be started, where their focus should be, and how Staff time and
resources should be allocated to implement the City's vision. The language must be specific
enough to provide that direction. It does not need to provide a roadmap for achieving the vision,
but it does need to ensure that they understand it.

Council Member Hyland met with Ronna Cohen, who indicated that she reviewed general plans
from multiple other cities and the language in those plans was all boilerplate. Ms. Cohen had also
compiled a 13-page document with comments.

Council Member Hyland believed that the initial sentence of the goal was very weak, especially
in comparison to the 2005 General Plan, which reads: "Cottonwood Heights is a community that
highly values its history of well-maintained residential communities. The preservation of quality
of life is of utmost importance to residents and business owners. Cottonwood Heights views itself
as a City where residents, tourists, businesses, and government come together to create an
attractive, safe, and well-maintained community where people are proud to live, learn, work, and
recreate." Council Member Holton agreed and expressed concern that thorough research was not
conducted when the draft document was created. If they had reviewed the previous General Plan,

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for October 7, 2025       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      6
they would have recognized its specificity and modeled that going forward. Council Member
Hyland noted that even the statistics included in the draft were inaccurate.

Mr. Spung stated that each chapter includes specific goals, but Chapter 1 captures the City's vision
for the community as a whole. Those collective goals then inform the goals and strategies in
subsequent chapters. For example, Goal 1 is Preserve and Enhance Existing Neighborhoods.
Each chapter should address that specific goal in regard to transportation, economic development,
recreation, etc. Council Member Hyland agreed but noted that seven of the eight Community
Goals related to land use and there were no goals related to economic development.

Council Member Newell referred to the 2005 statement as read by Council Member Hyland and
expressed concern that not all residents are privileged enough to be able to maintain their
properties. The population is aging, properties are very expensive, and he did not believe the
Council should displace itself from those considerations when making such statements. They
needed to be inclusive of all residents and take care when making statements in a General Plan
that everyone is a part of and will read. Council Member Hyland stated that she sees the goal as
aspirational. In his comments, Commissioner Smith suggested that volunteers be organized to
assist those homeowners.

Council Member Newell stated that the City needs to be careful about the language it uses.
Mr. Spung agreed and suggested that the Council Members keep the goals in mind when reading
each chapter and consider how they can be achieved. Goals included in the plan indicate to Staff
that they are important to consider as they introduce initiatives and projects throughout the
community, and they need to ensure that there are not several different interpretations of each goal.

Council Member Hyland suggested that the word "buildings" be removed from the first principle
under Goal 1. The Old Mill structure is unsafe, and she believed removing the word would allow
the Council more flexibility in deciding its fate. Mr. Spung clarified that they did not need to focus
on specific wording during the discussion. The intention was to identify things that are missing,
such as goals specific to economic development, and ensuring that the language is inclusive.

In response to a question from Mayor Weichers, it was reported that the Old Mill and the old
dormitory, the building to the west of Butler Elementary School, were the only two historic
buildings that were protected by City ordinance. Other historical assets may be identified and
preserved at the City Council's direction.

Council Member Birrell commented that neighborhoods that are more than 50 years old can be
designated historic, which would make homeowners eligible for subsidies to maintain their homes.
The principles address new development, but she did not see anything that addressed the wide
variety of financial situations of Cottonwood Heights residents.

Mr. Spung stated that he believed Goal 1 was a core goal that did not need modification. It directs
redevelopment and densification efforts to focus outside of existing neighborhoods. Goal 2:
Enhance Neighborhood Connectivity and Accessibility to Local Amenities was also a solid goal.



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for October 7, 2025         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      7
The first principle under Goal 2 was to Connect neighborhoods with local destinations and
amenities, especially for those walking and bicycling. Planning Staff could interpret that goal to
require any residential development near a non-residential area to be connected with a street, which
is sometimes not a popular decision. He suggested that the wording be changed to exclude vehicles
or indicate that vehicle connections could be explored on a case-by-case basis. Council Member
Hyland agreed and noted that if her neighborhood was connected to a major roadway, it would
destroy its walkability.

Council Member Birrell addressed the second principle, Attract a wider range ofretail, office and
other commercial uses through outreach, education, advertisement and support programs, which
she believed conflicted to expand small commercial nodes. She was in favor of 10-minute walking
sheds, but that was not reflected in the City's land use goals. Council Member Hyland indicated
that it was supported in the land use chapter. Council Member Birrell suggested that the term
"walking shed" be used. Council Member Hyland stated that the Planning Commission suggested
they avoid the use of jargon.

Council Member Holton stated that many residents expressed concerns to him about cut-through
traffic. However, he wanted to ensure that anything the City does to enhance alternative
transportation does not inhibit vehicle movement. Prioritizing vehicle movement can negatively
impact walkers and cyclists and vice versa, and he believed they needed to maintain a balance
between all transportation choices. Mr. Spung indicated that it is driven by the location. Different
solutions and amenities would be appropriate for a more walkable area like Fort Union Boulevard
than the middle of a neighborhood, for example.

Goal 3: Ensure Community and Lifestyle Choice was discussed next. Mr. Spung indicated that
the goal was intended to be more inclusive. Communities had developed in a homogenous way
since World War II, with suburban developments, large apartment complexes, and little in
between. This goal reflects the needs of everyone regardless of their socioeconomic status.

Mayor Weichers stated that the goal felt templated. Mr. Spung indicated that it could be reworded
to be more specific to Cottonwood Heights. If the City wants to embrace this goal, it would also
need to embrace other types of housing, like townhomes.

Council Member Hyland addressed the third principle, Provide opportunities that encourage
residents to stay in place through homeownership assistance and senior housing options. She
indicated that, as written, this would reduce the number of homes available for turnover, which
constrains supply and increases prices. The Council had discussed the need for senior housing at
the Town Center so that seniors could stay in the city, but she did not believe that residents staying
in place was a desired outcome. Council Member Birrell stated that "aging in place" was about
staying in the community, not staying in a large home. Council Member Holton stated that the
goal should be to provide residents with options. Mr. Spung agreed that the principle did not
clearly articulate the City's goal.

Mayor Weichers was not comfortable with the wording of the primary goal. Mr. Spung indicated
that the principles could be used to reword Goal 3. For example, "Provide opportunities for
residents to remain in the community during all phases oflife."

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for October 7, 2025         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      8
Council Member Hyland referred to the second principle of Goal 1: Ensure new housing is
consistent with existing neighborhood character, scale, form and density. She was concerned
that, as written, it indicated that no part of the City would be densified and suggested that
"consistent' be replaced with "in hannony." Mayor Weichers agreed and suggested that the word
"strategically" be added to principle 3: Provide a balanced mix of land uses throughout the City.
Mr. Spung stated that the principles were intended to remove obstacles to those types of
development and suggested that "provide" be replaced with "allowing." The principle would then
read, "Allow for a balanced mix ofland uses strategically throughout the City." Staff could modify
the language to make it more action-oriented.

Mr. Spung indicated that Goal 4: Transform Major Corridors should be reworded and asked for
the Council 's direction on the goal. Mayor Weichers stated that the goal should be more specific.
Council Member Hyland asked if the goal needed to be included at all because Goal 5 states the
City's intent more clearly. If they kept the goal, it needed to expressly indicate that traffic should
be kept out of neighborhoods.

The first principle, Minimize local traffic congestion and parking demand by developing a robust
multimodal transportation system that transforms auto-oriented corridors into multimodal streets,
had received many comments in the review document. Mr. Spung suggested that it be eliminated
because the City cannot control what the Utah Department of Transportation ("UDOT") does. It
could also be reworded to indicate that the City aspires to create a more balanced network where
people have a choice between taking transit, driving, or cycling.

Council Member Birrell stated that multi-modal transportation reduces traffic on major corridors.
Highland Drive, Fort Union Boulevard, State Route 190 and State Route 210 are fast-moving
arterial roads unique to Cottonwood Heights, and she believes the Council should be sensitive to
the safety and noise concerns ofresidents who live near those corridors. Council Member Holton
stated that the City needs to determine how to move people efficiently on major corridors, no
matter which form of transportation they choose.

Mr. Spung noted that the Council Members were speaking about shifting to a more balanced
network that provides people with options. Council Member Holton agreed but indicated that Staff
also needed a directive not to negatively impact one mode of transportation in favor of another.
Mr. Spung stated that the goal could be reworded to capture the Council's statements as well as
the underlying principles of the goal. Goal 4 will be a byproduct of implementing other goals of
the General Plan. If the City's overall vision is achieved, it will be more multimodal and walkable
because the other goals speak to that environment.

Council Member Birrell stated that many of the City's streets are easy to use as cut-throughs. For
example, if traffic calming measures were installed on Camino Way, people would not use it as a
cut-through because it would lengthen their drive. Council Member Newell stated that speed
bumps were installed on a street in his neighborhood but traffic did not slow down. He believed
they needed to consider that it is hard to police human behavior and should focus on methods that
have been proven to work in the City. Council Member Holton stated that he likes the City's
current approach of testing methods first. He stressed the importance of communicating actions

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for October 7, 2025         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      9
taken by the City Council to the public and ensuring that monies spent by the City are put to an
absolutely good use that will impact an outcome.

Mr. Spung stated that Goal 5: Create Vibrant, Walkable Activity Centers, Including a Town Center
had largely been achieved or was in process and the goal should be more forward-focused. The
Town Center was in process, so the goal should address how the General Plan will enhance the
Town Center moving forward.

Regarding Goal 6: Continue to Build a Great and Complementary Citywide and Wasatch Canyons
Recreation Network, Mr. Spung noted that one of Cottonwood Heights' primary assets is its
unparalleled access to recreation. Council Member Hyland stated that the General Plan needed to
include the City's visitor economy. Cottonwood Heights is 20 minutes from downtown Salt Lake
City, an international airport, and four world-class ski resorts, and only an hour from eight resorts.
Mayor Weichers agreed that Goal 6 is clearly stated.

Council Member Birrell expressed concern that principle 3, Implement parldng management
strategies to improve access to existing and fi1ture parks, recreation facilities, open spaces and
trails, implied that more parking lots were desirable. Mayor Weichers noted that the statement
was broad and did not specify parking lots. Mr. Spung stated that he did not know what the goal
meant and had requested more clarity on its origin. He agreed that more parking lots were not in
the City' s best interests and the goal would be better stated by indicating that the City should find
ways for people to access recreation other than driving and parking. Council Member Birrell stated
that it would be an economic driver for the new Town Center to allow people to park there and
take a shuttle to recreation facilities .

Goal 7: Protect and Enhance the Local and Regional Natural Environment was focused on
sustainability and being a good steward of the area. The list of principles was a result of previous
outreach efforts, and Mr. Spung encouraged the Council Members to review them to ensure that
they were still in line with their vision for the community's sustainability initiatives.

Goal 8: Enhance Cottonwood Heights' Place in the Larger Region, focused on community assets
that can be leveraged to enhance the City's place. He agreed with Council Member Hyland that
the City could do a much better job of enhancing tourism and recreation. Council Member Hyland
asked Mr. Spung to direct Landmark Design to review the 2005 General Plan for specific
information. All the principles provided under this goal were boilerplate and needed to be specific
to Cottonwood Heights. Council Member Birrell read a statement and indicated that the goal
should emphasize collaboration with neighboring municipalities and other entities on
infrastructure projects.

Mayor Weichers asked Mr. Spung to discuss the goals for the joint City Council/Planning
Commission meeting on October 21, 2025. Mr. Spung stated that they hoped to have everyone's
comments on the General Plan prior to the meeting. Staff would review those comments and
identify any areas that require further discussion. The goal of the meeting was to reach a resolution
on any parts of the plan on which there was disagreement on as well as to discuss specific topics
the Council felt were missing from the document, if any.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for October 7, 2025         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     10
In response to a question from Council Member Hyland, Mr. Spung reported that the Planning
Commission would not meet again prior to the joint meeting. Council Member Hyland noted that
the document needed a lot of work. Council Member Birrell stated that the first joint meeting with
the Planning Commission provided an opportunity for the Council to obtain deeper insight into
what the Commission viewed as the City's most important priorities. Mayor Weichers asked Mr.
Spung to pose the question to Planning Commission Chair Sean Steinman, so the Council could
better understand their expectations for the meeting.

Council Member Hyland urged all Council Members to make time to comment on the draft
document prior to the joint meeting.

        3.3     Flash Vote Survey Discussion- City Manager, Jared Gerber.

Mr. Gerber reviewed the draft questions for the upcoming survey. The first discusses how most
property owners currently pay a total amount per $1,000 in assessed value, and a certain percentage
of that goes to Cottonwood Heights for local services like police, street maintenance, parks, etc.
The other percentage goes to the school district, state, county, and other entities.

The second question asks, "Prior to reading this, which best describes what you knew about
Cottonwood Heights property taxes?" Responses include:

    •   I thought more than 50% went to the City.
    •   I knew that the City got less than 50%, but not the actual percentage.

Council Member Holton suggested that the word "parks" be removed from the first question
because Cottonwood Heights Parks is included on the tax levy, but that money does not go to the
City. Mr. Gerber indicated that it is a grey area because the City does pay them to maintain the
service.

Mayor Weichers stated that the second bullet point on question two needed to be reworded.

The second question was, "Right now, do you think the City of Cottonwood Heights has a great
need, some need, or no real need for additional funds to provide the level of City services that you
as a resident need and want?" Mayor Weichers asked how someone with no knowledge of
municipal government would respond to this question. Council Member Holton agreed. Council
Member Newell agreed and noted that not everyone knows what services the City provides. Mayor
Weichers suggested that the services be listed. They could also ask if the respondent believes the
City should provide other services and if they are willing to pay higher taxes for them.

The third question was, "If the City of Cottonwood Heights were to shift spending priorities, which
of the following, if any, do you think would be the best use of that money?" The first potential
response, "Improve stoplight timing for faster traffic flow," was discussed. It was indicated that
this was a priority of a previous Council and little more could be done in this area. Council
Member Birrell suggested that it be removed and the responses be grouped by subject. She also
objected to the wording of "Increase City speed limit enforcement".


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for October 7, 2025       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     11
Council Member Holton noted that the question on housing affordability specifically asked about
funding priorities and expressed concern about asking residents if they wanted the City
government to subsidize housing. Council Member Hyland stated that the City could not do that
on its $27 million budget.

Council Member Holton approved of the inclusion of code enforcement but believed the language
should be expanded to include property maintenance, off-leash dogs, etc. Council Member Birrell
agreed that it should be more specific.

Council Member Birrell asked if she was the only member of the Council who wanted to retain
the question about affordability, as she believes many residents want the City to subsidize
affordable housing. Council Member Holton stated that everyone agrees on the need for affordable
housing. However, the question asked about spending priorities. He disagreed with the premise
because the City has too many other issues that take priority and was not in favor of including it.
Council Member Newell stated that the City Council needs to do its due diligence with the State
Legislature, because that is where those initiatives could be developed. Mr. Spung suggested that
resources be allocated to complete a study identifying the impediments to affordable housing and
what the City could do to remove them. Council Member Birrell suggested that the question ask
about funding an affordable housing implementation study. Council Member Hyland stated that
she would like to ask about the comprehensive safety action plan, but both items required too much
explanation for the survey. Mayor Weichers suggested that the question ask if the respondent was
in favor of supporting, for example, a $1,000 first-time homebuyer assistance grant.

Council Member Hyland suggested that the survey begin with a list of the services that the City
provides so that respondents understand what is within the City' s control, because many residents
are not aware that Cottonwood Heights does not provide the same municipal services as other
cities. She liked the fourth question about how the respondent would prioritize $100 in spending.
Mr. Gerber stated that responses still needed to be formulated for that question.

Council Member Hyland recommended launching the survey in November when property tax bills
come out. Mr. Gerber indicated that Staff would further refine the questions and responses and
email them to the Council for further review.

        3.4     Fraud Risk Assessment - Finance Director, Scott Jurges.

Finance Director, Scott Jurges, reported that the Utah State Auditor's Office requires the City to
perform yearly fraud risk assessments. The City does not receive full points because it lacks a
formal audit function. However, it is impractical for a city the size of Cottonwood Heights to have
a fonnal function because it does not have enough points of risk to warrant it. Cottonwood Heights
typically earns 375 out of a possible 395 points, which is a very low risk level. Mr. Jurges then
reviewed the risk assessment checklist. He noted that the people who collect cash or check
payments are not different from those who adjust customer accounts. However, the City has
mitigating controls in place. The Council Members did not have any concerns about the risk
assessment.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for October 7, 2025       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     12
4.0     REVIEW OF CALENDAR AND UPCOMING EVENTS.

        4.1     Friday, October 10 - 6:30 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. at City Hall - Special Effects
                Halloween Makeup Workshop (Open to Community Members Ages 14+, cost
                is $20).
        4.2     Wednesday, October 15 - from 1:30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. at City Hall, Senior
                Social.
        4.3     Friday, October 24 - from 5:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. at CWH Rec Center -
                Monster Mash.
        4.4     Friday, October 31 - from 3:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. at City Hall Parking Lot -
                Trunk or Treat.
        4.5     November 17 through January 5- Winter Lobby Art Display.
        4.6     Monday, December 1- 5:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. at City Hall-Light the Heights.
        4.7     Saturday, December 6 - 7:30 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. at Butler Middle School -
                Christmas Concert with Eclipse 6.

5.0     POSSIBLE CLOSED MEETING TO DISCUSS LITIGATION; REAL PROPERTY
        PURCHASE OR LEASE; THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
        COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH OF AN INDIVIDUAL;
        AND/OR ANOTHER PERMITTED PURPOSE UNDER UCA 52-2-205.

There was no Closed Meeting.

6.0     ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION.

MOTION: Council Member Newell moved to ADJOURN the City Council Work Session. The
motion was seconded by Council Member Hyland. The motion passed with the unanimous consent
of the Council.

The Work Session adjourned at 6:00 PM.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for October 7, 2025   Approved: _ _ _ __

                                                     13
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND
RENEWAL AGENCY ("CDRA"} MEETING HELD TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2025, AT
6:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL WORK ROOM
LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD, COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Members Present:        Mayor Mike Weichers, Council Member Ellen Birrell, Council Member
                        Suzanne Hyland, Council Member Shawn Newell

Staff Present:          City Manager, Jared Gerber; Police Chief, Robby Russo; Finance Director,
                        Scott Jurges; Records, Culture, and Human Resources Director, Barbara
                        Higgins; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen; Community and Economic
                        Development Director, Jim Spung; IT Manager, Matt Ervin; Public Works
                        Director and City Engineer, Matt Shipp; Unified Fire Authority, Riley
                        Pilgrim

1.0    WELCOME

Mayor Weichers called the meeting to order at 6:00 PM.

2.0     Consideration of Resolution 2025-05 - Approving and Ratifying a "Real Property
        Purchase Agreement" and Related Documents for Realty within the Town Center at
        2300 East Fort Union Community Reinvestment Project Area. (By this Resolution,
        the Board will Approve and Ratifv the Agency's Entry into a Purchase Agreement and
        related documents in connection with the Agency's proposed Purchase of 1 + acre of
        realty located at the southeast corner of the intersection 0(2300 East and Fort Union
        Boulevard within the City's Town Center at 2300 East Fort Union Community
        Reinvestment Proiect Area.)

City Manager, Jared Gerber, reported that the resolution would authorize the purchase of the
Walgreens parcel, which is 1.09 acres, for $3.5 million. The due diligence period must be
completed by mid-November, after which a 30-day closing window will begin. The seller could
exercise three 30-day extensions if needed. City Attorney, Shane Topham, added that closing
would be between mid-December 2025 and mid-March 2026. All parties had signed the
agreement.

MOTION: Board Member Newell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2025-05 - Approving and
Ratifying a "Real Property Purchase Agreement" and Related Documents for Realty within the
Town Center at 2300 East Fort Union Community Reinvestment Project Area. The motion was
seconded by Board Member Holton. Vote on Motion: Board Member Holton-Yes; Board Member
Hyland-Yes; Board Member Newell-Yes; Board Member Birrell-Yes; Chair Weichers-Yes. The
motion passed unanimously.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for October 7, 2025     Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     14
3.0     POSSIBLE CLOSED MEETING TO DISCUSS LITIGATION; REAL PROPERTY
        PURCHASE OR LEASE; THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
        COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH OF AN INDIVIDUAL;
        AND/OR ANOTHER PERMITTED PURPOSE UNDER UCA 52-2-205.

MOTION: Board Member Holton moved to ADJOURN the CDRA Meeting and move into a
Closed Session to discuss the Purchase of Real Property. The motion was seconded by Board
Member Hyland. The motion passed unanimously.

The CDRA was in closed session from 6:05 PM to 7:00 PM.

4.0     APPROVAL OF MINUTES
The minutes of this meeting will be approved through the following process:
The Agency's Secretary will promptly circulate a draft copy of the minutes to the Board
members, who then will have three business days to provide any proposed corrections to the
Secretary. The Secretary will then circulate a revised draft ofthe minutes to the Board members,
and the same review process will continue until such time as no corrections to the draft minutes
are received within the three-business-day review period, whereupon that draft of the minutes
will be deemed approved and will become the final minutes of the meeting.

5.0     ADJOURN

MOTION: Board Member Hyland moved to ADJOURN. The motion was seconded by Board
Member Holton. Vote on Motion: Board Member Holton-Yes; Board Member Hyland-Yes; Board
Member Newell-Yes; Chair Weichers-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.


The CDRA Meeting adjourned at 7:02 PM.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for October 7, 2025    Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                     15
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
HELD TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2025, AT 7:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD,
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Members Present:        Mayor Mike Weichers, Council Member Ellen Birrell, Council Member
                        Suzanne Hyland, Council Member Shawn Newell

Staff Present:           City Manager, Jared Gerber; Police Chief, Robby Russo; Finance Director,
                         Scott Jurges; Records, Culture, and Human Resources Director, Barbara
                         Higgins; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen; Community and Economic
                         Development Director, Jim Spung; IT Manager, Matt Ervin; Public Works
                         Director and City Engineer, Matt Shipp; Unified Fire Authority, Riley
                         Pilgrim

1.0     WELCOME

Mayor Weichers called the meeting to order at 7:06 PM.

2.0     PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE

Council Member Shawn Newell led the Pledge of Allegiance.

3.0     CITIZEN COMMENTS

Audrey Pines commented that she and other residents met with the City regarding Dover Hill Park,
and a plan was outlined in the Development Agreement signed in January 2024. However, the
City Engineer changed the agreement. Neighbors were fighting and most of them hated the park,
but it cannot be changed because of the agreement that was signed. She asked how he had the
authority to do that. The ballpark grading was changed. Residents were told that the hill would
not be touched, but it was changed overnight. She also asked how the City would implement the
General Plan and protect the old tree growth.

Maggie Mills provided updates on Whitmore Library events for October. Preschool programming
was underway, with weekly reading events on Monday, Tuesday, and Thursday. The library
would be closed on Monday, October 13, 2025, for staff training. The monthly teen origami
project was a pumpkin frame. The nonfiction book club would read Polar Vortex. Babcock
Performing Readers would read spooky stories on Thursday, October 16, 2025, at 7:00 PM. The
"Love Crafts: Weird and Creepy Crafts" crafting class would be held on October 18, 2025, from
2:00 PM to 4:00 PM.

Olivia Snyder stated that she manages the Mount Olympus Senior Center, which is one of 14 senior
centers in Salt Lake County. They offer lunch daily from 11 :30 a.m. to 12:15 p.m., as well as a
variety of exercise and educational programs, including a monthly American Association of
Retired Persons ("AARP") driving class. They also have a virtual senior center that offers at-home

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for October 7, 2025      Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     16
self-guided courses and craft kits. Membership is free for residents aged 60 or older. A donation
is suggested for lunch but not required. They did not currently have a driver, but she would notify
the City once one was hired and transportation to and from the center was available. Anyone
interested in signing up for the monthly email blast should contact her.

Runar Bowman was surprised to hear the discussion about subsidizing home purchases. He
believes it is a terrible idea that perpetuates a victim mentality and is not necessary because there
are already state and federal programs available to low-income home buyers. He suggested that
citizens be educated about the available solutions. Housing is supply and demand, and
Cottonwood Heights was a desirable location with limited supply and increasing demand. They
are building high-rise complexes; people who want their children to live nearby can rent one for
them or purchase a starter home in Tulsa, Oklahoma and move back to Cottonwood Heights in 15
or 20 years. He did not believe that buying a home should be easy.

Randy Long gave his address as 8610 Kings Hills Drive and stated that disasters such as fires,
floods, and tornadoes happen. Many homes in his area do not have secondary exits, so residents
would not be able to get out in the event of a natural disaster. There was a wildfire south of Kings
Hill Drive approximately 50 years ago, and if any of the homes had been there at the time, they
would have been destroyed. Approximately 20 years previously, another wildlife was spotted on
the mountain north of Deaf Smith Canyon, and a tornado in another area of the City destroyed
several homes. Flooding is also a risk. He did not believe homes should be built without at least
two exits.

There were no further comments. The Citizen Comment period was closed.

4.0       LANDSCAPE AWARDS

          4.1   Community and Economic Development Landscape Awards - Community and
                Economic Development Director, Jim Spung.

5.0       REPORTS

          5.1   Unified Fire Authority Quarterly Report - UFA Assistant Chief. Riley Pilgrim.

United Fire Authority ("UFA") Assistant Chief, Riley Pilgrim, presented the Quarter 2 Report for
the period of April 1, 2025, through June 30, 2025.

      •   There were 570 total incidents, 204 or 36% of which were emergent. This reflected an
          increase of 65 calls over the previous quarter.
              o April incidents: 168
              o May incidents: 202
              o June incidents: 200

      •   The most common call types were:
             o Fire


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for October 7, 2025        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     17
                ■  Other: 4
                ■  Vehicle fires: 2
                ■  Vegetation fires: 2
                ■  Structure fire: 1
            o   EMS
                ■  Sick person: 48
                ■  Short fall: 37
                ■  Unconscious: 24
                ■  Seizure: 23
                ■  Stroke: 21
            o   Other calls
                • Public service assistance: 29
                ■  Falls alarm or false call: 15
                ■  Unintentional detector: 14
                ■  Mutual aid from outside agencies: 11
                ■  Detector malfunction: 10

    •   UFA engines responded to over 90% of calls. Midvale responded to 7 .6% of calls.
        Chief Pilgrim reported that the automatic vehicle location ("AVL") system will always pull
        the closest unit, including ones from other municipalities that are passing through or
        attending training in the City.

    •   UFA ambulances responded to approximately 75% of calls, with Midvale and Holladay
        responding to the majority of the remainder. Chief Pilgrim reported that Station 116 is
        seasonal to cover call volume at the ski resorts and respond to a significant volume of calls
        in the canyons each year. During that time, UFA leans heavily on nearby cities such as
        Sandy to assist with calls.

    •   The 50 th percentile response time was 04:58, and the 90th percentile was 07:34, a difference
        of approximately 10 seconds from the first quarter. Dispatch moved to a "silent dispatch"
        model that did not accurately reflect times and resulted in a difference of a few seconds.
        That had since been turned off, so Chief Pilgrim expected the numbers to improve for the
        third quarter.

Chief Pilgrim reminded those present that it was Fire Prevention Week. UFA had posted
information on lithium batteries on its social media pages and website. Lithium batteries pose a
significant fire risk, especially with the influx of e-bikes and scooters that may not have been built
to United States standards. There had been a sizable increase in fires from these devices.

Council Member Birrell asked if UFA had interfaced with Bike Utah about the issue. Chief
Pilgrim stated that he had not personally spoken with them, but he would ask Fire Marshall,
Bradley Larson, to contact them, as UFA is always looking for partnerships. UFA is most
concerned about people storing scooters and e-bikes inside apartments or on balconies. If the
battery explodes, the entire multifamily structure is at risk. Lithium batteries burn very quickly
and very hot.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for October 7, 2025         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     18
Council Member Birrell stated that the new Sandy waste station accepts lithium batteries and asked
if the station was regulated to ensure they are properly sorted and disposed of. Chief Pilgrim
confirmed that disposal oflithium batteries is highly regulated.

Council Member Hyland asked if fire blankets or extinguishers were effective in combating the
fires. Chief Pilgrim stated that citizens should not try to put out a lithium battery fire. When an
e-bike caught fire in South Jordan in early summer, two houses burned down in a matter of
seconds. They are intense fires, and a normal fire extinguisher would not be effective. The time
spent trying to suppress it would be better used to get to safety.

Mayor Weichers stated that it was recently suggested that adding a fourth firefighter to Station 116
would help with wildland fires, but noted that UFA already has one of the largest wildland
departments within Utah. Chief Pilgrim stated that the state has passed legislation requiring more
wildland fire services, but unique to UFA is that all its firefighters have basic wildland fire training
and a large contingent of them have been wildland firefighters for over 15 years. They carry the
proper personal protective equipment at all times. If a fire occurred in the area, they would hike
in and immediately start suppressing the fire, whereas many fire departments traditionally wait
until Wildland Resources arrives on the scene.

Chief Pilgrim indicated that adding a fourth person to Station 116 would be both helpful and safer.
The more firefighters they have available, the more effective they can be. The UFA wildland
division currently has a 22-person hand crew, a 16-person Camp Williams crew, and a 12- to 15-
person field crew. On average, they have 45 seasonal wildland firefighters each summer. Chief
Pilgrim and many full-time firefighters came from the seasonal wildland fire program.

6.0     ACTION ITEMS

        6.1     Consideration of Resolution 2025-68 Declaring Certain Property Surplus. (By
                this resolution, the council will declare surplus and designate the method of
                disposition ofa 1998 International Command Post vehicle owned by the City.)

The above item was discussed during the Work Session.

MOTION: Council Member Birrell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2025-68 Declaring Certain
Property Surplus. The motion was seconded by Council Member Holton. Vote on Motion:
Council Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Birrell-Yes;
Council Member Holton-Yes; Mayor Weichers-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

7.0     CONSENT CALENDAR

        7.1     Approval of the Minutes for the City Council Work Session and Business
                Meetings of September 16, 2025.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for October 7, 2025          Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     19
MOTION: Council Member Newell moved to APPROVE the Consent Calendar. The motion
was seconded by Council Member Hyland. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the
Council.

8.0     ADJOURN

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to ADJOURN the Business Meeting and enter into
the open CDRA Meeting. The motion was seconded by Council Member Holton. The motion
passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.

The City Council Meeting adjourned at 7:35 PM.

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to ADJOURN the CDRA Meeting and enter into a
Closed Session to discuss the Sale of Real Property. The motion was seconded by Council
Member Holton. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.

The CDRA was in Closed Session from 7:40 PM to 8:00 PM.

MOTION: Council Member Holton moved to ADJOURN. The motion was seconded by Council
Member Hyland. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.

The Business Meeting adjourned at 8:01 PM




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for October 7, 2025   Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     20
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the
Cottonwood Heights City Council Work Session and City Council Business Meetings held on
Tuesday, October 7, 2025.



Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for October 7, 2025   Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                     21
    Cottonwood
    Cuy
               Heights
      !Nmvm 1/,e r,lll)'OIJJ




    Appendix 3

 STAFF REPORT

General Plan Update

    Jim Spung
                                                                                  anom ic




Meeting Requested:              Business Meeting □   Work Session IZI   Other □
Public Hearing Needed?          Yes D No IZI Undetermined D
                                Denied D Approved IZI Con inued D
CM Approval or Denial
                                CM Signature:--~         L_

Jim Spung wi ll lead a Genera l Plan Update.
  Cottonwood Heights
  City b,m•ufl 1hr r,IIIJOIIJ




  Appendix 4

STAFF REPORT
 Action Items

 Shane Topham
From:           Shane Topham
To:             Jared Gerber; Jiffany Janzen
Subject:        [EXT:]Legislation for October 21st Meetings
Date:           Tuesday, October 14, 2025 10:42:29 AM
Attachments:    WST-Cottonwood Heights CDRA-Resolutjon 2025-06 Approving Agreement to Lease for Town Center .pdf
                WST-Cottonwood Heights-CORA-Town Center-Agreement to Lease (CLEAN 10.8.25\.pdf
                WST-Cottonwood Heights-Proclamation 2025-03 Proclajmjng Utah PTA Centennjal Celebration Month.pdf
                WST-Cottonwood Heights-Ordinance 439 Amending Code Jitle 19 (October 2025 Code Maintenance\ pdf
                WST-Cottonwood Hejghts-Resolution 2025-69 Approyjng Agreement with GBS Benefits for Compensatjon
                ~
                Cottonwood Heights GBS Master Seryjces Agreement 10062025.docx
                Cottonwood Heights GB5 Statement of Work 10062025.docx


Greetings-


Drafts of the items of legislation scheduled for consideration at the October 21 st CORA
board and city council business meetings are attached for your review and comment:


CDRA Meeting

   1. Resolution 2025-06. By this resolution, the CDRA board wm approve and ratify the
      "Agreement to Lease" regarding the CDRA's proposed long-term ground lease of
      the town center site to an entity comprised of Onyx Development and Thrive
      Development or their principals. A copy of the Agreement to Lease is attached.
      Later this week I'll circulate the current draft of the Ground Lease, which will be an
      exhibit to the Agreement to Lease. The Ground Lease will be subject to final ization
      during the (likely several years') "Investigation Period" following the date of the
      Agreement to Lease. I also plan to circulate an advisory memorandum to the CORA
       boar·d and officers before next Tuesday summarizing the material terms of the
      Agreement to Lease and the Ground Lease.


City Council Meeting

   1. Proclamation 2025-03 designating October 2025 as "Utah PTA Centennial
      Celebration Month."


   2. Ordinance 439. This ordinance will amend Title 19 of the city's code of ordinances
      concerning catering services and open-air accessory structures as recommended
       by staff and the planning commission.


   3. Resolution 2025-69. This resolution will approve entry into an agreement
      whereunder GBS Benefits, Inc. will provide consulting services in connection with
       a wage/compensation study for up to ten City staff positions selected by City for
       an estimated fee of $16,000. A copy of the current draft of the proposed consulting
      agreement and its scope of work exhibit also are attached.


Please contact me as soon as possible if there are any questions or concerns regarding
the attachments.


Best regards-


Shane


WM. SHANE ToPHAM I Attorney I ToPHAM LEGAL

4930 Fairview Drive, Holladay, UT 84117
tel+801.808.6325 j .fil.Q

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: The content of this e-mail is confidential and proprietary and may
be attorney-client privileged. If you are not the intended recipient, please destroy it and notify:
wst@tophamlegal.com.

EXTERNAL ATTACHMENT: Only Open if you trust this sender.
                           Cottonwood Heights
                           liry INtwa11 tltr r,lll)OIIJ




                CDRA BUSINESS MEETING


                         Attachment 1
                      Resolution 2025-06
By this resolution the board will approve and ratify the agency's
   entry into an agreement to lease concerning the agency's
 approximately 11.5 acres of realty (currently owned or under
contract to purchase) within the agency's Town Center at 2300
     East Fort Union community reinvestment project area.
                        COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
             COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND RENEWAL AGENCY

                                   RESOLUTION NO. 2025-06

        A RESOLUTION APPROVING AND RATIFYING AN AGREEMENT TO LEASE
         AND RELATED DOCUMENTS FOR REALTY WITHIN THE TOWN CENTER
       AT 2300 EAST FORT UNION COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT PROJECT AREA


       WHEREAS, the Commw1ity Development and Renewal Agency (the "Agency") of the city
of Cottonwood Heights (the "City"') was created to transact the business and exercise all of the
powers provided for in the Limited Purpose Local Government Entities - Community Reinvestment
Agency Act (Title l 7C, Chapters l through 5, UTAH CODE ANNOTATED (1953 as amended) and any
subsequent, replacement or amended law or act (the "Act"); and

        WHEREAS, pursuant to section l ?C-5-104 of the Act, the Agency heretofore has adopted a
project area plan (the "Project Area Plan") for the Town Center at 2300 East Fort Union conununity
reinvestment project area (the "Project Area") by its Resolution 2022-0 l ; and

        WHEREAS, pursuant to its Ordinance 391 the City's city council (the " Council") adopted
the Project Area Plan as the official community development plan for tl1e Project Area and
authorized the Agency to proceed to carry out the Official Plan, all as provided in section l 7C-5-109
of the Act; and

       WHEREAS, in furtherance of such authorization, the Agency has negotiated with Onyx
Development, Inc. and Thrive Development, Inc., or an entity owned by them or their principals
("Tenant"), concerning the Agency's proposed long-tenn gratmd lease to Tenant of approximately
11.5 acres of ground (the "Property") that is located on the southeast comer of the intersection of
Fort Union Blvd and 2300 East Street within the Project Area, all as more fully described in the
"Agreement to Lease" likely to be dated on or about l November 2025 between the Agency and
Tenant (the "Agreement") and any and all related documents involving the Agency as a party which
are mentioned in or otherwise contemplated by that Agreement (collectively, the "Documents"); and

       WHEREAS, the Agency's governing board (the "Board") met on 21 October 2025 to
consider, among other things, approving the Agency's entry into the Documents; and

        WHEREAS, the current forms of all the Doctm1ents prepared to date are attached as exhibits
hereto; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Board has determined that it is in the best
interests of the Agency to approve and ratify, as appliable, the Agency's entry into the Documents as
proposed;

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the governing board of the Cottonwood
Heights Commw1ity Development and Renewal Agency that the Documents be, and hereby are,
ratified and approved, as applicable, and that the Agency's chairman, chief executive officer and
secretary are authorized to execute and deliver the Documents on behalf of the Agency on such
timetable as the Agency's chairman and chief executive officer, in consultation with the Agency's
legal counsel, deem appropriate; and

        BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED by the governing board of the Cottonwood Heights
Community Development and Renewal Agency that the Documents are so approved with such
additions, modifications, deletions or other changes as hereafter may be deemed necessary or
advisable by the Agency's chairman and chief executive officer in consultation with the Agency' s
legal counsel; and

        BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Agency's chairman and chief executive officer, in
consultation with the Agency's legal counsel, are hereby authorized to approve, execute and deliver
(as appropriate) any additional Documents necessary or advisable to advance or protect the Agency' s
interests in connection with the subject transaction; and

        BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED by the governing board of the Cottonwood Heights
Community Development and Renewal Agency that the Agency shall provide such notice(s), make
such filing(s) and perform such other acts as may be required by any applicable law in connection
with approval and adoption of the Documents.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2025-06, shall take immediate effect following the Agency' s
provision of any additional notice(s) or acts as may be required by the Act or other applicable law.

       PASSED AND APPROVED effective 21 October 2025.

                                              COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS COMMUNITY
ATTEST:                                       DEVELOPMENT AND RENEW AL AGENCY


By:_ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __                    By _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ __ _
   Tiffany Janzen, Secreta1y                     Michael T. Weichers, Chairnian


                                              VOTING:

                                              Michael T. Weichers            Yea_Nay _
                                              Matt Holton                    Yea_Nay_
                                              Suzanne Hyland                 Yea _ Nay_
                                              Shawn E. Newell                Yea_Nay _
                                              Ellen Birrell                  Yea_Nay_

      DEPOSITED in the office of the Secretary of the Cottonwood Heights Community
Development and Renewal Agency this 21 st day of October 2025.




                                                 2
                                  Agreement to Lease
       THIS AGREEMENT TO LEASE (this "Agreement") is made and entered into effective
_ October 2025 (the "Effective Date") by and among the COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND RENEWAL AGENCY ("Landlord") of the city of
Cottonwood Heights, Utah ("City"), whose address is 2277 East Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood
Heights, UT 84121 and TBD, a _ _ _ _ _ __ whose address is 7585 South Union Park
Avenue, Ste. 200, Midvale, UT 84047 ("Tenant"). In this Lease, Landlord and Tenant are each a
"Party" and collectively are the "Parties."



       A.      Landlord owns fee title to approximately 10.4 acres of realty located on the
Southeast Comer of the intersection of 2300 East and Fort Union Blvd. in Cottonwood Heights,
UT (the "Site"). The legal description of the Site is set forth on attached Exhibit "A."

      B.      The Site cun-ently houses the "Hillside Plaza" shopping center, an outdated,
undemtilized "strip" retail center shown on attached Exhibit "B."

        C.      Abutting the Site on its No1thwest comer is an approximately l.09 acre parcel (the
"Walgreens Parcel") cun-ently containing a "Walgreens" retail store that is owned in fee by
Cottonwood HP, LLC, is ground leased to Hillside-West, LLC (or an affiliate), and is sub-leased
to Walgreen Co (or an affiliate) ("Walgreens"). Landlord currently is negotiating to acquire fee
title to the Walgreens Parcel and tl1ereafter intends to pursue tenninating the subject leases
(collectively, the "Walgreens Leases") on reasonable terms and conditions or, if necessary, to
pursue an eminent domain action to terminate the Walgreens Leases. To Landlord's knowledge,
the tenn of the Walgreens Le.ases will expire no later than 31 July 2048.

       D.     The Site currently is encumbered by several tenant leases, all of which are
terminable upon no more than 90 days' prior written notice by Landlord to the current tenants (tl1e
"Terminable Leases") except the lease (the "Dollar Tree Lease") with Dollar Tree Stores, Inc.
("Dollar Tree") of the "Dollar Tree" premises, which currently expires on 31 March 2027 and may
be extended to 31 March 2032. Landlord is poised to commence negotiations with Dollar Tree
concerning tennination of the Dollar Tree Lease. If necessary, Landlord shall pursue an eminent
domain action to terminate the Dollar Tree Lease.

         E.      Effective 25 July 2025, the Parties entered into a non-binding letter of intent (the
"LOI") which contemplates, among other things, that the Parties would, following an
"Investigation Period", jointly enter into a mutually satisfactory ground lease (the "Ground
Lease," which would be recorded as a second-priority encumbrance on the Project [defined
below]), redevelopment agreement ("Development Agreement," which would be recorded as a
first-priority encumbrance on Project) and other related docmnents (collectively, the "Definitive
Documents") on such terms and conditions as may be specified in the Definitive Documents as
contemplated by the LOI.

        F.    The purpose of the Definitive Documents will be to cause the currently
undemtilized Site, augmented by the Walgreens Parcel, to be leased to Tenant and then soon
transformed into an active, sustainable, and cohesively-functioning and integrated mixed-use
                                              1
project (the "Project"). Landlord acquired the Site as a "legacy" holding that will be available for
redevelopment by Landlord at least every 75 years to better assure that it will consistently remain
an attractive, desirable, vibrant community amenity, as determined by Landlord at the times of
such redevelopments. The principal purposes and contents of the Definitive Documents are
summarized in the LOI.

        G.     Although the Parties desire to proceed with redevelopment of the Project as quickly
as possible, the Parties need to first resolve various open issues contemplated by the LOI,
including, without limitation, (1) Landlord ' s acquisition of fee title to the Walgreens Parcel; (2)
termination of the Walgreens Lease and relocation ofWalgreens from the Site, potentially through
an eminent domain action by Landlord; (3) termination of the Dollar Tree Lease and relocation of
Dollar Tree from the Site, potentially through an eminent domain action by Landlord; (4) approval
and grant, by City through its public process, of zoning, use, and other entitlements necessary for
the desired redevelopment of the Site; (5) subdivision of the Site into lots as reasonably deemed
necessary to facilitate Tenant's financing and construction of the Project's improvements (the
"Project Improvements"), including a separate lot for the Plaza (defined below) which will be
constructed and operated by Landlord or City as a public amenity; (6) creation and mutual approval
of schedule of deadlines for the various development milestones of the Project; and (7) possible
acquisition and approval of tax increment financing ("TIF') and other public funding for
pennissible Project purposes, as and if legally permissible and approved by Landlord and other
relevant public entities.

        H.     Before beginning to expend significant funds to plan and entitle the Project, Tenant
desires contractual assurance from Landlord that a reasonable time will be available for resolution
of the open issues and that Landlord will enter into the Ground Lease and other Definitive
Documents upon their resolution or waiver. Although Landlord is unwilling to enter into the
Ground Lease or otherwise grant to Tenant any property or other interest in the Site until certain
open issues are so resolved or waived as provided herein, Landlord recognizes the legitimacy of
Tenant's desire for more assurance of Landlord's obligations than the non-binding LOI provides.

        I.    Consequently, the purpose of this Agreement is (1) to institute a mutually
acceptable timeline for resolution of the open items, and (2) to evidence the Parties' intent to enter
into the Ground Lease and other Definitive Documents upon resolution or waiver of the applicable
Conditions (defined below) as provided in this Agreement.

        J.      The Parties intend to set forth herein their entire agreement concerning such intent
to lease, and to thereby supersede and consolidate herein all prior agreements and negotiations,
oral and/or written, between them regarding the same; provided, however, that the LOI will survive
for background and reference purposes only as noted in this Agreement.

                                       AGREE ME NT:

        NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, the mutual covenants and
tmdertakings of the Parties, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and legal
sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the Parties agree as follows:

        Section l.     Agreement to Lease. Unless this Agreement is terminated by a Party if and
as authorized below, each ofthe Parties covenants and agrees at Closing (defined below) to execute
                                                  2
and deliver the Ground Lease for the lease of the Site and the Walgreens Parcel upon resolution or
waiver of the Conditions as specified in this Agreement.

        Section 2.       Form of Ground Lease. During the Investigation Period (defined below),
the Pa11ies will work together in good faith to finalize the terms of the Ground Lease (including,
but not limited to, the "Open Lease Terms" defined below), which will be substantially in the fonn
attached hereto as Exhibit "C".

                  2.1.   Open Lease Terms. For purposes of this Agreement, the Open Lease Terms
are as follows:

                       (a)   Completion of "Blanks". Any "blanks" in the Ground Lease are
completed to the Parties' mutual satisfaction;

                         (b)    Extension Option. The Ground Lease is modified to address whether
and on what conditions Tenant should have an option to extend its tenn for up to an additional 15
years ( for a total term of up to 7 5 years) as Tenant has requested and as Landlord is considering
granting on certain conditions. Throughout the Investigation Period the Parties will negotiate in
good faith to determine whether and on what conditions an extension option is to be included in
the Ground Lease. Failing any such agreement, there will be no extension option.

                       (c)      Rent; Rent Commencement. The Ground Lease is modified to
include a mutually-acceptable "Rent Commencement Date." Tenant acknowledges Landlord' s
desire for rent to commence on an earlier date to assure a consistent, reasonable return on
Landlord's investment of public monies, and Landlord acknowledges Tenant's desire for rent to
commence on a later date so that Tenant can pay rent with revenue from the Project and avoid the
need to seek additional capital or financing. Throughout the Investigation Period, the Parties will
negotiate in good faith to set a mutually-agreeable "Rent Commencement Date."

                 2.2.   Execution and Recording of Ground Lease. Provided neither Party elects to
tenninate this Agreement pursuant to any tennination right provided in this Agreement, at Closing
the Parties will each execute and cause to be recorded the Ground Lease as negotiated and finalized
during the Investigation Period.

       Section 3.        Background Concerning Bonds and Possible Public Funding.

                3.1.   Overview. In November 2024, City's voters approved a $30 million bond
("Bond") to (a) satisfy the costs of Bond issuance and financing Landlord's acquisition of the Site
totaling over $14 Million, and (b) assist with the design and construction of public improvements
within the Project, including Plaza development costs, streetscape and infrastructure
improvements, utilities within any new internal roadway(s), demolition, and possibly funding for
any public Parking Strncture(s) if and as contemplated by the Definitive Documents. Further, the
Site is part of a Landlord-designated "Community Reinvestment Area," making tax increment
financing ("TIF') and other revenue tools potentially available.

              3.2.   Use of Available Bond Funds. Throughout the Investigation Period,
Landlord will consult with Tenant as Landlord fonnulates a budget for the best use of the
remaining approximately $15 Million in Bond funds (the "Available Bond Funds") taking into
                                                 3
consideration the following priorities:

                        (a)   First, Landlord's cost of terminating the Dollar Tree Lease,
relocating its tenant, and otherwise as necessary to make that portion of the Site available for
development;

                      (b)     Second, Landlord' s cost of acquiring unencumbered fee title to the
Walgreens Parcel, including terminating the Walgreens Leases, relocating its tenant, and otherwise
as necessary to make the Walgreens Parcel available for development;

                      (c)    Third, Landlord's cost of planning and constructing the Plaza
(defined below) that would serve as a focal point of the Project and all improvements thereon as
contemplated by the Project's approved Final Site Plan (defined below);

                     (d)    Fomth, to defray Tenant's cost of Site demolition and grading, as
reasonably approved by Landlord;

                    (e)        Fifth, to defray Tenant's cost of Site utilities, as reasonably
approved by Landlord;

                      (f)     Sixth, to defray Tenant's cost of internal roadway, walkways,
surface parking, landscaped areas, and similar, as reasonably approved by Landlord;

                       (g)     Seventh, to defray Tenant's cost of any Parking Structure (defined
below) on the Site, as reasonably approved by Landlor~ and

                        (h)     Eighth, to defray Tenant's cost of any other Project infrastructure
that will be available for public access and enjoyment, as reasonably approved by Landlord.

The actual allocation of the Available Bond Funds will be detailed in the Development Agreement.

                3.3.    Possible TIF Funding. TIF funding may be made available for permissible
Project purposes as and if legally permissible and approved by Landlord and the subject taxing
entities. The availability of TIF funding will require demonstration of a resulting public benefit
such as parking rights, use rights, additional rent under the Ground Lease, or similar. Throughout
the Investigation Period Landlord will use its reasonable best efforts to obtain approval of TIF
funding by the subject taxing entities as soon as reasonably possible. If TIF Funding is granted,
the Development Agreement will address all pertinent information such as allocation of the
resulting funding and additional documentation that may be required to evidence the necessary
public benefit. Tenant will fully and timely cooperate with all of Landlord's efforts to obtain TIF
Funding.

               3.4.   Possible Other Public Funding. Throughout the Investigation Period,
Landlord will use its reasonable best efforts to locate and obtain from or through separate
governmental entities such other public funds (such as TRCC funding) ("Other Public Funds") as
may be available to apply toward Landlord's cost of completing items 3.2(a)-(c), inclusive, above.
If Other Public Funds are obtained, then the resulting savings of Available Bond Funds will be
made available to defray Tenant's cost of completing items 3.2(d)-(h), inclusive, above, as
                                                 4
reasonably, mutually agreed by the Parties. Tenant will fully and timely cooperate with all of
Landlord's efforts to obtain Other Public Funds.

               3.5.    Cooperation in Seeking Public Funding. Throughout the Investigation
Period the Patties will fully and expeditiously cooperate with each other to seek and obtain such
TIF fi.mding and Other Public Funds (collectively, "Public Funding") as may be available from or
through other governmental entities to defray development costs associated with the Project.

       Section 4.     Conditions of Landlord's Obligation to Lease.

               4.1.    Landlord's Conditions. Landlord's obligation to enter into the Lease and to
perfonn its obligations thereunder is subject to fulfillment (or, as to 4.l[d]-[f] below, waiver
thereof by Landlord in writing) of the following conditions ("Landlord's Conditions") before end
of the Investigation Period:

                       (a)    Acquisition of Wal2:reens Parcel. Landlord will have acquired fee
simple title to the Walgreens Parcel on tenns and conditions reasonably acceptable to Landlord,
as evidenced by the recording of a deed conveying fee simple title to Landlord;

                      (b)     Termination ofWalgreens Leases. The Walgreens Leases will have
been tem1inated and Walgreens (and any successor tenant or subtenant) will have exited the Site,
on terms and conditions reasonably acceptable to Landlord and Landlord will have taken exclusive
possession and control of the Walgreens Parcel;

                     (c)    Termination of Dollar Tree Lease. The Dollar Tree Lease will have
been tenninated and Dollar Tree will have exited th.e Site, on tem1S and conditions reasonably
acceptable to Landlord and Landlord wi.Jl have taken exclusive possession and control of the
subject premises.

Commencing on the Effective Date and continuing throughout the Investigation Period Landlord
will use its co1mnercially reasonable, diligent best efforts to pursue and complete acquisition of
the Walgreens Parcel and termination of the Walgreens Leases and the Dollar Tree Lease.

                     (d)      Approval of Final Site Plan. Through its public process City will
have approved the Final Site Plan in such form as Landlord reasonably deems acceptable;

                     (e)    Definitive Docun1ents. The Development Agreement and other
Definitive Documents principally as summarized herein and in the LOI will have been negotiated
and reasonably approved by the Parties for mutual execution and delivery at Closing; and

                        (f)    Tenant's Perfonnance. Tenant will have materially complied with
all of Tenant's obligations to be performed hereunder.

                4.2.   Landlord's Satisfaction Notice. Upon Landlord's satisfaction or waiver, as
applicable, of Landlord' s Conditions 4. l(a)-(t), above, Landlord will promptly deliver written
notice thereof to Tenant ("Landlord's Satisfaction Notice") , along with any written documentation
of the same reasonably requested by Tenant. After delivery of Landlord's Satisfaction Notice, the
term "Site" will include the Walgreens Parcel. If Landlord fails to so deliver Landlord's
                                                5
Satisfaction Notice by I November 2028 (the "Acquisition Deadline"), however, then such failure
shall not constitute a default by Landlord hereunder but shall entitle either Party to terminate this
Agreement upon at least ten days' prior written notice and opportunity to cure or waive to the other
Party, in which event Landlord and Tenant shall have no further obligations, one to the other, with
respect to the subject matter of this Agreement, other than those items that expressly survive any
termination of this Agreement.

        Section 5.     Investigation Period.

                5.1.   Due Diligence. Commencing on the Effective Date and continuing until the
date that is:

                       (a)     12 months after the Acquisition Deadline if Landlord's Satisfaction
Notice is delivered by the second anniversary of the Effective Date, or

                       (b)    Six months after the Acquisition Deadline if Landlord's Satisfaction
Notice is delivered between the second and third am1iversaries of the Effective Date,

(the "Investigation Period"), Tenant and its employees, contractors and agents will have the right
to enter the Site (including the Walgreens Parcel after Landlord acquires the Walgreens Parcel, with
prior written consent of the tenants of the Walgreens Parcel) to conduct at its cost its own due
diligence investigations, and otherwise conduct its own due diligence with respect to the transaction
contemplated by this Agreement and the LOI, which may include, without limitation:

                       (v)    Tenant's review of the condition of title to the Site and the Walgreens
Parcel, provided that Tenant will pay the cost of any leasehold policy of title insurance desired by
Tenant;

                        (w)     Tenant's review of the physical condition of the Site and the
Walgreens Parcel, such as soil and ground water conditions, the stability and load-bearing capacity
of the soil; the presence of hazardous material on the Site and the Walgreens Parcel or the potential
for migration of hazardous material onto the Site and the Walgreens Parcel from other properties;
archeological and geological matters; and any other matters reasonably deemed appropriate by
Tenant;

                       (x)  Tenant's review of the Terminable Leases and confinnation that all
such leases encumbering the Site are terminable upon no more than 90 days' prior written notice
to the tenants thereunder;

                    (y)     Tenant's confinnation that Tenant will be permitted to utilize the
Available Bond Funds as provided in Section 3 .2 above; and

                      (z)     Tenant's review of any existing plans, surveys, specifications,
environmental studies, title work and similar items that may be in Landlord's possession relating
to the Site and Walgreens Parcel, which Landlord will provide to Tenant promptly upon written
request.

Tenant's right to enter the interior portions of the Site occupied by current tenants always is subject
to Landlord's prior approval, which will not be withheld or delayed unreasonably. Tenant's right
                                                  6
to enter the Walgreens Parcel always is subject to Landlord's prior acquisition of fee simple title
to that parcel and the prior consent of Landlord and the tenants under the Walgreens Leases. Tenant
will, at its cost, promptly repair any damage to the Site and Walgreens Parcel caused by Tenant's
entry and inspection. Landlord will, without material cost, reasonably cooperate with and facilitate
Tenant's due diligence investigations, including providing copies of such surveys, third-party
studies, reports, underlying lease documents, and the like as may be in Landlord's possession or
reasonably accessible to Landlord within 15 days after Tenant's written request.

               5.2.    Title and Survev Review.

                        (a)    During the Investigation Period, Tenant may at its expense obtain a
survey for all of the Site and the Walgreens Parcel by either updating the survey provided by
Landlord (if any) or causing to be prepared a new survey for all of the Site. The most recent survey
for the Site and the Walgreens Parcel, whether such survey is a new or updated survey prepared
for the benefit of or commissioned by Tenant, or any previous survey provided by Landlord, will
be referred to herein as the "Survey." Landlord promptly shall provide to Tenant upon Tenant's
written request copies of all surveys of the Site and the Walgreens Parcel obtained by Landlord.

                        (b)    Tenant will have the right at any time prior to the expiration of the
Investigation Period to review and to object, in writing, to any easements, liens, encmnbrances,
survey items, or other exceptions or matters in the title commitment obtained by Tenant (the "Title
Commitment") or shown on the Survey ( collectively, the " Title O~jections"). If Tenant fails to
timely object to anything in the Title Commitment or Survey within the Investigation Period, then
the condition of title to the Site and Walgreens Parcel reflected on the Title Commihuent and
Survey will be deemed approved. If Title Objections are made within the Investigation Period,
Landlord will detem1ine as to each of the Title Objections, whether or not Landlord is willing or
able to eliminate.

Within 15 days after receipt of any Title Objections, Landlord will notify Tenant in writing as to
those Title Objections that Landlord will cause to be eliminated or insured over. If Landlord does
not timely respond to such Title Objections, then Landlord will be deemed to have elected to not
cure such Title Objections. Landlord will be obligated to eliminate any deeds of trust, mortgages,
judgment liens, mechanics' liens, materialmen's liens and other monetary liens placed on the Site
and Walgreens Parcel by Landlord. If Landlord acquires fee title to the Walgreens Parcel and
succeeds in terminating the Walgreens Leases, Landlord will diligently pursue elimination of any
such financial encumbrances on title to the Walgreens Parcel.

If Landlord's written notice indicates that Landlord is unable or unwilling to eliminate any Title
Objections upon tenns acceptable to Tenant in Tenant' s reasonable discretion, then Tenant may,
prior to the expiration of the Investigation Period, either (i) waive the Title Objections that
Landlord was unwilling or unable to cure, or (ii) tem1inate this Agreement by giving Landlord
written notice of termination, whereupon neither Tenant nor Landlord will have any further right,
liability, duty or obligation under this Agreement, except for agreements or covenants that
specifically survive termination. For clarification purposes, Tenant will not be pem1itted to object
to the following title exceptions shown on Schedule B-II of Commitment Number 2596085KB
dated 13 August 2025 issued by Old Republic National Title Insurance Company: l-7, 8 (as to
current year property taxes), 9-23, 24 (as to current year property taxes), 25-36, 37-38 (unless a
reasonable time has passed after Landlord acquired fee simple title to the Walgreens Parcel), 39

                                                  7
(unless a reasonable time has passed after tem1ination of the Walgreens Leases), and 40.

                5.3.   New Encumbrances. If the Title Commitment or Survey is re-issued or
updated after the Investigation Period, Tenant shall have the right to object (each, a "New
Objection") to any additional matter disclosed or contained in any such update that was not shown
in the Title Commitment, was not consented to by Tenant and adversely affects in any material
way the ownership, use or operation of, or title to, the Site and Walgreens Parcel (notwithstanding
the passage of the Investigation Period). If Landlord is unable or unwilling to cause any such New
Objection to be removed by Closing, Tenant shall have the right either to (i) waive such New
Objection and proceed to Closing, or (ii) terminate this Agreement, in which event Landlord and
Tenant shall have no further obligations, one to the other, with respect to the subject matter of this
Agreement, other than those items that expressly survive any termination of this Agreement.

                5.4.     Owners Affidavit. At the Closing, Landlord shall execute and deliver an
owner's title affidavit sufficient for the Tenant's escrow agent to issue to Tenant a leasehold policy
of title insurance in the form reasonably required by Tenant, a standard gap indemnity, and any
other document or undertaking reasonably required to cure or remove the exceptions to title that
Landlord is obligated to cure or remove or that Landlord has agreed to cure or remove as a part of
the title review process pursuant to Section 5.2.

        Section 6.     Development Agreement. During the Investigation Period and concurrent
with Tenant seeking its Entitlements (defined below) the Parties will negotiate the form of the
Development Agreement as provided in the LOI and this Agreement to outline their additional
respective rights and duties concerning development of the Project. Althougl1 Tenant may
encumber its leasehold and its vertical improvements in the Project, to assure survival of the
Pa11ies' respective rights and obligations under the Development Agreement, the Development
Agreement will be recorded as a first-priority encumbrance on the Project and will be in effect for
the entire duration of the Ground Lease. Among other provisions, the Parties anticipate that the
Development Agreement will address the following:

                6. l.   Site Planning and Entitlements. Formulation of the Final Site Plan as
provided in Section 6.2 and related documents for the Project that are reasonably acceptable to
both Landlord and Tenant and approved by City's advisory and governing bodies, such as its
administrative staff, planning commission, architectural review commission, and city council, all
as required or reasonably deemed advisable by Landlord pursuant to applicable statutes,
ordinances and rules ("legal requirements"). In that regard, Tenant acknowledges that (i) City in
its reasonable discretion in compliance with legal requirements, and not Landlord, will control all
aspects of such entitlement process, including zoning, conditional use, subdivision and other
processes that may be required under applicable laws to allow redevelopment of the Site to proceed
as contemplated by the Development Agreement; and (ii) City may elect to create a site-specific
zoning designation for the Site that will (A) be subject to approval by City's planning commission,
architectural review commission and city council; (B) establish approved site plans, uses and other
development standards; and (C) govern future changes and modifications to the use of the Site.
Landlord will endeavor to facilitate and coordinate the necessary approvals by Landlord and such
other public bodies in an effort to diminish the overall time needed for such review and approval
to the extent reasonably possible.

               6.2.    Final Site Plan. That the Parties will cooperate together and expeditiously
                                                  8
work to formulate a mutually-acceptable comprehensive, detailed final site plan, building
elevations, materials schedules, and similar items affecting the "look and feel" of the Project
(collectively, the "Final Site Plan") and other entitlements for the Project that are approved by the
City incorporating (among others) the following:

                       (a)     A public plaza space for public gathering, recreation, entertainment,
City events, etc., consisting of approximately two acres in size and related pavilion and
improvements (collectively, the "Plaza"). Both the Plaza and central roadway(s) through the Site
would be public amenities. Planning and design of the Plaza and Project common areas will be a
collaborative effort that will be initiated by Landlord as soon as reasonably possible after the
Effective Date and thereafter diligently pursued by Landlord with Tenant' s collaboration and
input. Construction of the Plaza will be at Landlord' s cost utilizing some of the Available Bond
Funds while construction of all other infrastructure and amenities with be at Tenant's cost as
described in the Development Agreement. Roadways throughout the Site will be designed for slow
speeds, have on-street parking, and will prioritize pedestrian and non-vehicular traffic.

                        (b)    An appropriate mix of retail uses for the non-public areas of the
Project that are compatible with the City' s and Landlord's master plans and vision for the Site that
will result in a vibrant and active town center development. Massing and footprint sizes will be
designed to support various types of uses while ensuring that massing and overall densities are
compatible with the City's and Landlord' s vision for the Project. For ground-level uses in
particular, preference will be given to a mix of commercial and retail uses that activate the Site.
The Project will contain approximately 100,000 - 140,000 square feet of commercial uses in
approximately six buildings fronting Ft. Union Blvd. and 2300 East; residential town-home
dwellings as described in Section 6.2(c) below; the Plaza; and. other amenities, buildings and
improvements (collectively, "Impro vem ents").

                       (c)    First-class quality "for rent" residential dwellings. Landlord and
Tenant anticipate this portion of the Project will include no more than eighty (80) residential
townhome units. Incorporation of more than 80 residential townhome units in the Project will
require justification to, and prior review and approval by, Landlord and City (through its
development approval process). Any criteria for such approval may be detailed in the Development
Agreement.

                6.3.    Parking. For ample parking facilities to be designed and constructed to
suppo1t the Project's residents, retail customers, and visitors. Final stall counts shall be determined
based on the mix of uses, market demand, and City requirements. Any parking structure(s)
("Parhng Structure'") will be constructed, owned and maintained by Tenant and Tenant will
attempt in good faith to include creative design options for screening and limiting impact to
adjacent areas. Parking Structure massing will follow the same height and massing restrictions as
other buildings on the Site. Available Bond Funds will be made available to defray Tenant's cost
of constrncting any Parking Structure as provided in Section 3.2. A public use easement agreement
(the "Easement Agreement" ) prepared by Landlord and reasonably approved by Tenant will
provide, among other things, for public parking throughout the Project in mutually agreed-upon
areas, including in any Parking Structure constrncted in whole or in part with Available Bond
Funds or TIF proceeds. Tenant may seek Landlord's pennission for limited "premium parking" in
the Project to seek additional revenue and attract premium commercial tenants.


                                                  9
               6.4.    Demolition and Grading. For demolition of existing building and Site
elements, and Site grading. Tenant will use commercially reasonable efforts to minimize excessive
grading. The Development Agreement will obligate Tenant to raze and grade the entire Site
(including the Plaza) at its cost, provided that Available Bond Funds will be made available to
defray Tenant's cost of Site demolition and grading as provided in Section 3.2.

                6.5.   Site Utilities. For appropriate utilities (electricity, natural gas, culinary
water, sanitary sewer, storm drainage, etc.) to be installed throughout the Project, with
consideration given for water/sewer/stonn drain capacity needs on the Site. Tenant will be
responsible for the cost of Site utilities, provided that Available Bond Funds shall be made
available to defray Tenant's cost of Site utilities as provided in Section 3.2.

               6.6.   Subdivision. For Tenant's possible subdivision of the Site into lots as
reasonably deemed necessary by Tenant and approved by Landlord and City. The Plaza will be
subdivided as a separate Lot if desired by Landlord, at Landlord' s cost.

                6.7.   Development Schedule. The Development Agreement will specify
deadlines for the various development milestones of the Project, including approval of the Final
Site Plan, granting by the City of necessary entitlements, and substantial completion of
construction and readying for occupancy of the Project's various buildings. The Parties
acknowledge that phasing of the Project is subject to market conditions, and that reasonable
modifications to the development schedule will be pennitted, as mutually agreed by the parties
under the Development Agreement. Construction of the Plaza will occur as reasonably required
by Landlord in consultation with Tenant and will not necessarily follow construction of any of the
other Project Improvements in order to, for example, provide a staging area for construction of
tliose other Project Improvements.

               6.8.     Construction Standards. For all Project Improvements to be constmcted in
accordance with Landlord- and City-approved plans and specifications, by licensed, bonded
contractors in a first-class manner in compliance with all applicable building codes and legal
requirements, subject only to such third-party leasehold financing as Tenant reasonably finds
appropriate.

                6.9.    Building Height. The Development Agreement will provide that
commercial buildings in the Project shall be limited to no more than two stories in height with an
attractive mix of pitched and flat roofs including architectural features, such as chimneys, parapets,
and/or tower-type elements. No building in the Project (residential or commercial) will exceed 35
feet in height measured from the average existing grade of the Site adjacent to the existing abutting
residential areas to the highest point of the building. Based on an ALTA survey obtained by
Landlord the average elevation of the Site is 4,637.50 feet; consequently, Agency agrees that the
maximum building height in the Project shall be 4,672.50 feet subject to City approval. The height
measurement of a proposed building will be provided and clearly labeled during building plan
submittal and certified by a licensed engineer.

                 6.10. Constn1ction Costs. Except for the Plaza, as discussed herein, the
Development Agreement will provide that Tenant will pay all fees and costs to entitle and ready
the Site for redevelopment, to construct all Improvements on the Site, and thereafter to maintain
all aspects of the Project throughout the t~nn of the Ground Lease.
               6.11. Public Funding. For possible public funding for Project purposes as
described in Section 3, above.

                6.12. Public Areas. For the Parties' entry into the Easement Agreement as part of
the Definitive Documents. Among other things, the Easement Agreement will provide an express
easement in City's favor assuring that the Plaza is available for public use during all times (up to
24/7/365) desired by City under such terms, conditions, mles and the like as City reasonably may
specify from time to time. City's right to use the Plaza pursuant to such easement shall be primary
and superior to all other use rights with respect to the Plaza, any or all of which shall be subject to
control or prohibition by City. Subject to City's primary right to control use of the Plaza, the
Development Agreement or the Easement Agreement will further provide that City and Tenant
(and any owners association or similar from tin1e to time in effect in the Project) may cooperate in
programming use of the Plaza and other public areas of the Project to facilitate the staging of events
such as festivals, outdoor marketplaces, community celebrations and the like designed to activate
and continually freshen public visitation and use of the Project.

                6.13. Other Definitive Documents. For the Parties' entry into such other
Definitive Documents as either Party reasonably may require in order to more fully and accurately
document in written form their respective rights and obligations concerning the Project and to
better assure the efficient functioning of the Project in a cohesive integrated maimer.

                6.14. Additional Provisions. The Development Agreement will include such
additional commercially reasonable provisions as Landlord or Tenant may reasonably propose to
the other Party.

       Section 7.      Tenant to Seek Entitlements.

                7.1.   Entitlements. Before the end of tlie Investigation Period on such timetable
as Tenant deems appropriate Tenant will plan its redevelopment of the Site and pursue and obtain
approval for all entitlements, zoning, use, occupancy, licenses, permit, submittals, approvals,
consents, or actions related to the development, use, occupancy, and/or operation of the Site (the
"Entitlements"). In furtherance of the foregoing, the parties will satisfy the following (the
"Entitlements Conditions") (Landlord's Conditions and the Entitlement Conditions are,
collectively, the "Conditions"):

                       (a)     Subdivision. Preparation of a final plat that, when recorded, will
subdivide the Plaza as a separate lot and the balance of the Site into such lots as Tenant reasonably
deems necessary to facilitate Tenant's financing and constmction of the Project Improvements (the
"Final Plat"). Landlord will pursue subdivision of the Plaza at its own cost, Tenant will consult
with Landlord while preparing the Final Plat, and the Parties will work together in a mutually
cooperative manner to maximize the value and general aesthetics of the Site, taking into
consideration Landlord's desire to enhance the general public 's use of the Plaza. The Final Plat
will be recorded at Closing and will show the Plaza as a separate lot as reasonably specified by
Landlord.

                      (b)     Negotiation of Forms of Definitive Documents. The Parties will
negotiate in good faith to finalize the fonns of the Definitive Documents to be executed (and
                                                  11
recorded, as applicable) at Closing, which will include, without limitation:

                               (i)     The Development Agreement;

                              (ii)    The Easement Agreement, which (among other things) will
provide for public use of the Project's parking facilities while using the Plaza, for cooperative
programming of use of the Plaza (including Tenant's right to occasionally use the Plaza for certain
events) and for an equitable division of maintenance responsibilities for the Plaza; and

                                 (iii)   If desired, a master declaration of covenants, conditions and
restrictions (and any sub-declarations desired by Tenant) governing the commercial site, the Plaza
and the residential site, as applicable (collectively, "CC&Rs") to be recorded after recording of the
Development Agreement, the Ground Lease, and the Easement Agreement;

Each of items 7.l(b)(i)-(iii) shall be expressly terminable (and omitted as title encumbrances on
the Site) by the then owner of fee simple title to the Site at any time following termination of the
Ground Lease.

                     (c)     Approval of Acceptable Final Site Plan, Etc. Through its public
process, City will have approved the final Site Plan and granted all zoning, use, and other
entitlements needed for the desired redevelopment of the Site on such tem1s and conditions as
Tenant reasonably may approve.

                       (d)     TIF. Etc. TIF and other public funding for permissible Project
purposes as and if legally permissible as reasonably desired by Tenant will have been approved by
Landlord and the relevant taxing ·entities.

               7.2.    Landlord Cooperation with Entitlement Activities. Landlord will timely
cooperate in good faith with Tenant's efforts to pursue approval of the Entitlements before Closing,
as reasonably detennined by Tenant. Landlord's cooperation will include without limitation (a)
execution of any owners affidavits or similar instruments required by City or other authority
related to Tenant's pursuit of the Entitlements in fonns reasonably acceptable to Landlord, and (b)
taking any other commercially reasonable action requested by Tenant in its pursuit of the
Entitlements. Landlord's cooperation shall not include, however, incurring any material liability
or cost not expressly approved in advance by Landlord.

                7.3.     Tenant's Satisfaction Notice. Upon satisfaction or waiver of the Entitlement
Conditions, Tenant will promptly deliver written notice thereof to Landlord (" Tenant 's
Satisfaction Notice") along with any written documentation of the same reasonably requested by
Landlord. If Tenant fails to so deliver Tenant's Satisfaction Notice within five business days after
the end of the Investigation Period, however, then either Party may terminate this Agreement upon
at least ten days' prior written notice and opportunity to cure or waive to the other Party, in which
event Landlord and Tenant shall have no further obligations, one to the other, with respect to the
subject matter of this Agreement, other than those items that expressly survive any termination of
this Agreement.

       Section 8.      Closing.


                                                  12
                8.1.   Closing Date. Closing and consummation ("Closing") of the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement will occur, if at all, no later than ten business days after the last
to occur of (i) delivery of Tenant's Satisfaction Notice to Landlord accompanied by Tenant's
written waiver of any uncompleted Entitlement Conditions, or (ii) delivery of Landlord's
Satisfaction Notice to Tenant accompanied by Landlord's written waiver of any uncompleted
Landlord's Conditions in Section 4. l(d)-(f), provided that Closing must occur, if at all, within one
month after the end of the Investigation Period. The actual date of Closing ("Closing Date" ) will
be at a place and time, and on a business day, mutually agreed upon by the Parties.

                8.2.   Closing Deliveries. At Closing, the Parties will execute and record, as
applicable, the following documents in the following order:

                       (a)     The Development Agreement;

                       (b)     The Ground Lease;

                       (c)     The Final Plat;

                       (d)     The Easement Agreement;

                       (e)     The CC&Rs; and

                      (f)    Subsequently, such other instruments and documents as may be
reasonably requested by the parties or reasonably necessary to effect or carry out the purposes of
this Agreement.

               8.3.    Prorations and Closing Costs. Except as expressly set forth in this
Agreement, each party must bear its own costs (including attorneys' fees) in connection with its
negotiation, due diligence investigation, and conduct of the Agreement.

                       (a)     Landlord shall pay any repayment penalties and other amounts
necessary to release any deeds of trnst, mortgages, judgment liens, mechanics' liens,
materialmen' s liens and other liens to the extent required under Section 5.2;

                         (b)     Tenant shall pay (i) the cost of the Survey, (ii) the cost of the Title
Policy and, if desired by Tenant, upgrading the Title Policy to an extended coverage Title Policy
and/or the cost of all title endorsements issued in connection with the Title Policy, (iii) the cost of
recording new liens and encumbrances against the Site created by Tenant, and (iv) any transfer
taxes or local documentary stamps.

                      (c)     Taxes and assessments shall be prorated as of the Closing Date.
Landlord shall pay any rollback taxes associated with the Site.

               8.4    Possession. On the Closing Date, Landlord shall deliver full, sole, vacant
and exclusive possession of the Site to Tenant.

       Section 9.      Termination. This Agreement may be terminated as follows:


                                                  13
                9.1.   Bv Tenant. Tenant may freely terminate this Agreement upon written notice
that is received by Landlord within one business day after the end of the Investigation Period.

               9.2.    Breach or Bankruptcy. Either Party may terminate this Agreement upon
written notice to the other Party upon the occurrence of any material breach of any of the
representations, warranties or covenants of the other Party occurring on or prior to Closing which
breach is not cured within the longer of any cure period specified elsewhere in the Agreement or
twenty (20) days after written notice and opportunity to cure from the non-breaching Party to the
Breaching party. Further, if either Party files for bankruptcy, voluntarily or involuntarily, on or
before the Closing Date that is not dismissed within 60 days after filing the other Party may within
30 days thereafter terminate this Agreement by written notice giving at least 30 days' opportunity
to achieve dismissal of such filing.

                9.3.    Failure of Condition. This Agreement also is terminable as provided in
Section 4.2 (due to failure of Landlord's Conditions and Landlord's Satisfaction Notice), Section
7.3 (due to failure of the Entitlement Conditions and Tenant's Satisfaction Notice), and Section
8.1 (due to failure to timely close following failure to complete or waive the Conditions). Upon
any tennination under this Section 9.3, Landlord shall reimburse 50% of Tenant's verified out-of-
pocket costs to unrelated third parties incurred before delivery of Landlord's Satisfaction Notice
(if any) in pursuing the Entitlements, up to a maximum reimbursement of $200,000.

In the event of termination of this Agreement, and except as provided in Section 10 below, neither
Party shall have any further liability hereunder, except such termination sliall not excuse or
eliminate any breaches of this Agreement which have occurred prior to such tem1ination.

       Section l 0.     Default; Remedies. If a Party fails to perfonn any of its material obligations
hereunder and suclt condition is not cured within 20 days after written notice from th•e other Party
specifying such default, the defaulting Party shall be in default hereunder and the non-defaulting
Party shall be entitled to proceed at law and in equity to enforce its rights under this Agreement,
provided that the non-defaulting Party shall not in any event be permitted to seek or receive any
punitive, consequential or special damages.

        Section 11 .  Landlord Covenants. Landlord covenants and agrees that during the
period from the Effective Date through and including the Closing or the earlier termination of this
Agreement:

              (a)     Landlord will timely pay and perfom1 its obligations in all material respects
under any contract affecting or encumbering the Site.

               (b)     Excluding (i) contracts in connection with Landlord' s efforts to tem1inate
the Walgreens Leases, the Dollar Tree Lease, and the Tenninable Leases affecting the Site and the
Walgreens Parcel, (ii) Landlord's own financing arrangements (whether bonding or secured loans)
concerning Landlord' s interest in such realty, (iii) any other contract involving Landlord's
ownership of fee title to such realty which will not adversely affect Tenant's rights under this
Agreement, and (iv) any contract Landlord is required to sign under applicable law, Landlord shall
not enter into any contract that reasonably may adversely affect Tenant' s anticipated leasehold
interest in the Project \.vithout Tenant's prior written consent (collectively, "Additional
Contracts"), which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. If such
                                                14
request for consent to an Additional Contract is made by Landlord and Tenant fails to object in
writing within five (5) business days after receipt thereof, Tenant shall be deemed to have approved
said Additional Contract.

               (c)    Landlord shall operate, maintain and manage the Site in a manner consistent
with Landlord's past practices with respect to the Site; provided, however, Landlord shall not be
obligated to perform any capital improvements or any deferred maintenance repairs.

               (d)     Landlord shall timely pay before delinquency all taxes, assessments and
charges affecting the Site arising during the period from the Effective Date through and including
the Closing Date and shall maintain in full force and effect and pay all premiums on all liability
and other insurance policies currently covering the Site and shall not reduce the amount of
coverage of any such policies.

        Section 12.   Notice. Except as otherwise required by law, any notice, demand, or request
given in connection with this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be given by personal delivery,
overnight courier service, facsimile, or United States certified mail, return receipt requested,
postage or other delivery charge prepaid, addressed to Seller or Buyer at the following addresses
(or at such other address as Tenant, Landlord or the person receiving copies may designate in
writing given in accordance with this Section 12):

       Tenant:                 TBD,LLO
                               Attn:
                                     - - - - - -- - - -
                               7585 Union Park Avenue, Ste. 200
                               Cottonwood Heights, UT 84047
                               Phone:
                                      ---------
                               Email: - - - - - - - - -

       With a copy to:         KIRTON McCONKIE
                               Attn: A. Chase Nielsen
                               50 East South Temple, Suite 400
                               Salt Lake City, UT 84111
                               Phone: (801) 328-3600
                               Email: cnielsen@kmclaw.com

        Landlord:              COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS C DRA
                               Attn: Chief Executive Officer
                               2277 East Bengal Blvd.
                               Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121
                               Phone: (801) 944-7000
                               Email: jgerber@ch.utah.gov

        With a copy to:        TOPHAM LEGAL
                               Attn: Wm. Shane Topham
                               4930 Fairview Drive
                               Holladay, UT 84117
                               Phone: (801) 808-6325
                               Email: wst@tophamlegal.com
                                                 15
Notice may also be given by e-mail, provided that an additional copy of the notice is given by one
of the other permitted means set forth above. Notice shall be deemed to have been received on the
date on which notice is delivered if notice is given by personal delivery or email, on the next
business day after delivery to the overnight courier service if such a service is used, and three days
after the date of deposit in the mail if mailed.

      Section 13.      General Provisions. The following provisions also are integral parts of this
Agreement:

               13. l. Survival. The respective obligations of the Parties hereunder and all
representations and wananties made in this Agreement, all exhibits hereto, and all certificates and
documents delivered pursuant hereto, will survive the execution and delivery of the Lease and the
other documents and agreements, and any closing(s), contemplated in this Agreement.

                13.2. Binding Agreement. This Agreement will be binding upon and will inure to
the benefit of the successors and assigns of the respective parties hereto.

              13.3. Captions. The headings used in this Agreement are inserted for reference
purposes only and will not be deemed to define, limit, extend, describe, or affect in any way the
meaning, scope or interpretation of any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement or the intent
hereof.

               13.4. Counterparts: Electronic Deliverv. This Agreement may be signed in any
number of counterparts with the same effect as if the signatures upon any counterpart were upon
the same instrument. All signed counterparts will be deemed to be one original. This Agreement
may be executed and delivered electronically by facsimile, pdf, or similar transmission with the
same legal effect as manual execution and physical delivery.

              13.5. Severability. The provisions of this Agreement are severable, and should
any provision hereof be void, voidable, unenforceable or invalid, such void, voidable,
unenforceable or invalid provision will not affect the other provisions of this Agreement.

              13 .6. Waiver of Breach. Any waiver by either party of any breach of any kind or
character whatsoever by the other, whether such be direct or implied, will not be construed as a
continuing waiver of, or consent to, any subsequent breach of this Agreement.

                13.7. Cumulative Remedies. The rights and remedies of the parties hereto will be
construed cumulatively, and none of such rights and remedies will be exclusive of, or in lieu or
limitation of, any other right, remedy or priority allowed by law.

                13.8. Amendment. This Agreement may not be modified except by an instrument
in writing signed by the parties hereto.

               13.9. Interpretation . This Agreement will be interpreted, constmed and enforced
according to the substantive laws of the state of Utah.

               13.10. Notice. All notices provided for herein will be in writing and will be given
                                                  16
by first class mail, certified or registered, postage prepaid, addressed to the parties at their
respective addresses set forth above or at such other address(es) as may be designated by a party
from time to time in writing.

               13.11. Expenses. Each of the Parties will be responsible for all its own costs and
expenses incurred at any time in connection with this Agreement, including expenses of its
advisors, agents, attorneys and other representatives.

                13.12. Brokers. Landlord represents and warrants to Tenant that no broker or
finder acted for it or is entitled to any fee or commission in respect of the transactions contemplated
hereby. Landlord will indemnify and hold Tenant hannless in respect of any breach of the
foregoing representation and warranty. Similarly, Tenant represents and wan-ants to Landlord that
no broker or finder acted for Tenant or is entitled to any fee or commission in respect of the
transactions contemplated hereby. Tenant will indemnify and hold Landlord hannless in respect
of any breach of the foregoing representation and wan-anty.

                13.13. Time o{Essence. Time is the essence of this Agreement.

                13.14. Assignment. Except as otherwise specified herein, Tenant will not assign its
rights or delegate its duties hereunder to any third party without Landlord' s prior written consent,
which Landlord may withhold in its sole, absolute discretion. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
Tenant shall have the right to assign this Agreement upon written notice to Landlord (i) to any
entity controlled by, under common control with, or managed by Tenant, or (ii) to any entity
relating to any joint venture, all without having to obtain the prior consent of Landlord, provided
such entity assumes Tenant's obligations under this Agreement and Tenant provides Landlord
written notice of such assignment (each of the aforementioned assignees a "Permitted Assignee" ).
In all events, whether or not Landlord has consented to an assignment, the original named Tenant
shall remain liable for the full and timely perfonnance of Tenant's obligations tmder this
Agreement.

                 13.15. Attornevs' Fees. If there is any litigation bet\veen Landlord and Tenant to
enforce or interpret any provisio11s or rights under this Agreement, the unsuccessful party in such
litigation, as determined by the court, shall pay to the successful party, as detem1ined by the court,
reasonable costs and expenses, including but not limited to reasonable attorneys' fees, incurred by
the successful party, such costs, expenses and attorneys' fees to be detennined by the court sitting
without a jury.

                13.16. Authorization. Each individual executing this Agreement does thereby
represent and warrant to any other individual so signing (and to each other entity for which another
individual is signing) that the individual has been duly authorized to deliver this Agreement in the
capacity and for the entity that is set forth where he signs.


                                  [Signatures on Following Page]




                                                  17
     DATED effective the date first written above.

                                         LANDLORD:

                                         COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS COMMUNITY
ATTEST:                                  DEVELOPMENT AND RENEWAL AGENCY


By: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __                   By:
                                               ----------------
    Tiffany Janzen, Secretary                  Jared Gerber, Executive Director


                                         By:
                                               - - --------------
                                               Mich ael T. \Veiche1·s, Board Chair


                                         TENANT:

                                         TBD~LLG


                                         By:
                                               - -- - - - - - - - - - - -
                                               - - - - - - -, its Manager




                                            18
                                    Exhibit "A" to
                                  Agreement to Lease
The Site and the Walgreens Parcel consist of the following improved realty located in Salt Lake
Cmmty. The Site also is shown outlined in yellow on the site plan that is attached to this Agreement
as Exhibit "B," with the Walgreens Parcel also shown abutting the Site.

Site:

Lot l , HILLSIDE PLAZA SUBDIVISION, according to the official plat thereof, on file and of
record in the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder, State of Utah.

Together with the nonexclusive easements for ingress and egress by vehicular and pedestrian
traffic and for vehicular parking, as created, defined and described pursuant to the provisions of
that certain Declaration of Restrictions and Reciprocal Easements, recorded August 26, 1976, as
Entry No. 2849657, in Book 4315 at Page 174, of the Official Records, and any amendments
thereto.

Also together with the nonexclusive easements for vehicular ingress and egress, vehicular parking,
pedestrian access, and existing underground utilities, as created, defined and described pursuant to
the provisions of that certain Declaration of Covenants, Easements, and Restrictions, recorded
August l , 2006, as Entry No. 9798315, in Book 9329 at Page 7274, of the Official Records, and
any amendments thereto.

Tax ID Nos.: 22-27-201-029, 22-27-201-030, 22-27-201-03 l , 22-27-201-032, 22-27-201-033 and
22-27-201-034

Walgreens Parcel:

Lot 2, HILLSIDE PLAZA SUBDIVISION, according to the official plat thereof, on file and of
record in the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder, State of Utah.

Together with the nonexclusive easements for ingress and egress by vehicular and pedestrian
traffic and for vehicular parking, as created, defined and described pursuant to the provisions of
that certain Declaration of Restrictions and Reciprocal Easements, recorded August 26, 1976, as
Entry No. 2849657, in Book 4315 at Page 174, of the Official Records, and any amendments
thereto.

Also together with the nonexclusive easements for vehicular ingress and egress, vehicular parking,
pedestrian access, and existing tmderground utilities, as created, defined and described pursuant to
the provisions of that certain Declaration of Covenants, Easements, and Restrictions, recorded
August l , 2006, as Entry No. 9798315, in Book 9329 at Page 7274, of the Official Records, and
any amendments thereto.

Tax ID No.: 22-27-201-035



                                                 19
  Exhibit "B" to
Agreement to Lease




        20
  Exhibit "C" to
Agreement to Lease

(Insert Copy of Ground Lease)




             21
                   ~    ~     --J -~
                                 '( I) l '',   I


                        Cottonwood Heights
                        City !Htu~m 1hr raTtyo,u




       CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING

                       Attachment 1
                Proclamation 2025-03
Designating October 2025 as "Utah PTA Centennial Month"
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                   PROCLAMATION 2025-03

                    A PROCLAMATION DESIGNATING OCTOBER 2025
                   AS UTAH PTA CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION MONTH

        WHEREAS, the Utah Parent Teacher Association ("Utah PTA") has led locally,
regionally, and nationally in supporting family engagement and advocating on behalf of all
children and families, and this centennial year provides an opportunity to reflect on its many
accomplishments and celebrate 100 years as a powerful voice for children, a trusted resource for
parents, and a strong advocate for public education; and

        WHEREAS, Utah PTA has been instrumental in establishing programs and services that
improve children's lives, including-but not limited to-defending public education and ensuring
stable funding by opposing voucher efforts, advancing parent and family engagement, creating
kindergarten with full day options, promoting child-labor laws and public-health services,
supporting hot-and-healthy lunch programs, strengthening the juvenile-justice system, protecting
and ensuring growth of Public Trust Lands that benefit Utah school children, promoting arts in
education, and championing school safety; and

        WHEREAS, the founders of the Parent Teach,e r Association, Phoebe Apperson Hearst and
Alice McLellan Birney, together with Selena Sloan Butler, founder of Georgia's Congress of
Colored Parents and Teachers, were visionary women of imagination and courage who broke
through the barriers of their time to improve the lives of children and families, leaving a legacy
that continues to inspire action today; and

        WHEREAS, these remarkable leaders shared a simple yet profound idea-to improve the
lives and futures of all children; and though our nation has changed, that vision endures as PTAs
continue to keep it alive; and

        WHEREAS, founded in Washington, D.C., as the National Congress of Mothers, the
Parent Teacher Association marked its 128th anniversary on February 17, 2025, and since its
inception in 1897 the organization has steadfastly advocated for the education, health, safety, and
well-being of all children, earning the appreciation and recognition of the public; and

       WHEREAS, in October 1925, at the annual convention of the Utah Education Association,
Margaretta Reeves, President of the National Congress of Parents and Teachers, officially invited
the Utah Mother's Congress to join the national organization; and

      WHEREAS, accepting this invitation, Utah became the Utah Congress of Parents and
Teachers, with Lucille Young Reid as its first President-marking a new era of parent and family
engagement in Utah; and

        WHEREAS, today Utah PTA is the largest volunteer child-advocacy organization in Utah,
uniting parents, caregivers, grandparents, educators, and other caring adults in a shared mission to
make every child's potential a reality; and

     WHEREAS, for a century Utah PT A has left a lasting impact on schools, families, and
communities across the state by fostering leadership, empowering voices, and ensuring that
generations of children have benefited from stronger educational opportunities, healthier
environments, and a greater sense of belonging;

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT PROCLAIMED by the Cottonwood Heights city council
and manager that the city hereby proclaim October 2025 as Utah PTA Centennial Celebration
Month, and encourages all city residents to join in celebrating this milestone and to support family
and parent engagement in Utah's education system by joining a local PTA or PTSA in
reaffirmation of the commitment to Make Every Child's Potential a Reality.

        DATED this 21 st day of October 2025.


 Mayor Michael Weichers _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ __

 Council Member Matt Holton
                                - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - -- - - -
 Council Member Suzanne Hyland
                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- -- - - -- -
 Council Member Shawn Newell
                                  - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -- -- - - -
 Com1cil Member Ellen Birrell
                                - - -- - - - -- - - - - - - -- -- - - - - -
 City Manager Jared Gerber _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
                                   ( ~,

                          Cottonwood Heights
                          Ciry '"'""'m 1hr c.myom




                        Attachment 2
                        Ordinance 439
This ordinance will enact several amendments to Title 19 of the
city's code of ordinances concerning catering service businesses
     in the 0-R-D zone and open-air accessory structures, as
         recommended by the city's planning commission.
Date: October 21, 2025

Re: Consideration of a Zoning Text Amendment to §19.04 and §19.76.030, Regarding Standards for Open-Air
         Accessory Structures in Residential Zones.
                                                            l' )•.:•jf. -   cf"'·-·~ • ,.,:.:
                                                                                                                                                                                        - . -.,,.,:;-
                                                                                                                                                                                               -..r ~ ~~;
                                                                     1
                                                                                                                         ~••                       ~          I ....~ f        ••• -.,t                      ~~l~
 ' ;,, ,', ;.\: ~">· ··.i:..         .,...... ,. • )" ,                                                                                                                                                                                   1

                                                  _,.J·,•c•' •'.i': ,'i'fc\s ~1,.,.,. ,,_,'!- , '· ~§:'•,"'-ij'·~--~-
                                                                                                                             ,i .,                                     t ,'
t
    ..-.'   ·-   '   •   '             r
                             '. : ..,,r.,-;,         1'   \   ...          l ', 1 •   '   .-· J" -   .... i ., .... .,,~-~
                                                                                                                   .. ,,.,, '•J~}~'"•'-: -1, ...,,-~;,. ' ~"•/s~-"•~- -~~-;-'
                                                                                                                               ·••/}t•~, • '   •       .-~'
                                                                                                                                                                          1   ~~
                                                                                                                                                                              ,.., ·~   l"' .._: '1 {. -~-
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ' ~       1·J1'   .,, •   ...       1,-~\' •• ~ j

l i:~ •.:.: _;.:,,.~!-<}.;;1_~i '\.:::.:~#~;~*:.;•::U~j,r~ ~fil.~.:riU~d,.~1'°:J±f~, :tx1.~~•iSt'. ·~- ~N ~ ~c'f).:X~fo~.•:'1.                          ~,~~ J~"j
                                                                                                                                                              !~             '               ~ ~

Meeting Requested:                                                        Business Meet ing IZl Work Sessi on □ Other □

Public Hearing Needed?                               Yes □ No ~ Undet ermined □

                                                     Deni~d □ Ap~roved ~ , . f led □
CM Approval or Denial
                                                     CM Signature: ~ _ _
                                                                                            ✓




REQUEST
This is a city-initiated request for a zoning text amendment to update Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code
§19.04 and §19.76.030, regarding building separation requirements for residential open-air accessory
structures.

BACKGROUND
The Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code's current wording requires a six-foot separation for al l structures,
which makes it difficult for residents to add outdoor features like gazebos and pergolas near their homes.
Following consultation with the Building and Fire Departments, city staff determined that open-air structures
(as defined in Exhibit A) do not pose the same fire and safety risks as enclosed buildings. City staff is
recommending a zoning code amendment to exempt open-air structures from the six-foot separation rule,
while still requiring them to be at least five feet from property lines. This amendment aims to provide
residents with more flexibility for outdoor features whi le maintaining essential safety standards.

On October 1, 2025, the Planning Commission held a public hearing and recommended APPROVAL with a 5-0
vote for the proposed text amendment request, as articulated in Exhibit A.

RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends the City Council approve the text amendment.
                                rA ,
                          Cottonwood Heights
                          Ciry lmuvm 1/,e mn:,vms




                        Attachment 3
                      Resolution 2025-69
By this resolution the council will approve the city's entry into
 an agreement whereunder GBS Benefits, Inc. will perform an
independent wage study/compensation survey for up to ten city
             staff positions as selected by the city.
                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                   RESOLUTION NO. 2025-69

                      A RESOLUTION APPROVING AN AGREEMENT
                  WITH GBS BENEFITS, INC. FOR CONSULTING SERVICES

        WHEREAS, the city council (the "Council") of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the
"City") met in regular session on 21 October 2025 to consider, among other things, approving a
Master Services Agreement and a Statement of Work (collectively, the "Agreement") with GBS
Benefits, Inc. ("Provider") whereunder Provider would provide consulting services to perform an
independent market price analysis (wage study, compensation survey) for up to ten City staff
positions (as selected by City) on the terms and conditions detailed in the Agreement; and

       'WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed the form of the Agreement, a photocopy of which
is annexed hereto; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in th:e best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to approve the City's entry into
the Agreement as proposed;

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Cottonwood Heights city council that
the attached Agreement is hereby approved, and that the City's mayor and recorder are authorized
and directed to execute and deliver the Agreement on behalf of the City.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2025-69, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

        PASSED AND APPROVED effective 21 October 2025.

ATTEST:                                         COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


                                                By _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ __ _
By:------------
 Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                          Michael T. Weichers, Mayor


                                                VOTING:

                                                Michael T. Weichers             Yea_Nay _
                                                Matt Holton                     Yea_Nay_
                                                Suzanne Hyland                  Yea_Nay_
                                                Shawn E. Newell                 Yea_Nay_
                                                Ellen Birrell                   Yea_Nay _

        DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 21 st day of October 2025.

        RECORDED this _ day of October 2025.
                                             ~<GBS
                                              A leaV1t1 Group (ompanv




                               EXHIBIT A: STATEMENT OF WORK


This Statement of Work is entered into as of the date of signature below ("Effective Date") by
and between GBS Benefits, Inc., a Utah corporation w ith offices at 2200 South Main Street, Suite
600, Salt Lake City, UT, 84115 ("GBS") and Cottonwood Heights, with offices at 2277 Bengal
Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121, (the "Client") pursuant to that certain GBS Master
Services Agreement by and between GBS and Client (the "Agreement"). This Statement of Work
is incorporated into the Agreement by reference. Any term not otherwise defined herein shall
have the meaning set forth in the Agreement.



DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES:

Consu lting Services, including the following:

1.       Provide Client with consulting services to perform an independent market price analysis
(i.e., wage study, compensation study) for 10 jobs/positions of the Client's choice-as outlined in
the associated Proposal document. Client will provide Consu ltant access to prior studies and
sa lary surveys for use in this ana lysis.

     •     Benchmarks wi ll be based on comparisons of j ob content as documented in job
           descriptions provided by Client.

     •     If Client requests additional jobs to be included in the study (i.e., more than 10), the
           consulting fee will be increased proportionately.

2. Gain an understanding of Client's compensation philosophy, structures, programs, and
     practices as a basis for conducting the study.

3. Prepare, document, and share recommendations with Client stakeholders based on study
     findings and current market trends.

Consulting services beyond the scope of this document are available upon request. Any
additional services and associated fees outside of this scope will be agreed upon in writing.



Timeline:

GBS estimates a project timeline of approximately eight weeks from kick-off to completion.
Further delineation of milestones and timelines wi ll be agreed upon at the commencement of
services.




                                                            1
                                         ~<GBS
                                            A Leav1tr Grouo Company




COMPENSATION & BILLING:

Compensation:

For services performed pursuant to this SOW, the Consultant will be compensated by the Client
as follows:

              Compensation Study:                                       $12,500

              Benefit Plan Benchmarking:                                $ 3,500

              Estimated Consulting Fee:                                 $16,000



Consulting fees are based on the time, materials, and resources used to complete the work
identified herein. If add itional costs are expected (e.g., travel expenses), Consultant will request
permission in writing from the Client in advance.



Billing:

Client will be invoiced for 30% of estimated fee upon project kick-off. The remainder will be
invoiced upon project completion.



EXECUTION:

The parties have executed this Statement of Work below to indicate their acceptance of its
terms.

GBS Benefits, Inc., a Utah corporation

GBS                                                            Client

Name:           Matt Kiisel                                    Name:

Title:          coo                                            Title:


Signature:      m~1c~                                          Signature:


Date:           10/06/2025                                     Date:




                                                         z
~<GBS


Master Services
Agreement
Prepared for

Cottonwood Heights
                           GBS Master Services Agreement

This Agreement ("Agreement") is effective as of the date of signature (" Effective Date") by and
between GBS Benefits, Inc. (together with its affiliates "GBS"), located at 2200 South Main Street,
Suite 600, Salt Lake City, UT, 84115, and CLIENT, Cottonwood Heights, located at 2277 Bengal
Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121 ("CU ENT"). (CLIENT and GBS are sometimes hereinafter
referred to collectively as the "Parties" and individually as a "Party.")

WHEREAS,_CLIENT desires to retain GBS to perform services identified in this Agreement and any
corresponding statement of work ("SOW"), and GBS understands that it is intended that this
Agreement will apply to all work or services to be performed by GBS unless otherwise agreed
upon between the Parties in writing;

NOW THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of w hich is
hereby acknowledged, the Parties agree to the terms and conditions set forth herein.




ARTICLE 1. SERVICES AND SCOPE OF AGREEMENT.

A.      CLIENT desires to obtain from GBS, and GBS desires to provide to CLIENT, certain services
and deliverables hereinafter defined (collectively "Services") described in any attached SOW. Each
SOW attached is incorporated by reference. In the event GBS agrees to perfo rm multiple services
for CLIENT, a new SOW will be created for each service for which GBS is retained.

B.      At any time during the term of this Agreement, either Party may request modifications to
the Services identified in an SOW. As soon as practicable following such request, the Parties will
discuss the feasibility of the requested modifications and the impact on the time schedu les and
costs specified in the SOW. No change in the SOW shall be made unless agreed to in writing by
both parties, and absent such written agreement, both parties will remain bound by the original
terms. No modification or amendment to this Agreement or any SOW can alter the provisions of
this Agreement regarding the ownership of intellectual property unless signed by an officer of
each party.

ARTICLE 2. COMPENSAT ION.

A.      CU ENT will pay GBS for satisfactory performance of the Services based on the agreed
pricing schedule as described in the SOW for the Services. For the purpose of this Agreement,
GBS fees from CLIENT for the Services ("GBS Fees") may be earned by GBS by providing the
Services, completed and expensed as described in Article 3.

B.      A SOW includes all applicable GBS Fees that shall be paid by CLIENT and is firm and fixed
and at no time will GBS charge higher or additional GBS Fees. GBS Fees are inclusive of any and



                                                   1
all government fees and or applicable taxes. In no event wi ll CLIENT be obligated to make payment
for any Services performed by GBS which are outside the scope of a SOW, or for: 1) any Services
which GBS agreed to perform but did not complete, or 2) any Services performed by GBS after
the termination or expiration of this Agreement

C.     Unless otherwise stated in a SOW, during the term of this Agreement, GBS will submit to
CLIENT one (1) invoice per month listing the GBS Fees earned for Services delivered in the previous
month. All invoices wi ll be sent via electronic mail to the CLIENT, and will be accompanied by
appropriate supporting documentation, evidencing the work completed by GBS during the
calendar month for which GBS seeks payment. CLIENT will review each invoice and its supporting
documentation and, unless disputed by CLIENT, pay the amount set forth in each such invoice
within fifteen (15) days after CLIENT's receipt of the invoice. GBS acknowledges and agrees that
CLIENT is not responsible for payment delays associated with invoices that violate this Agreement.
Billing disputes will not be a cause of non-performance under this Agreement or applicable SOW.

D.     GBS agrees that the payments described above are full and complete compensation
expected from CLIENT for all Services performed under this Agreement.

ARTICLE 3. EXPENSES.

GBS will be solely responsible for any and all expenses it incurs in association with the performance
of the Services, unless otherwise expressly provided for in the applicable SOW(s). Upon request
of CLIENT, GBS shall provide supporting documentation for all expenses specifically allowed to be
reimbursed by CLIENT under the applicable SOW(s).

ARTICLE 4. TERM AND TERMINATION.

A.     The term of this Agreement ("Term") will begin on the Effective Date and will continue until
the services provided by GBS outlined in this Agreement and any corresponding SOW are
completed as set forth in the terms therein.

B.     CLIENT may terminate this Agreement immediately, in whole or in part, upon written
notice to GBS without cause or reason and without any further liability, obligation or responsibility
hereunder to GBS or any third party under this Agreement. However, CLIENT will be responsible
for expenses incurred prior to termination within the terms and conditions provided for herein, or
fees ultimately payable with respect to Services rendered prior to termination. Payment to GBS
for the Services shall be in accordance with the terms set forth in a SOW.

C.     GBS may terminate this Agreement immediately, in whole or in part, upon written notice
to CLIENT without cause or reason and without any further liability, obligation or responsibility
hereunder to CLIENT or any third party under this Agreement. However, GBS will be responsib le
to complete the work defined in a SOW that was delivered and accepted prior to the notice of



                                                  2
termination, subject to CLIENT's obligation to pay for Services rendered under such a SOW.

D.      Upon termination or expiration of this Agreement or the Services hereunder, or at any
other time at CLIENT's request, GBS will immediately deliver to CLIENT all property belonging to
CLIENT, any property or work in progress developed in connection with this Agreement, and all
materials containing or constituting Confidential Information, including any copies, whether
prepared by GBS or others.

ARTICLE 5. PLACE OF PERFORMANCE.

GBS will work primarily from its own office facilities, at CLIENT's office location, or a mutually
approved location solely for use in performance of Services hereunder. The location shall be
specified in the SOW.

ARTICLE 6. CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.

GBS acknowledges that in the course of performing Services, GBS will have access to and become
familiar with various trade secrets and confidential information of CLIENT, and/or third parties
who have provided such information to CLIENT, including, but not limited to, software, customer
contracts, customer lists, customer prospect lists, invoices, customer requirements, sales
procedures, research data, design data, marketing and pricing information and data, marketing
plans, financial information of CLIENT and/or its customers, and other technical, marketing and/ or
business information and personal data relating to individuals (collectively, "Confidential
Information"). GBS acknowledges that this Confidential Information gives CLIENT a competitive
advantage in the industry. GBS agrees to not use in any way or disclose to any person or entity
any such Confidential Information, either directly or indirectly, either during the term of this
Agreement or at any time thereafter, except as requi red in the course of performing Services
under t his Agreement. GBS will further take reasonable precautions and act in such a manner as
to ensure against unauthorized disclosure or use of the Confidential Information, using at least
the standard of care GBS uses to protect its own confidential information. Upon termination or
expiration of this Agreement, or earlier if requested by CLIENT, GBS will deliver all such
Confidential Information and any copies of the same to CLIENT. GBS acknowledges and agrees
that CLIENT would suffer irreparable harm in the event the Confidential Information or any portion
thereof was disclosed, copied or used in any manner except as provided in this Agreement.
Accordingly, and notwithstanding Article 13, Section G (Governing Law/ Jurisdiction and Venue),
in the event of a breach or threatened breach of the provisions of this Article 6, GBS agrees that
CLIENT wi ll be entitled to pursue any and all remedies at law or in equity, including, but not limited
to, a temporary restraining order or preliminary or permanent injunction, or the equivalent of the
same, without requirement of a bond, to prevent disclosure, copying and/or use of the
Confidential Information.



                                                  3
ARTICLE 7. CLIENT'S OBLIGATION TO PROVIDE INFORMATION.

In order for GBS to execute its functions under a SOW, CLIENT agrees it is responsible to deliver
to GBS accurate and complete information as described and defined in the applicable SOW.
CLIENT acknowledges and agrees that failure of CLIENT to promptly supply the comp lete and
accurate information described above or otherwise reasonably requested by GBS, will absolutely
preclude GBS from fully and promptly performing its obligations under the applicable SOW, and
GBS will not be liable for consequences, direct or indirect, in connection with the failure to timely
supply complete and/or accurate information.

GBS will use ordinary care and due diligence in the exercise of its power and in the performance
of its responsibilities. GBS shall not be liable under this Agreement unless its actions are grossly
negligent or in willful and wanton disregard of its explicit duties under this Agreement. The parties
further acknowledge and agree that GBS wil l not be deemed to be providing legal or tax advice
to CLIENT as a result of the duties undertaken by GBS pursuant to this Agreement.

ARTICLE 8. INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR STATUS.

It is understood and agreed that GBS wil l provide the Services under this Agreement on a
professional basis and as an independent contractor and that during the performance of the
Services under this Agreement, GBS will not be considered an employee of CLIENT within the
meaning or the applications of any federal, county, state or local laws or regulations including,
but not limited to, laws or regulations covering unemployment insurance, old age benefits,
worker's compensation, industrial accident, labor or taxes of any kind. GBS, and any of its
employees, or contractors shal l not be entitled to benefits that may be afforded from time to time
to CLIENT's employees, including without limitation, vacation, holidays, sick leave, worker's
compensation and unemployment insurance. Further, CLIENT shall not be responsible for
withholding or paying any taxes or social security on behalf of GBS, or any of its employees, or
contractors.

ARTICLE 9. WARRANTIES AND REPRESENTATIONS.

GBS hereby represents, warrants and covenants to CLIENT that:

A.     GBS is not restricted in any way, by agreement or otherwise from entering into this
Agreement and providing the Services, and that it has no interests or obligations, nor during the
term hereof will it acquire any interests or obligations, which conflict with or hamper its ability to
perform as required hereby.

B.     GBS will not breach any agreement or other obligation to keep in confidence or refrain
from using, the confidential, proprietary, or trade secret information of a former employer, another
client or any other person, and wi ll not use any such in formation in connection with the Services.




                                                  4
C.     GBS will perform the Services in a professional manner and otherwise in accordance with
the highest industry standards and all such work shall conform to the specifications and all other
requirements hereunder and under the SOW. GBS shall correct any error, defect or non-
conformance at no additional cost to CLIENT. This warranty is in addition to any warranty that
may be implied or imposed by operation of law.

D.     GBS warrants and represents that GBS shall comply with all applicable laws and
professional obligations.

E.     The parties agree that the foregoing representations, warranties, and covena nts are
material, made by GBS to induce CLIENT to enter into this Agreement, and relied upon by CLIENT
in deciding to enter into this Agreement. The foregoing representations and warranties will survive
expiration or termination of this Agreement for any reason.

ARTICLE 10. TRADEMARK AND TRADE NAME.

This Agreement does not give either Party any ownership license rights or interest in the other
Party's trade name or trademarks.

ARTICLE 11. INDEMNIFICATION.

A.     GBS, at its own expense, shall indemnify, defend and hold CLIENT, its partners, employees,
agents, affiliates, designees and assignees harmless from and against any and all suits, causes of
action, proceedings, loss, damage, liability or expense, including defense costs and legal fees, and
claims of any nature, including but not limited to, damage to property and personal injuries,
including death, arising out of, resulting from, or relating to any negligent act or omission of GBS
relating to the performance of this Agreement or from any breach of this Agreement by GBS. GBS,
at its expense, shall defend any suit or dispose of any claim or other proceeding brought against
said indemnities on account of such damage or injury, and shall pay all expenses, including
attorney's fees, and satisfy all judgments which may be incurred by or rendered against said
indemnities.

B.     CLIENT, at its own expense, shall indemnify, defend and hold GBS, its partners, employees,
agents, affiliates, designees and assignees harmless from and against any and all suits, causes of
action, proceedings, loss, damage, liability or expense, including defense costs and legal fees, and
claims of any nature, including but not limited to, damage to property and personal injuries,
including death, arising out of, resulting from, or relating to any negligent act or omission of
CLIENT relating to the performance of this Agreement or from any breach of this Agreement by
CLIENT, including, but not limited to, the failure of CLIENT to deliver to GBS complete and accurate
information as described in Article 7 of this Agreement. CLIENT, at its expense, shall defend any
suit or dispose of any claim or other proceeding brought against said indemnities on account of




                                                 5
such damage or injury, and shall pay all expenses, including attorney's fees, and satisfy all
judgments which may be incurred by or rendered against said indemnities.

ARTICLE 12. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.

Except for any amount recoverable by GBS or client pursuant to the indemnification or breach of
confidentiality provisions of this agreement, in no event shall either party be, or become li able for:
lost profits, lost savings, or other consequential, incidental, special or indirect damages regardless
of whether such party has been advised of the possibility of such damages occurring.

The aggregate liability of GBS to client for any cause of action or claim (whether under contract
or tort) shall be limited to the amounts payable to GBS hereunder with respect to the services that
are the subject of such action or claim. Both parties agree that this agreement, including without
limitation the charges to be paid by client hereunder and the limitations set forth in this section,
reflect the allocation of risk understood and agreed upon by the parties, including the risk that a
remedy may fail of its essential purpose.

ARTICLE 13. GENERAL PROVISIONS.

A.      Entire Agreement. This Agreement represents the entire and sole agreement between the
Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes any and all prior negotiations,
understandings, representations or consulting agreements whether written or oral. Except as
specifically provided for in this Agreement, in the event a SOW contains terms that attempt to
modify the provisions of this Agreement, those terms shall be deemed to have no force or effect
and are not binding on CLIENT. This Agreement cannot be modified, changed or amended, except
for in writing signed by the Parties.

B.      Waiver. The failure of either Party to require performance by the other of any provision
hereof shall in no way affect the right to require performance at any time thereafter, nor shall the
waiver of a breach of any provision hereof be taken to be a waiver of any succeeding breach of
such provision or as a waiver of the provision itself. All remedies afforded in this Agreement shall
be taken and construed as cumulative; that is, in addition to every other remedy available at law
or in equity.

C.      Relationship. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to imply a joint ventu re,
partnership or principal-agent relationship between GBS and CLIENT, and neither Party shall have
the right, power or authority to obligate or bind the other in any manner whatsoever, except as
otherwise agreed to in writing.

D.      Assignment, Delegation and Subcontracting. Neither Party shall assign or delegate this
Agreement or any rights, duties or obligations hereunder without the express written consent of
the other Party. Subject to the foregoing, this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be




                                                   6
binding upon the successors, legal representatives and assignees of the Parties hereto.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, CLIENT may assign this Agreement to any
affiliate without consent.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, GBS may subcontract a portion (but not all) of its rights or
obligations under this Agreement to another person or entity, provided that (1) GBS shall have
given CLIENT prior written notice of any proposed subcontract in sufficient detail and CLIENT shall
not have objected to the subcontract on reasonable grounds within fourteen (14 days) following
receipt thereof, and (2) GBS remains fully responsible for the performance of any subcontracting
hereunder.

E.      Severability. If any provision of this Agreement is declared invalid or unenforceab le, such
provision shall be deemed modified to the extent necessary and possible to render it va lid and
enforceable. In any event, the unenforceability or invalidity of any provision shall not affect any
other provision of this Agreement, and this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, and
be construed and enforced, as if such provision had not been included, or had been modified as
above provided, as the case may be.

F.      Notices. Any notices, payments or statements to be provided under this Agreement will
be sent to GBS and to CLIENT at the addresses provided in the Preamble to this Agreement or to
such other address as one Party may from time to time designate in writing to the other. Any
notice required to be made or given to either Party hereto will be made by personal delivery,
confirmed facsimile, overnight courier with traceable delivery, certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, postage prepaid.

G.      Governing Law/Arbitration. This Agreement and any dispute arising out of or in connection
with or related to this Agreement ("Dispute") will be governed as to all matters, including, but not
limited to the validity, construction and performance of this Agreement, by and under the laws of
the State of Utah, United States of America, without giving effect to conflicts of law principles
thereof. The jurisdiction and venue of any proceeding involving any Dispute shall be the federal
or state courts located in Salt Lake County, Utah.

H.      Laws and Regulations. GBS shall comply with all applicable laws and governmental
regulations. GBS is not expected or authorized to take any action in the name of or otherwise on
behalf, of CLIENT which would violate applicable laws or governmental regulations.

I.      Paragraph Headings. The paragraph headings set forth in this Agreement are for the
convenience of the Parties, and in no way define, limit, or describe the scope or intent of this
Agreement and are to be given no legal effect.

J.      Injunctive Relief. Each of the Parties acknowledges that any dispute or material breach of
this Agreement may cause the other Party immediate and irreparable injury not adequately



                                                  7
compensable in damages alone. Therefore, the provisions of this dispute resolution section shall
not preclude either Party from seeking immediate preliminary, temporary or permanent injunctive
relief in addition to liquidated damages and all other avai lable remedies in law or in equity w ithout
the need to first exhaust the dispute escalation procedures set forth therein.



IN W ITNESS WHEREOF, undersigned authorized representatives of the Parties have executed and
made this Agreement to be effective as of the Effective Date.



GBS                                                    CLIENT


Name:          Matt Kiisel                             Name:

Title:        coo                                      Title:


Signature:    1n~1c~                                   Signature:


Date:          10/06/2025                              Date:




                                                   8
