COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING AGENDA
October 1, 2025


Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission will convene on Wednesday,
October 1, 2025, at Cottonwood Heights City Hall (2277 E. Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121) for its
Work Session and Business Session meetings.

   1. Work Session – 5:00 p.m. – City Council Work Room
   2. Business Session – 6:00 p.m. – City Council Chambers

Both sessions will also be broadcast electronically on the city’s YouTube channel at
https://www.youtube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams.
Please see the reverse side of this agenda for instructions on how to make public comment.

5:00 p.m. Work Session
       1.0 Review Business Session Agenda
       The commission will review and discuss agenda items.

       2.0 Review and Discussion of General Plan Update

       3.0 Adjourn

6:00 p.m. Business Session
       1.0 Welcome and Acknowledgements
              1.1 Ex parte communications or conflicts of interest to disclose

       2.0 General Public Comment
       This is an opportunity for individuals to make general public comments that do not relate to any projects
       scheduled for public hearing under the “Business Items” section of this agenda. Please see the Public
       Comment Policy on the reverse side of this agenda for more information.

       3.0 Business Items
              3.1 Planning Commission Chair and Vice Chair Elections
              This item constitutes the annual election of a planning commission chairperson and vice
              chairperson. The terms of these individuals shall be one year, and selected individuals shall not hold
              the position for more than two consecutive terms.

               3.2 Project ZTA-25-002
               A public hearing and potential action on a staff-initiated Zoning Text Amendment to allow catering
               services as a conditional use in the O-R-D zone, limited to off-site food preparation and service and
               not as a retail restaurant.

               3.3 Project ZTA-25-003
               A public hearing and potential action on a staff-initiated Zoning Text Amendment to define 'open
               structures' (e.g., gazebos, pergolas, trellises) and clarify setback, coverage, height, and separation
               requirements for accessory buildings in residential zones.

       4.0 Consent Agenda
                4.1 Approval of September 3, 2025 Planning Commission Minutes

        5.0 Adjourn
        Next Planning Commission Meeting: October 15, 2025

Public Comment
Individuals may provide public comments verbally or via writing.

Verbal comments are accepted in person at the 6:00 p.m. Business Session, but not at the 5:00 p.m. Work
Session. At the Business Session, public comments may be given during two intervals:
   1. General Public Comment Period – An opportunity for general comments not relating to specific projects on
       the meeting agenda.
   2. Specific Project Public Hearings – An opportunity for comments relating to specific projects on the meeting
       agenda which were noticed as public hearings.

Please note that verbal comments must be provided by attending the meetings in-person. Verbal comments
cannot be provided via the electronic broadcast of planning commission meetings on the city’s YouTube channel.

Verbal comment periods are an opportunity for individuals to share comments as they see fit but are not an
opportunity for “question and answer” dialogue. Questions should be directed to city staff at
planning@ch.utah.gov. Verbal comments provided during the public comment period will be limited to three
minutes per individual, or five minutes per a spokesperson who has been asked by a group that is present to
summarize their concerns.

Alternatively, written comments may be submitted to staff via email at planning@ch.utah.gov. For written
comments to be entered into the record and distributed to the planning commission prior to the meeting, they
must be submitted to staff by 12:00 p.m. MST on Tuesday, September 30, 2025, the day prior to the meeting.
Comments received after this deadline will be distributed to the planning commission after the meeting.

Meeting Procedures
Items will generally be considered in the following order: 1. Chair introduction of item, 2. Staff presentation, 3.
Applicant presentation, if applicable, 4. Chair opens public hearing, if applicable, 5. Chair closes public hearing, if
applicable, 6. Planning commission deliberation, 7. Planning commission motion and vote on item.

Applications may be tabled if additional information is needed in order to act on the item; or if the planning
commission feels there are unresolved issues that may need further attention before the commission is ready
to make a motion. No agenda item will begin after 9:00 pm without a unanimous vote of the commission. The
commission may carry over agenda items, scheduled late in the evening and not heard, to the next regularly
scheduled meeting.

Notice of Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, individuals needing special accommodations or
assistance during this meeting shall notify the City Recorder at (801) 944-7015 at least 24 hours prior to the
meeting. TDD number is (801) 270-2425 or call Relay Utah at #711.

Confirmation of Public Notice
On Friday, September 19, 2025, a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the front
foyer of the Cottonwood Heights City Offices. The agenda was also posted on the City’s website at
www.cottonwoodheights.utah.gov and the Utah public notice website at http://pmn.utah.gov.

DATED THIS 19th DAY OF SEPTEMBER, ATTEST: TIFFANY JANZEN, CITY RECORDER
