Meeting Requested:       Business Meeting ~   Work Session ~   Other D
Public Hearing Needed?   Yes D No ~ Undetermined 0
                         Denied D Approved ~ Co,,r;itinued 0
CM Approval or Denial
                         CM Signature: ~



Appendix I - Agendas for November 18, 2025, City Council Work Session, CDRA, Board of
Canvassers and Business Meeting

Appendix 2 -Meeting Minutes for City Council Meetings on 10/21/2025

Appendix 3 - Staff Report/ WUI and Fireworks Maps Discussion Jim Spung

Appendix 4 - Chicken Coops Discussion Jim Spung

Appendix 5 - Staff Report/ Action Items Shane Topham


BOARD OF CANVASSERS MEETING
Attachment 1 - Declaration 2025-01

CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
Attachment 1 - Ordinance 449
Attachment 2 - Ordinance 450
Attachment 3 - Ordinance 451
Attachment 4 - Ordinance 452
Attachment 5 - Ordinance 453
Attachment 6 - Resolution 2025-70
Attachment 7 - Resolution 2025-71
                  ~   - 0-•I.J( ~             I


                       Cottonwood Heights
                       Cuy bnuvm 1/,e <tl/1)'0111




                      Appendix 1

                 November 18, 2025

City Council Work Session, CDRA, Board of Canvassers
            and Business Meeting Agendas
                NOTICE OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
                           WORKSESSION AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights City Council will hold a Work Session at
approximately 4:00 p.m., or soon thereafter, on Tuesday, November 18, 2025, in the Cottonwood
Heights City Council Work Room located at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood Heights, Utah.
The public may remotely view the open portions of the meeting through live broadcast by connecting to
https://www.voutube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams, the city's YouTube channel.

4:00 p.m.      1.     WELCOME - Mayor Mike Weichers

              2.      REVIEW OF BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA
                      Mayor Mike Weichers (10-15 min.)

              3.      STAFF REPORTS
                      (Each week the city council and staff provide informational reports as a method of
                      keeping up on the day-to-day activities ofthe city. This agenda item is set aside to allow
                      council members to ask questions or for staff to bring the council up to date regarding
                      any changes since the report was made).

                      a. Parks, Trails, and Open Space (PTOS) Committee Report
                          Committee Chair Chris Owens (20 mins.)
                      b. WUI and Fireworks Maps Discussion
                          Community and Economic Development Director Jim Spung and UFA Chief Riley
                          Pilgrim (30 mins.)
                      c. Chicken Coops Discussion
                          Community and Economic Development Director Jim Spung (20 mins.)

              4.      REVIEW OF CALENDARS AND UPCOMING EVENTS*

                      a. Winter Lobby Alts Display - Monday, November 17th to Monday, January
                         5th
                      b. Senior Social (Snowman Craft) - Wednesday, November 19th at I :30 p.m. at
                         City Hall.
                      c. Light the Heights - Monday, December 1st from 5:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. at
                         City Hall.
                      d. Christmas Concert with Eclipse 6 - Friday, December 5th from 7:30 p.m. to
                         9:00 p.m. at Butler Middle School (Tickets Required - Sold Out)

                     *For more information, please visit CH. UTAH.GOV and click Community Calendar
5.   POSSIBLE CLOSED MEETING TO DISCUSS LITIGATION,
     PURCHASE OR LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY, THE
     CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL COMPETENCE OR
     PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH OF AN INDIVIDUAL, OR
     ANY OTHER PERMITTED PURPOSE FOR CLOSED
     MEETINGS UNDER UTAH CODE ANN. 52-4-205 OR OTHER
     APPLICABLE LAW.

6.   ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION
                                                  -.......~tJ-~i ~'\              I


                                                           ottonwood Heights
                                                         City bet11Jeen rhe cn11yo11.s


                         NOTICE OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND
                         RENEWAL AGENCY WORK SESSION AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights Community Development and Renewal Agency will
hold a Business Meeting beginning at or about 5:30 p.m. on Tuesday, November 18, 2025, in the
Cottonwood Heights City Council Work Room located at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood
Heights, Utah. The public may remotely view the open portions of the meeting through live broadcast by
connecting to the city's YouTube channel: https://www.youtube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams.


         1.0      WELCOME-Chair Mike Weichers

         2.0      POSSIBLE CLOSED MEETING TO DISCUSS LITIGATION,
                  PURCHASE OR LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY, THE CHARACTER
                  AND PROFESSIONAL COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR
                  MENTAL HEALTH OF AN INDIVIDUAL, OR ANY OTHER
                  PERMITTED PURPOSE FOR CLOSED MEETINGS UNDER UTAH
                  CODE ANN. 52-4-205 OR OTHER APPLICABLE LAW.
         3.0      APPROVAL OF MINUTES.
                  The minutes of this meeting will be approved through the following process: The Agency's secretary
                  promptly will circulate a draft copy ofthe minutes to the Board members, who then will have three business
                  days to provide any proposed corrections to the secretary. The secretary will then circulate a revised draft
                  of the minutes to the Board members, and the same review process will continue until such time as no
                  corrections to the draft minutes are received within the three business days review period, whereupon that
                  draft ofthe minutes will be deemed approved and will become the final minutes of the meeting.

         4.0      ADJOURN

On Thursday, November 13, 2025, a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the front foyer of the
Cottonwood Heights City Offices, Cottonwood Heights, Utah. A copy of this notice was sent to the Salt Lake Tribune and
Deseret News, newspapers ofgeneral circulation in the city, by the Office of the City Recorder. The agenda was also posted on
the City's website at wvvw.ch.utah.gov and the Utah Public Notice website at lwp:/lp11111.L11a/i.go1·.

DATED this 13th day ofNovember 2025                                             Tiffany Janzen, Agency Secretary

The city building for this meeting is accessible. In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, people with disabilities
may make requests for reasonable accommodation or assistance by notifying the City Recorder at 801-944-7021 or
recordcr(a ch.11/a/i.go,·. at least two business days before the meeting, or by calling Relay Utah at 711.
                                               NOTICE OF MEETING
                                              BOARD OF CANVASSERS

Pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. 20A-4-301(2), notice is hereby given that the Board of Canvassers of
Cottonwood Heights will canvass the November election final returns during a public meeting, to be
held on Tuesday, November 18, 2025 at approximately 6:45 p.m. in the City Council Chambers located
at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood Heights, Utah.

          1. Call to Order

          2. Report Election Results for 2025 Municipal Election.

          3. Consideration of Declaration 2025-01 Approving the Canvass of the 2025 Municipal
             General Election.
             (By this resolution the city council sitting as the city's board of canvassers will approve the results
             of the 2025 municipal general election) .

          4. Adjourn

On Thursday, November 13th, a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the front foyer of the
Cottonwood Heights City Offices, Cottonwood Heights, Utah. A copy of this notice was sent to the Salt Lake Tribune and
Deseret News, newspapers ofgeneral circulation in the city, by the Office ofthe City Recorder. The agenda was also posted on
the City's website at www.ch.utah.gov and the Utah Public Notice website at llltp:l/p11111.utah.gar.

DATED this 13th day of November 2025                                      Tiffany Janzen, City Recorder

The city building/or this meeting is accessible. In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, people with disabilities
may make requests for reasonable accommodation or assistance by notifying the City Recorder at 801-944-7021 or
record<!r(a c:/1.uw'1.go1·. at least two business days before the meeting, or by calling Relay Utah at 711.
      but will not be read at the public meeting.

6.0   ACTION ITEMS
6.1   Consideration of Ordinance 449 Confinning and Ratifying the "Creek Road West"
      Annexation.
      (This ordinance will confirm and ratify the "Creek Road West" annexation effected by
      Ordinance 440 adopted on 20 May 2025).
6.2   Consideration of Ordinance 450 Amending Chapters 9.65 and 15.08 of the
      Cottonwood Heights Code of Ordinances and Adopting a Wildland Urban Interface
      Map.
      (In compliance with House Bill 48 enacted by the Utah Legislature, the ordinance will
      amend the city's code ofordinances to adopt the Utah Wild/and Urban Interface Code and
      adopt a wild/and urban interface map for the city).
6.3   Consideration of Ordinance 451 Approving a Second Driveway Exception at 3396
      East Antler Way.
      (Pursuant to Cottonwood Heights Code 14.12.150 this ordinance will grant an exception
      to Cottonwood Heights Code 14.12.11 0(B)(l) by approving a second driveway access to
      Antler Way).
6.4   Consideration of Ordinance 452 Approving a General Plan Amendment for .48
      Acre of Realty at 3425 East Bengal Blvd. from Neighborhood Commercial to
      Residential Medium Density.
      (This ordinance will approve amending the city's general plan to change the land use map
      designation of the referenced parcel of realty from Neighborhood Commercial to
      Residential Medium Density as recommended by the Planning Commission).
6.5   Consideration of Ordinance 453 Approving the Re-zone of .48 Acre of Real
      Property Located at 3425 East Bengal Blvd. from NC (Neighborhood Commercial)
      to RM (Residential Multi-Family) and Amending the Zoning Map.
      (This ordinance will approve rezoning the referenced parcel of realty from NC
      [Neighborhood Commercial] to RM [Residential Multi-Family] and will amend the zoning
      map accordingly. Approval of this ordinance will only be appropriate if Ordinance 452
      approving a general plan amendment for the subject realty is approved.
6.6   Consideration of Resolution 2025-70 Approving Amendment No. 2 to an
      Interlocal Cooperation Agreement with Salt Lake County for the Bonneville
      Shoreline Trail Alignment.
      (By this resolution the council will approve the city's entry into the second amendment to
      a 2019 interlocal agreement with Salt Lake County whereunder the city will be reimbursed
      up to $1.5 Million in transportation fimds for expenditures incurred in finalizing the
      Bonneville Shoreline Trail 's location and alignment, determining public access points and
      connectivity to other regional amenities, and certain related construction activities. The
      amendment extends the time for the city to complete such work until 31 December 2026).
6.7   Consideration of Resolution 2025-71 Approving a Cooperative Agreement with
      UDOT for Law Enforcement Resources in Connection with the Cottonwood
      Canyons.
      (By this resolution the council will approve the city's entry into an agreement with Utah
      Department of Transportation whereunder, in return for a payment of $180,000, the city
      will provide law enforcement resources to assist with parking enforcement, traction rule
      enforcement, and other duties in connection with the Cottonwood Canyons through 31
      October 2026).

7.0   CONSENTCALENDAR
7.1   Approval of the minutes for the City Council/Planning Commission Joint Work
      Session of October 21, 2025.
                  8.0      ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING

                                            PUBLIC COMMENT PROCEDURE
     During each City Council business meeting (specifically excluding work sessions), there will be a period not to
     exceed 60 minutes for citizen comment. (Code of Ordinances 2.30.160 (B)). Any person wishing to comment on
     any item not otherwise on the agenda for public comment may address the City Council during the Public Comment
     period. Any person wishing to comment during the Public Comment period shall request recognition by the Mayor
     and upon recognition, approach the microphone and state their name, state if they are a resident of Cottonwood
     Heights and either provide their address or their Council district; and then address the City Council. Any person
     wishing to comment shall limit their comments to no more than three (3) minutes unless more or less time is
     specified by the Mayor. Citizen groups who are present will be asked to appoint a spokesperson, who shall limit
     their comments to no more than five (5) minutes unless more or less time is specified by the Mayor. All comments
     shall be directed to the City Council. No person addressing the City Council during the comment period shall be
     allowed to comment more than once during that comment period. Speakers should not expect any debate or dialogue
     with the Mayor, City Council or City Staff during the meeting.
      The City Council may choose to limit the amount of time allotted to public comment on a specific issue. In such
      cases, special procedures for determining who will be allowed to speak and the order of such speakers will be
      determined by the Council. In the interest oftime and those attending the meeting live, submitted written comments
      will be entered into the record, distributed to the City Council but not read at the public meeting.


On Thursday, November 13, 2025, a copy of the foregoing notices was posted in conspicuous view in the front foyer of the
Cottonwood Heights City Offices, Cottonwood Heights, Utah. A copy ofthis notice was sent to the Salt Lake Tribune and Deseret
News, newspapers ofgeneral circulation in the city, by the Office of the City Recorder. The agendas were also posted on the
City's website at www.ch.utah.gov and the Utah Public Notice website at littp:l/pm11.u1ali.go,·.

DATED this 13th day of November 2025                                      Tiffany Janzen, City Recorder

The city building for this meeting is accessible. In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, people with disabilities
may make requests for reasonable accommodation or assistance by notifying the City Recorder at 801-944-7021 or
recorder(a c/1.wali.go,·. at least two business days before the meeting, or by calling Relay Utah at 71 1.
                      Cottonwood Heights
                      City bm,vm the r.myom




                      Appendix 2

                MEETING MINUTES
Joint Planning Commission/City Council Work Session and
             Business Meeting for 10/21/2025
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS JOINT PLANNING COMMISSION/
CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION HELD TUESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2025, AT 4:00 PM
IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL WORK ROOM LOCATED AT
2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD, COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

City Council Members Present:

                        Mayor Mike Weichers
                        Council Member Matt Holton
                        Council Member Ellen Birrell (via Zoom)
                        Council Member Suzanne Hyland
                        Council Member Shawn Newell

Planning Commission Members Present:

                        Lucy Anderson, Chair
                        Sean Steinman, Vice-Chair
                        Mike Shelton
                        Garry Barnes (via Zoom)
                        Dan Mills
                        Mike Smith
                        Rusty Lugo, Alternate

Staff Present:
                        Jared Gerber, City Manager
                        Shane Topham, City Attorney
                        Robby Russo, Police Chief
                        Scott Jurges, Finance Director
                        Barbara Higgins, Records, Culture, and Human Resources Director
                        Tiffany Janzen, City Recorder
                        Jim Spung, Community and Economic Development Director
                        Alex Earl, System Administrator
                        Matt Shipp, Public Works Director and City Engineer
                        Riley Pilgrim, Unified Fire Authority

1.0     WELCOME - Mayor Mike Weichers.

Mayor Weichers called the meeting to order at 4:00 PM.

2.0     CITY COUNCIL REVIEW OF BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA - Mayor Mike
        Weichers.

Mayor Weichers reviewed the Meeting Agenda and stated that the Pledge of Allegiance would be
led by City Manager, Jared Gerber, followed by a proclamation designating October 2025 as "Utah
PTA Centennial Month" , City Council Committee Rep011s, and the Citizen Comment Period. Item


Cottonwood Heights Joint Planning Commission/City Council Meeting Minutes for October 21, 2025   Approved:

                                                      1
6.0 would be the Landscape Awards. Quarterly Reports from the Cottonwood Heights Police
Department and Finance Department would be next.

Item 8.0 would include two legislative action items. Item 8.1 would be Consideration of Ordinance
439 Amending Title 19 of the City's Code of Ordinances. Mr. Gerber reported that the first
amendment would allow catering services in the O-R-D Zone. The second amendment would
change the setback requirements for open-air structures in all residential zones, as previously
discussed by the Council.

Item would be 8.2 Consideration of Resolution 2025-69 Approving a Consulting Agreement with
OBS Benefits, Inc. Mr. Gerber reported that the consultant would update the City's compensation
study, which is typically updated every three years to ensure that employee compensation is
competitive with other cities in the Salt Lake Valley.

The final agenda item would be approval of the Consent Calendar.

3.0     STAFF REPORT TO CITY COUNCIL AND PLANNING COMMISSION.

        3.1     General Plan Presentation and Discussion with City Council and Planning
                Commission. Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung.

Those present introduced themselves. Mayor Weichers thanked the Planning Commission for
their efforts.

Mayor Weichers reported that the General Plan update process began in 2019 but stalled during
COVID. Mayor Weichers, Council Member Newell, and Council Member Birrell were elected in
2022 and restarted the process, but it was again delayed. Since that time, Council Member Hyland
and Council Member Holton had been elected. The current City Council directed fonner
Comml!nity and Economic Development Director, Mike Johnson, to restart the process anew in
early 2025. The consultant then worked to create the draft General Plan.

Mayor Weichers received feedback from members of the City Council, Planning Commission, and
Staff that the document did not represent Cottonwood Heights; it was boilerplate and did not
consider how the current administration wanted to plan for growth in the City. Based on that
feedback, he had decided to restart the process and ensure that it remained a priority until the
update was completed. Doing so would give those involved the opportunity to be very specific
about what they would like to accomplish. He then asked everyone present to share their
comments on the draft plan and future direction.

Planning Commission Chair Steinman stated that the 2025 draft did not provide a good
understanding of what had been accomplished since the original 2005 General Plan. He believed
they should consider what had been accomplished from that plan and what they still wanted to
accomplish. He was also concerned about the prevalence of boilerplate language in the draft.

Chair Steinman was in favor of creating subcommittees for each section of the General Plan that
can drill down on things like necessary economic development related to population growth and

Cottonwood Heights Joint Planning Commission/City Council Meeting Minutes for October 21, 2025   Approved:

                                                      2
other changes since 2005. For example, the IKON pass has made Cottonwood Heights a much
different City. He also wanted to ensure that the General Plan includes detailed five, 15, and 20-
year goals and budgetary expectations for future City Councils to reference and implement. He
appreciated that the Transportation Master Plan includes budgets and areas of focus for specific
years, and he believed the remainder of the General Plan needed to include that type of
accountability. Citizen involvement was also key.

Council Member Holton stated that decisions made in the 2005 General Plan resulted in everyone
loving where they live, so it would be wise to use the original plan as a basis for the new one.
When he reviewed the draft and listened to comments from people who had been involved in the
process, he felt like the document was not specific to Cottonwood Heights. He agreed that
subcommittees should be created so the City can benefit from people's expertise in certain areas
and the end result would better reflect the spirit of the community.

Planning Commissioner Shelton believed it was easy to make the General Plan a type of state-of-
the-union address that lists aspirations, goals, and accomplishments, but the document actually has
a very important mission: It clarifies the City' s values and intentions to Planning Department staff,
landowners, and developers. People make investments based on what the General Plan indicates
the City wants to happen. An example was when Ivory Homes approached the City regarding a
development on the west side of Cottonwood Heights. It was a controversial project, but he voted
in favor of it because the proposal was exactly what the General Plan envisioned for the property.
The General Plan is important for developers and landowners to carry the City's mission forward,
and it is an opportunity to share their values and expectations for the future of Cottonwood Heights.

Planning Commissioner Smith stated that some expectations in the General Plan are the result of
State requirements, but the draft document did not clarify which elements were imposed by the
State. For example, the State has mandated that the City plan for a certain amount of moderate-
income housing, which affects the rest of the General Plan, but that was not indicated in the
document. He noted that District 4 was very well-represented in the original public input process,
but he believed it was important that each district be equally represented. The draft document
emphasizes making the City bicycle-friendly, but that could be very expensive, and he believed it
needed to be viewed with an understanding of the budgetary constraints. He agreed with Chair
Steimnan that the City needed to be accountable to the General Plan.

Planning Commissioner Lugo stated that the draft General Plan came across as a very boilerplate
document, and he commended Mayor Weichers for slowing the process down to ensure that they
get it right. He was in favor of subcommittees for each section of the General Plan.

Plamling Commissioner Anderson stated that the document is too important to be completed in a
bubble, and she appreciated the opportunity for the Planning Commission and City Council to
work together on it. In their discussions on the draft document, the Commissioners had expressed
concerns about the use of jargon and other issues. She did not believe the General Plan should
include specific target dates but agreed with Chair Steinman that it should include critical paths to
hold everyone accountable to ensuring that the goals included in the plan are accomplished.
Holladay City's general plan is very clear, precise, and easy to find on their website, and she looked
forward to working to ensure that Cottonwood Heights' plan was as well.

Cottonwood Heights Joint Planning Commission/City Council Meeting Minutes for October 21, 2025   Approved:

                                                      3
Council Member Hyland agreed that the draft document is too boilerplate and could apply to any
town. She stopped commenting on the economic development chapter because she realized they
would be better off revising the 2005 General Plan than trying to correct the new draft that has no
connection to Cottonwood Heights. Everyone needed to agree on the process, timeline, vision
statement, and big-picture goals. They could then break up into subgroups and dial into the City's
specific goals.

Council Member Hyland noted that things have changed in Cottonwood Heights, and it is no
longer "Small Town USA". The General Plan needed to acknowledge both the visitor economy
and the mountain suburban lifestyle that residents moved to Cottonwood Heights for. She did not
want to abandon residents' vision for the City, but they also needed to take advantage of the visitor
economy in a way that serves the citizens of Cottonwood Heights. A lot of revenue dollars could
be captured if it is done c01Tectly, which would mitigate the cost burden of being a gateway city
to national parks. She believes the City should embrace a transitional design aesthetic between
old and new buildings. The General Plan should address that and include architectural details that
they would like to see incorporated into new buildings as the City develops and redevelops.

Council Member Newell agreed with Chair Steinman and Council Member Hyland. The new
General Plan should be based on the 2005 plan. The General Plan is a living document that is not
set in stone. Things change over time, and the City needed the understanding and resiliency to be
flexible in the future. In private industry, strategic plans are created and set aside, but the City's
General Plan needed some flexibility to ensure that it is a living document that provides the
parameters within which it wants the community to evolve.

Planning Commissioner Barnes believed the plan was relatively strong, with many challenges and
good objectives, but there was an opportunity to create more quantifiable objectives. The General
Plan has to be flexible to adapt to future changes. Future forecasting can be an impossible
challenge, and it was important to guide and control change in order to accomplish the desired
tomorrow.

Council Member Birrell emphasized the importance ofresiliency and sustainability, as there could
be dire consequences if the City did not prepare for future financial and climate implications. She
believes there needs to be an emphasis on communication, both internally and with neighboring
cities, to maximize existing infrastrncture. Cottonwood Heights outsources its utilities, and she
believes tax dollars could be maximized by understanding what neighboring cities are doing and
identifying opportunities there. She did not believe the existing adopted master plans had been
acknowledged, and they need to be assessed and utilized. Any subcommittees should review the
various master plans and avail themselves of those existing resources.

Mayor Weichers remarked that it is important to take the time to do things the right way, but the
update had also been in process for many years. He proposed that a deadline of July 1, 2026, be
set for adoption of the complete General Plan. However, the State requires that the water element
be adopted prior to the end of 2025. He was working to determine if it could be delayed, but they
would need to focus on it first and may have to adopt it in December.


Cottonwood Heights Joint Planning Commission/City Council Meeting Minutes for October 21, 2025   Approved:

                                                      4
Commissioner Smith hoped they would be coordinating with surrounding cities for the process.
Mayor Weichers agreed and noted that communication goes both ways. Chair Steinman asked if
that type of communication was done directly or through the Wasatch Front Regional Council
("WFRC"). WFRC Community Development Planner, Christy Dahlberg, stated that it is a good
practice to coordinate with surrounding cities, especially regarding regional thoroughfares or
larger developments.

Council Member Hyland stated that the 2005 General Plan's Vision Statement described
Cottonwood Heights much better than the one provided in the draft plan.

        Cottonwood Heights is a community that highly values its history as a well-maintained
        residential community. The preservation of quality of life is of utmost importance to
        residents and business owners. Cottonwood Heights views itselfas a City where residents,
        tourists, businesses, and government come together to create an attractive, safe, and well-
        maintained community where people are proud to live, learn, work, and recreate.

Council Member Hyland appreciated that the statement acknowledged tourism and businesses, as
well as preservation of the quality oflife. Commissioner Shelton stated that he had lived with that
statement for a very long time. The line that is considered with any controversial land use
application is, "The preservation of quality oflife is of utmost importance to residents and business
owners," which means that nothing should be changed. Council Member Holton stated that it
would depend on an individual's definition of "quality of life". Mayor Weichers asked how the
sentiment could be incorporated without ambiguity.

Council Member Newell noted that the General Plan is missing Mission and Value Statements. A
Vision Statement includ~s values the City wants to uphold, but a Mission Statement provides the
pathway to realizing that vision. A Value Statement clarifies the values that the City holds most
dear. The Mission Statement explains what you want to do and could be something like, "We will
continue to incorporate flexibility and resiliency as a City continuously." The Vision Statement
explains what you want the City to look like after the mission is accomplished.

Council Member Birrell suggested that the Vision Statement acknowledge that Cottonwood
Heights' location as a gateway city means that it includes a visitor economy, which is both a
challenge and an oppo1tunity. It should pri01itize wellbeing, public health, and safety, and
acknowledge people who work but do not live in Cottonwood Heights. Everyone is proud of the
City's history, but, for example, it is no longer practical to preserve the Old Mill. There are also
challenges with blight in residential c01mnunities, and it will not be possible to maintain the same
appearance that the City had at the end of the 20th century.

Commissioner Shelton stated that the Vision Statement sounded nice, but asked if it would clarify
the City's vision for a planner who was not familiar with Cottonwood Heights. Did it clarify or
confuse? He did not believe that it clarified.

Commissioner Smith stated that it was nice to have a statement of philosophy like the Vision
Statement if it is followed by concrete, measurable action steps. Council Member Holton agreed
and indicated that there should be cohesive language amongst the different subcommittees.

Cottonwood Heights Joint Planning Commission/City Council Meeting Minutes for October 21, 2025   Approved:

                                                      5
Planning Commissioner Mills stated that he had sat in on a number of visioning meetings over the
past 20 years, and the General Plan update process had been restarted many times. The City has
four or five different master plans that do not agree with each other. They've discussed traffic and
safety problems, walkability, bike-ability, etc. New Planning Commissioners spend time trying to
decipher what the City Council wants, which can be an insurmountable challenge. He found it
frustrating that they were still having the same discussions they'd had since the City was
incorporated. The audience for the General Plan was people approaching the City with a fresh set
of eyes: new volunteers, Council members, Staff, etc. People who want to build a product in the
City refer to the General Plan to gain an understanding of who they are, what the guardrails are,
and how to maximize profit in a way that is beneficial for Cottonwood Heights.

Commissioner Mills did not believe they should spend time arguing over verbiage. He agreed that
the draft document had problems and challenges, but he did not agree that the consultant had failed.
The City spent a lot of money on the consultan_t, and the fact that other individuals hired them did
not mean that they produced a terrible work product. He supported creating subcommittees, but
he was not in support of scrapping the document and starting over again. Opportunities like the
Olympics and changing goals for entities like the Utah Department of Transportation ("UDOT")
needed to be considered. A lot of money had been spent, and he believed they needed to manage
the process efficiently and not be too critical of things like the use of buzzwords. The Vision
Statement was not a legal, binding document that would make or break a project, and he believed
they should expedite discussion of less important items so that they could focus on what is
important.

Mayor Weichers reported that the goal was for the Vision Statement and General Plan to reflect
Cottonwood Heights, and there was currently a disconnect that made many uncomfortable with
moving ahead. He agreed with Commissioner Mills that they should not focus on specific
verbiage, but they did need to determine the City's vision.

Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung, stated that from Staffs perspective,
it was important that the Vision Statement provide clear direction on the City's future. He then
displayed a table indicating the differences between a Mission and Vision Statement. They needed
to consider what they wanted to become and where they wanted to go. Staff and the consultants
could then provide mput on the best way to get there, as well as educate and inform about what
the tradeoffs could be. They could embrace a dense, walkable, urban enviromnent in some areas
or retain the more suburban lifestyle that currently existed in the City, and that vision needed to be
articulated. The Vision Statement should also trickle down into each element and inform each
goal of the General Plan so that they do not lose sight of the big picture but rather provide more
specific guidance on how to get there through transportation, land use, recreation and open space,
economic development, and housing decisions.

Mayor Weichers asked how to accomplish that goal without reinventing the wheel. The Vision
Statement needed to be accurate. He did not have issues with the 2005 statement, and he
appreciated Commissioner Shelton's comments about how that statement had been used by
developers. Council Member Hyland noted that the 2005 statement indicates the cormnunity likes


Cottonwood Heights Joint Planning Commission/City Council Meeting Minutes for October 21, 2025   Approved:

                                                      6
Cottonwood Heights the way it is, and those characteristics should be protected, which is no longer
true.

Mr. Spung stated that the statement could be modified to indicate that they want to both preserve
existing neighborhoods and identify areas that may change. The new General Plan should
proactively dictate what that change looks like, which would allow Staff to draft ordinances and
zoning policies to get there, rather than being reactive to what developers want. Property drafted,
it would minimize tough conversations at the Planning Commission and City Council level
because what the City wants would be very clear.

Chair Steinman stated that the Vision Statement was a broad aspiration. Each chapter should have
a clear, action-oriented Mission Statement. The City has Transportation, Stormwater, and Parks
Master Plans in addition to regional plans like the Mid-Valley Active Transportation Plan,
Bonneville Shoreline Trail Access Master Plan, etc., and those plans need to be reflected in an
action-oriented way. He was in support of retaining and modifying the 2005 Vision Statement and
General Plan with current data and details. They could then look at where the City was and what
it had become, as well as opportunities for improvement that are reflected in the Master Plans. He
asked Staff for their input on what is the fabric of the City and its direction based on what they had
heard from affected parties.

Council Member Hyland indicated that each chapter of the draft document included goals and
stressed the importance of reading both the 2005 and current draft General Plans.

Mayor Weichers staJed that the Mission Statement would be a great starting point for the
subcmmnittees. He then asked for specific feedback on the 2005 Vision Statement.

Commissioner Anderson believed the Vision Statement should state that the City aspires to
responsible development that respects the history of Cottonwood Heights, rather than "the
preservation of quality of life is of utmost importance." Council Member Hyland noted that the
sentence could be removed and the Vision Statement would still stand. Commissioner Anderson
liked the last sentence but suggested that verbiage regarding responsible growth or development
be added to recognize that it will happen.

Mr. Spung recommended that everyone consider how they would describe the City's goal for
Cottonwood Heights in 30 years, because that is what the Vision Statement articulates.

Council Member Holton commented that they need to consider buildings and development. The
Gravel Pit development did not yet exist, and it was a unique place that needed to be developed in
a unique way. Its offerings and looks would have more variety than other areas of the City. He
believed they needed to look at things through a broader lens than had been necessary in the past.

Mayor Weichers suggested language indicating a commihnent to both the City's mountain
suburban character and its strategic growth. Commissioner Mills suggested "targeted economic
development in strategic locations while respecting the City's mountain suburban character"
because the type of development they may encourage in major economic engines like the Gravel
Pit and the area near Trader Joe's would not be desirable in other areas of the City. The Town

Cottonwood Heights Joint Planning Commission/City Council Meeting Minutes for October 21, 2025   Approved:

                                                      7
Center would also be treated differently. Commissioner Anderson stated that the City's position
as a gateway should also be mentioned.

Council Member Binell agreed with Commissioner Anderson and suggested, "Cottonwood
Heights is a renowned gateway to magnificent canyons of Utah that balances quality of life for
residents, businesses, and visitors through a commitment to ______ " That could be
environmental stewardship, maintaining unique areas, quality of life, etc. Her constituents want a
City that provides for their ability to thrive through things like services and infrastructure.

Mr. Spung described Cottonwood Heights as a sophisticated, high-quality suburban community
that has unparalleled access to recreation, ski resorts, and trails, and the Vision Statement should
reflect what those assets can help the City become. The Gravel Pit could be a global destination.
He believes most people who live in Cottonwood Heights were attracted to its recreation, including
its neighborhood trails. Cottonwood Heights is not comparable to Park City, but the world knows
Park City, and Cottonwood Heights is better in many ways because it does not have the same
political and geographical constraints.

Commissioner Lugo cautioned against using the word "sophisticated." He enjoys the diversity of
Cottonwood Heights, which includes many different neighborhoods and socioeconomic groups.
Mr. Spung clarified that although Cottonwood Heights has a highly educated population, he meant
sophisticated in tenns of its development and pattern of form, which are higher quality than other
areas of Utah due to market demands.

Chair Steinman stated that thoughtful transportation infrastructure and economic development
were two major growth opportunities that would guide proper land use. Cottonwood Heights is a
well-maintained gateway city, and that should be a focus of the General Plan. They needed to
consider how to create appropriate transportation for a gateway city that encourages people
flowing through to stop here. The Vision Statement and overall General Plan should reflect that
and balance it with the existing well-maintained residential community.

Council Member Holton stated that it should be made clear that the grand ideas they had for the
City would not be realized to the detriment of other areas. For example, making certain areas of
the City more bikeable was different from making the entire City bikeable to the detriment of
vehicles or vice versa. Commissioner Anderson agreed and noted that inclusion words like
"thoughtful consideration" or "aspire" would accomplish that goal.

Mayor Weichers spoke about his experience in Carmel, Indiana, which created a town center and
built around it. They offered tax-increment financing for any business willing to hide parking
behind or underneath a building. Cars were still allowed, but they hardly ever had to stop because
they went from 18 traffic signals to two.

After further discussion, it was decided that the phrase "suburban gateway" should be added to the
Vision Statement, and the statement, "The preservation of quality oflife is of utmost importance
to residents and business owners," should be removed. Mr. Spung stated that Staff would modify
the statement to better reflect everyone's comments.


Cottonwood Heights Joint Planning Commission/City Council Meeting Minutes for October 21, 2025   Approved:

                                                      8
Council Member Hyland stated that a resort community's amenities can be open to its residents,
and that was the direction that development in Cottonwood Heights was taking. She preferred to
think in terms of "and" rather than "but".

Subcommittee organization and membership were discussed. The subcommittees would initially
work on each section's Mission Statement and goals. Council Member Holton suggested that each
district be represented on each subcommittee. Mayor Weichers stated that sustainability should
be a part of each section' s goals. Categories and committee makeup were discussed, as well as
possibly renaming Economic Development to Fiscal Health or Fiscal Resiliency.

After discussion, it was decided that the subcommittees would have the following members:

Land Use
   • Mayor Weichers
   • Commissioner Shelton
   • Commissioner Mills
   • Commissioner Lugo

Transportation
   • Council Member Birrell
   • Council Member Hyland
   • Commissioner Poulson
   • Commissioner Anderson

Moderate-Income Housing
  • Council Member Newell

Water Use and Preservation
  • Council Member Holton
  • Commissioner Shelton
  • Commissioner Smith

Economic Development
   • Council Member Newell
   • Commissioner Hyland
   • Commissioner Anderson
   • Chair Steinman
   • Commissioner Barnes

Recreation
   • Council Member Holton
   • Commissioner Smith
   • Parks, Trails, and Open Space Committee member



Cottonwood Heights Joint Planning Commission/City Council Meeting Minutes for October 21, 2025   Approved:

                                                      9
The subcommittees would be tasked with the following:

      •   Mission Statement
      •   Three to five general goals
      •   Compare the 2005 General Plan with the 2025 draft document
      •   Identifying what had been accomplished from the 2005 plan.

The document fmmat and how commenting and editing could be achieved were discussed.
Mr. Spung suggested that the subcommittees focus on the action items rather than rewriting the
narrative. Council Member Hyland noted that document security was also an issue, as it was not
a public document. Staff would organize the subcommittees, set up meetings, and forward
documents to committee members.

Mr. Spung asked if the subcommittees should review relevant master plans and other policy
documents or if that step should be preserved for a later time. It was decided that committee
members should familiarize themselves with those plans and also consider whether they needed to
be revised.

In response to a question from Council Member Holton, Sam Taylor of Landmark Design stated
that the draft document included all State requirements for the water element, and there was not a
lot of leeway to change the contents of th e plan. However, the action items should be considered
and potentially modified. He did not believe it would be problematic to adopt that element before
adoption of the full General Plan, and it could be amended to confonn with the new land use vision
if necessary.

The next joint City Council/Planning Commission meeting would be held on December 2, 2025,
and the Mission Statements and goals would be presented at that time.

          3.2    Excuse Planning Commission.

4.0       REVIEW OF CALENDAR AND UPCOMING EVENTS.

          4.1    Friday, October 24 - Monster Mash from 5:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. at CWH Rec
                 Center.
          4.2    November 17th through January 5th - Winter Lobby Art Display.
          4.3    Monday, December 1st from 5:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. at City Hall - Light the
                 Heights.
          4.4    Saturday, December 6th from 7:30 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. at Butler Middle -
                 Christmas Concert with Eclipse 6.

Mr. Gerber reported that the Trunk or Treat event would be held on October 31 from 3 :00 PM to
4:00 PM at the City Hall parking lot. A vehicle would be provided for the City Council.




Cottonwood Heights Joint Planning Commission/City Council Meeting Minutes for October 21, 2025   Approved:

                                                     10
5.0     POSSIBLE CLOSED MEETING TO DISCUSS LITIGATION; REAL PROPERTY
        PURCHASE OR LEASE; THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
        COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH OF AN INDIVIDUAL;
        AND/OR ANOTHER PERMITTED PURPOSE UNDER UCA 52-2-205.

There was no Closed Session.

6.0     ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION.

MOTION: Council Member Newell moved to ADJOURN the City Council Work Session. The
motion was seconded by Commissioner Shelton. The motion passed with the unanimous consent
of the Council.

The Work Session adjourned at 6:07 PM.




Cottonwood Heights Joint Planning Commission/City Council Meeting Minutes for October 21, 2025   Approved:

                                                     11
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND
RENEW AL AGENCY BUSINESS MEETING HELD TUESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2025, AT
6:45 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS LOCATED
AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD, COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Members Present:        Mayor Mike Weichers, Council Member Suzanne Hyland, Council Member
                        Shawn Newell, Council Member Matt Holton

Staff Present:          City Manager, Jared Gerber; City Attorney, Shane Topham; Police Chief,
                        Robby Russo; Finance Director, Scott Jurges; Records, Culture, and Human
                        Resources Director, Barbara Higgins; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen;
                        Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; System
                        Administrator, Alex Earl; Public Works Director/City Engineer, Matt
                        Shipp; Unified Fire Authority, Riley Pilgrim

1.0     WELCOME

Mayor Weichers called the meeting to order at 6:45 PM.

2.0     Consideration of Resolution 2025-06 Approving and Ratifying an "Agreement to
        Lease" for Realty within the Town Center at 2300 East Fort Union Community
        Reinvestment Project Area. {By this resolution the board will approve and ratify the
        agency's entry into an agreement to lease concerning the agency's approximately 11.5
        acres of realty {currently owned or under contract to purchase) within the agency's
        Town Center at 2300 East For/ Union community reinvestment project area.)

Mayor Weichers reported that the Community Development and Renewal Agency had been in
deliberations on this item for several months.

MOTION: Board Member Newell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2025-06 Approving and
Ratifying an "Agreement to Lease" for Realty within the Town Center at 2300 East Fort Union
Community Reinvestment Project Area. The motion was seconded by Board Member Hyland.
Vote on Motion: Board Member Holton-Aye; Board Member Hyland-Aye; Board Member
Newell-Aye; Chair Weichers-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.

3.0     APPROVAL OF MINUTES.
        The minutes of this meeting will be approved through the following process: The
        Agency's secretary promptly will circulate a draft copy of the minutes to the Board
        members, who then will have three business days to provide any proposed corrections to
        the secretary. The secretary will then circulate a revised draft o(the minutes to the Board
        members, and the same review process will continue until such time as no corrections to
        the draft minutes are received within the three-business-day review period, whereupon
        that draft of the minutes will be deemed approved and will become the final minutes of
        the meeting.



Cottonwood Heights Joint Planning Commission/City Council Meeting Minutes for October 21, 2025   Approved:

                                                     12
4.0    ADJOURN

MOTION: Board Member Holton moved to ADJOURN. The motion was seconded by Board
Member Hyland. The motion passed unanimously.

The CDRA Meeting adjourned at 6:49 PM.




Cottonwood Heights Joint Planning Commission/City Council Meeting Minutes for October 21, 2025   Approved:

                                                     13
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
HELD TUESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2025, AT 7:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD,
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Members Present:        Mayor Mike Weichers, Council Member Ellen Birrell (via Zoom), Council
                        Member Suzanne Hyland, Council Member Shawn Newell, Council
                        Member Matt Holton

Staff Present:          City Manager, Jared Gerber; City Attorney, Shane Topham; Police Chief,
                        Robby Russo; Finance Director, Scott Jurges; Records, Culture, and Human
                        Resources Director, Barbara Higgins; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen;
                        Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; System
                        Administrator, Alex Earl; Pubiic Works Director/City Engineer, Matt
                        Shipp; Unified Fire Authority, Riley Pilgrim

1.0    WELCOME

Mayor Weichers called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM.

2.0     PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE

City Manager, Jared Gerber led the Pledge of Allegiance.

3.0     PROCLAMATIONS

        3.1      Consideration of Proclamation 2025-03 Proclaiming Utah PTA Centennial
                 Celebration Month.

Mayor Weichers read the Proclamation honoring the Utah Parent-Teacher Association ("PTA")
and proclaiming October as Centennial Celebration Month. He then presented the Proclamation
to the Utah PTA president, Julie Cluff. Ms. Cluff stated that Cottonwood Heights was where she
learned to advocate for her children through PTA and thanked the City Council for being one of
the few cities in Utah to recognize Centennial Celebration Month.

4.0     CITY COUNCIL COMMITTEE REPORTS

        4.1      Committee Reports by Council Member Matt Holton.

Council Member Holton reported that he recently participated in the Parks, Trails, and Open Space
Cmmnittee cleanup of Berry Hill Park in District 3. He thanked the City's volunteer cmmnittees
for their efforts in the community.

        4.2      Committee Reports by Council Member Suzanne Hyland.

Council Member Hyland complimented Public Works Director, Matt Shipp; Finance Director,

Cottonwood Heights Joint Planning Commission/City Council Meeting Minutes for October 21, 2025   Approved:

                                                     14
Scott Jurges; and their teams for their efforts in securing funds and completing the repaving project
on Union Park Avenue. It made a noticeable difference. She also complimented the Public Works
Department for responding to the Council's request to beautify the medians on Union Park
Avenue. They are now a beautiful and welcoming invitation into the City from Interstate 215.
She had received many compliments about the sidewalks on Creek Road. It was very impactful
that her neighbors could now walk to church on a sidewalk instead of in the street.

She is the Council Liaison to CH2, which works with the Cottonwood Heights Recreation Center,
and is on the Butlerville Days Committee. As responsible stewards of public funds, they are aware
that Butlerville Days has become a regional event. They discussed increased costs and impacts to
Staff, and the City Council decided to hold the event the third week of July, forego the float
expense, and move the parade to 5:00 p.m. so people c,_an also attend the carnival. She believes
the changes will be positive, but the Council can reconsider based on feedback after the event.

She is also the Council Liaison to the Health in the Heights Committee. Results of the Utah
Student Health and Risk Prevention ("SHARP") Survey will be available soon. The survey
measures key data such as substance use, mental and emotional health, risk and protective factors,
and antisocial behaviors, and the results will provide a foundation for the committee to understand
what is happening in the City and guide Health in the Heights' goals. She thanked the committee
members who are committed to improving the community's health and well-being.

       4.3      Committee Reports by Council Member Shawn Newell.

Council Member Newell reported that he serves as the Liaison for the Cottonwood Heights Arts
Council, which is finalizing plans for the electrical box wrapping project. It will be exciting to see
the new designs. He is also a member of the Canyons Education Foundation board, which has
been working on its innovation grants. Forty elementary, junior, and high school teachers
submitted projects for potential grant funding, and approximately $100,000 would be awarded to
winners on October 29, 2025. It is a great program for the community.

        4.4     Committee Reports by Council Member Ellen Birrell.

Council Member Birrell was excused.

        4.5     Committee Reports by Mayor Mike Weichers.

Mayor Weichers thanked the City Council for their investment of time, resources, and energy on
the citizens' behalf with little monetary compensation. He was grateful for their friendship,
stewardship, and the example they set.

5.0     CITIZEN COMMENTS

Maggie Mills provided updates on upcoming Whitmore Library events. The new Art Explorers
program would begin on October 25 at 10:30 a.m. and provide children with the opportunity to
explore their creative sides by trying different artistic techniques and materials. The preschool
programs and chess club were ongoing. The adult nonfiction book club would discuss The Year

Cottonwood Heights Joint Planning Commission/City Council Meeting Minutes for October 21, 2025   Approved:

                                                     15
ofLiving Constitutionally by A.J. Jacobs on November 19 at 7:00 p.m. A sound bath experience
will be held on November 12 at 5:30 p.m.

Two emailed comments were received and entered into the record.

6.0     LANDSCAPE AWARDS

        6.1     Community and Economic Development Landscape Awards - Community
                and Economic Development Director Jim Spung.

Mayor Weichers reported that each year, he chooses a commercial property and Council Members
choose a resident from their district to receive the Landscape Award for waterwise conservation
efforts and beautiful landscaping. Each awardee receives a yard sign, certificate, and gift
certificate to Home Depot.

The District 1 recipient is 1918 East Siesta Drive. Council Member Holton stated that the home
has both flowers and flowering shrubs, and the effort the homeowners take to maintain their
landscaping is obvious.

The District 2 recipient is 2118 Stream View Drive. Council Member Hyland stated the home has
very attractive landscaping that perfectly complements the home's architecture. Their use of
native plants and thoughtful design really enhances the neighborhood's character.

The Dishict 3 recipient is 2560 East Cavalier Drive. Council Member Newell stated that he was
drawn to this home due to its waterwise landscaping and use of native plants.

The District 4 recipient is 8803 Alpen Way. Community and Economic Development Director,
Jim Spung read the following statement from Council Member Birrell: "The homeowner has
thoughtfully landscaped for both beauty and utilitarian purposes. Three wooden standing planters
within the park strip make it productive as a source of fresh food. The wildflowers, pampas grass,
large mature and new evergreen trees are beautiful. Award selection takes into account their drip
watering, mixed use of wood and rock mulch, and sprawling ivy groundcover that holds moisture
in the soil and reduces water consumption. This nominee gets a high xeriscaping rating and is the
choice for the 2025 District 4 Landscape Award.

The commercial recipient is White Peak Dental at 7110 South Highland Drive. Mayor Weichers
stated that the landscaping is very clean and reminded him of the work of a dentist. He was grateful
for the time and effort the business put into its landscape design.

Photographs were taken with the City Council.

7.0     REPORTS

        7.1     CHPD Report - Police Chief. Robby Russo.

Police Support Specialist Supervisor, Candie Ten-y presented the June 2025 Police Department

Cottonwood Heights Joint Planning Commission/City Council Meeting Minutes for October 21, 2025   Approved:

                                                     16
Report.

Calls for service: 1,390, a slight decrease from September 2024.

Response times:
   • Priority 1: 04:09
   • Priority 2: 06:08
   • Priority 3: 04:22

Crime: There were 57 total crimes, an increase from 47 in September 2024, due to increases in
thefts and assaults.

Arrests: 66, an increase of 26 from September 2024.

Traffic:
   • Citations: 350
   • Warnings: 312
   • DUis: 5

Accidents:
   • Property damage: 43
   • Injury: 9

Animal Control/ Code Enforcement: There were 75 total calls for service. Their focus has been
on education rather than enforcement, so no citations were issued.

Deaths: Three attended and two unattended deaths.

Ms. Terry reviewed the three-month averages, property crime reports by dishict, and citation
reports. She also reported on the following:

    •     August events included the annual CHPD Autism Barbeque and 2025 Awards Banquet.
    •     In early September, they held a retirement celebration for Assistant Police Chief, Paul
          Brenneman.
    •     K-9 Dave located 8.5 pounds of methamphetamine and 30,000 fentanyl pills during a
          traffic stop in the community.
    •     Eight Cottonwood Heights police officers also assisted with the incident at Utah Valley
          University.
    •     Code Enforcement worked with the Salt Lake County Health Department and several other
          agencies to remove approximately 50 cats from the home, all of which have been rehomed
          or are in the process of being rehomed.
    •     CHPD won the 2025 Guns N' Hoses softball game against the UFA 19-to-3. To
          commemorate the event, Police Chief, Robby Russo purchased a second-place award for
          UFA.


Cottonwood Heights Joint Planning Commission/City Council Meeting Minutes for October 21, 2025   Approved:

                                                     17
Ms. Terry provided trick-or-treating safety tips for Halloween.

        7.2     Finance Report-Finance Director, Scott Jurges.

Finance Director, Scott Jurges, presented the Finance Report.

The beginning General Fund balance for FY 2024-2025 was $7,608,902. Revenues were budgeted
at $26,680,731 , with a projection of $26,348,73 1. Actual revenues were $26,161 ,239, a difference
of $519,492 due to a decrease in sales and energy use taxes.

Expenses were budgeted at $23,154,064, with a projection of$22,484,784. Actual expenses were
$22,912,777, a difference of $241,287. Expenses were under budget but over projections due to
increased departmental costs and unplanned Public Works expenses. In 2021 and 2022, the City
paid approximately $27,000 per year in fire hydrant maintenance costs. In 2023, it increased to
$53,000. In 2024, it again increased to $116,000. Payment was delayed while Mr. Shipp worked
with Salt Lake City to potentially decrease the cost, and as a result, both the 2024 and 2025 bills
were paid in the same fiscal year. The 2025 cost was approximately $135,000.

Mayor Weichers asked if Salt Lake City Public Utilities had provided their rationale for
quadrupling the cost. Mr. Shipp stated that the original contract dated back to when the City was
first incorporated, and there were many years without an increase. He has disputed some of the
charges. In response to a follow-up question, Mr. Shipp reported that there are approximately
1,000 fire hydrants in the City, and they charge per hydrant. Maintenance includes leak repair and
exercising the hydrants annually.

Council Member Holton asked if the City was being charged a premium. Mr. Shipp stated that
per the contract, the City was charged the same as the Salt Lake City Fire Department. Mr. Jurges
added that the Salt Lake City Water Department is a prop1ietaiy fund that charges out the cost of
servic~s, so Cottonwood Heights should be receiving internal customer pricing. Mr. Shipp stated
that he did not believe the City was getting the services outlined in the contract.

Mayor Weichers asked if the City receives a year-end analysis of what services were performed.
Mr. Shipp stated that if he withholds payment, they will provide something.

Mr. Jurges continued the quarterly report. Projected use of Fund balance was $ 1,108,097, but the
actual was $ 1,723,582. He expected the number to decrease somewhat based on two pending
corrections.

Property tax trends were reviewed. The City had increased taxes once in FY 2018-2019, and taxes
had remained steady since then. Additional property tax revenue is generated when new homes
and businesses are constructed, not when property values increase. Mr. Jurges indicated that
Council Member Hyland was writing an article to that effect, as many residents incorrectly believe
that property tax revenue is tied to home value. In response to a question from Mayor Weichers,
he reported that the City received a slight increase in property tax revenue due to a new tax level.



Cottonwood Heights Joint Planning Commission/City Council Meeting Minutes for October 21, 2025   Approved:

                                                     18
The General Obligation Bond property tax is new for FY 2025-2026 and covers the debt service
on the $1 ,314,955 bond. A small amount of revenue was received in October, and more was
expected in November and December.

Motor Vehicle Fee-in-Lieu revenue increased to $432,458 in the last fiscal year. Mr. Jurges
reported that the State does not provide sufficient details to determine the reason for the increase.
The budgeted amount was $325,000, and he expected the current year revenue to be approximately
$350,000. In response to a question from Council Member Hyland, he confinned that the amount
reflects all cars. It is based on a calendar year, like property taxes. All monies collected through
June are booked in July, followed by monthly collections for the remainder of the year. Revenues
were currently approximately $11 ,000 higher than the previous year to date.

Sales tax trends had remained consistent over the past three years. The original FY 2024-2025
budget of$9,700,000 was decreased to $9,500,000 for the current year. It was too early in the year
to determine trends for FY2025-2026.

Council Member Holton stated that a registration fee increase of$7 per gas vehicle and $15.50 per
hybrid or electric vehicle was instituted on January 1, 2024, which may account for the increased
revenue. Mr. Jurges stated that, like-e-property taxes, significant portions of the fee go to other
entities. The City would have a better idea of whether the revenue would remain higher once the
January distributions were received.

County Option Highway Transpmiation Sales Tax revenue increased from $795,714 to $814,558
in FY 2024-2025. The current year budget was $820,000, and Mr. Jurges was confident that the
actual revenues woul~ be close to that figure. These funds can be used for both roads and trails.

The County Local Transit Sales Tax was a new tax that began in July 2025. Approximately
$18,000 was received in the previous fiscal year, and approximately $400,000 was projected for
FY 2025-2026. The revenue had not yet been budgeted. Mr. Jurges anticipated a Budget
Adjustinent would be made in January 2026 when more consistent data was available. These funds
must be used for capital projects.

Transient Room Tax trends were reviewed next. These taxes increase gradually each year as hotels
increase their rates. Revenue in FY 2024-2025 was $ 183,617, and $180,000 was budgeted for the
current year. Mayor Weichers stated that there could be an increase based on State oversight of
short-term rentals. Council Member Holton indicated that some online platforms had not been
remitting the taxes, and he was hopeful that they would be required to make catch-up payments.

Municipal Energy Taxes had decreased in FY 2024-2025, and as a result, the current year budget
was decreased to $2,500,000. Current revenue was in line with the previous year.

Cable Television Franchise Taxes have declined steadily due to users moving to streaming
platfonns. FY 2024-2025 revenue was $271 ,920, and the tax was at risk of disappearing entirely.
In response to a question from Council Member Hyland, Mr. Jurges reported that streaming
services are not taxed. However, because they are replacing cable, he believes the State Legislature
should consider taxing those services to replace the lost revenue. Mayor Weichers stated that the

Cottonwood Heights Joint Planning Commission/City Council Meeting Minutes for October 21, 2025   Approved:

                                                     19
State's rationale was that City infrastructure is used more for cable television than streaming.
Mr. Jurges indicated that internet providers must have infrastructure. Council Member Holton
asked if the projection of $300,000 was too high based on that information. Mr. Jurges indicated
that the amount is minimal, so no adjustment was needed at the time, but it may need to be adjusted
down for the next year's budget.

Class C Road Taxes are charged per gallon of fuel purchased. This revenue has been collected
through four periods. FY 2025-2026 was ahead of the same period in the previous year. Mr.
Jurges reported that this is another tax for which the State provides insufficient details, so he could
not explain why the revenue continued to increase as vehicles became more fuel efficient. These
funds are required to be used for road maintenance costs, including personnel costs, and capital
projects. The City also receives a $400,000 lump-sum contribution each year that must be used
for capital projects.

General Fund expense trends were reviewed next. Expenses were approximately $400,000 higher
than the FY 2024-2025 year-to-date. However, UFA is paid in the first month of each quarter, and
software contract payments are due at the beginning of each year, so Mr. Jurges was not concerned
about the increase. The previous year's expenses were budgeted at $23,154,064, and actuals were
$22,912,777. FY 2025-2026 is budgeted at $24,246,817, and Mr. Jurges anticipates that the
actuals will be under budget.

General Fund revenue was trending approximately $343,000 ahead of the previous year.
Excluding the approximately $2 million in State and Federal fiscal recovery funds received in 2022
and 2023, revenues had increased consistently year over year.

Council Member Newell stated that Salt Lake County had announced a proposed 20% increase in
property taxes, which would have a significant impact on residents. The City Council is diligent
in how it budgets for the City and must consider residents, Staff, first responders, etc., and that
task would become more difficult if the increase were approved. Council Member Holton agreed
that the Council had been very diligent in considering the fiscal impacts their decisions have on
residents, and it was frustrating to try to stretch dollars as far as possible and then be faced with a
20% increase from the County.

8.0     ACTION ITEMS

        8.1     Consideration of Ordinance 439 Amending Title 19 of the City's Code of
                Ordinances (October 2025 Code Maintenance).
                (This ordinance will enact several amendments to Title 19 of the City's Code
                of Ordinances concerning catering sell lice businesses in the O-R-D zone and
                open-air accessory structures, as recommended by the City's Planning
                Commission).

Mayor Weichers repo1ied that this item was discussed during the Work Session.

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to APPROVE Ordinance 439 Amending Title 19 of
the City's Code of Ordinances. The motion was seconded by Council Member Newell. Vote on

Cottonwood Heights Joint Planning Commission/City Council Meeting Minutes for October 21, 2025   Approved:

                                                     20
Motion: Council Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Holton-
Yes; Mayor Weichers-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

       8.2      Consideration of Resolution 2025-69 Approving a Consulting Agreement with
                GBS Benefits, Inc.
                (By this resolution, the council will approve the city's entry into an agreement
                whereunder GBS Benefits, Inc. will perform an independent wage
                study/compensation survey for up to ten city staff positions as selected by the
                City) .

Mayor Weichers repmied that the above item was discussed during the Work Session.

MOTION: Council Member Holton moved to APPROVE Resolution 2025-69 Approving a
Consulting Agreement with GBS Benefits, Inc. The motion was seconded by Council Member
Hyland. Vote on Motion: Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Holton-Yes; Council
Member Hyland-Yes; Mayor Weichers-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

9.0     CONSENT CALENDAR

        9.1     Approval of the Minutes for the City Council Work Session and Business
                Meetings of October 7, 2025

MOTION: Council Member Holton moved to APPROVE the Consent Calendar. The motion
was seconded by Council Member N ewe11. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the
Council.

10.0    ADJOURN

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to ADJOURN. The motion was seconded by Council
Member Holton. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.

The City Council Meeting adjourned at 8:14 PM.




Cottonwood Heights Joint Planning Commission/City Council Meeting Minutes for October 21, 2025   Approved:

                                                     21
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the
Cottonwood Heights City Council Work Session, CDRA, and City Council Business Meetings
held Tuesday, October 21, 2025.


TevL Forbes
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: __________




Cottonwood Heights Joint Planning Commission/City Council Meeting Minutes for October 21, 2025   Approved:

                                                     22
                     11'\         I



           Cottonwood Heights
           City bttuvw the <•IIIJOIIJ




          Appendix 3

        STAFF REPORT

WUI and Fireworks Map Discussion

     Jim Spung/Riley Pilgrim
Public Hearing Needed?       Yes D No ~ Undetermined D
                             Denied D Approved
                             CM Signature:


REQUEST
City staff has prepared a draft ordinance to formally adopt the Utah Wildland Urban Interface (WUI) Code into
both the City's Building Code section and the Fire Code section, as required by HB 48. Adopting the WUI Code
ensures that wildfire-resilient construction and fire-safety standards are fully integrated into the city's
development review and enforcement framework. City staff has also developed a draft WUI Map derived from
the State's data. This map will be adopted by reference into the Fire Code section as part of the same
ordinance package, consistent with HB 48 requirements


BACKGROUND

In 2025, the Utah Legislature adopted HB 48, which requires all state municipalities adopt the Utah Wildland
Urban Interface Code and create a locally adopted WUI map consistent with the state's designated WUI
boundary. The purpose of this legislation is to reduce wildfire risk by establishing uniform building, fire-
prevention, and defensible-space standards for areas where development meets or intermingles with wild land
vegetation. The statute requires that all cities adopt the WUI Code and their respective local WUI maps no
later than January 1, 2026. Failure to do so could result in noncompliance with state law and potential
ineligibility for wildfire mitigation funding or related state programs .

RECOMMENDATION

City staff recommends approval of the WUI Code and Map, as presented.



Attachments:

   1. HB 48/ WUI Fire Code
   2. Draft Ordinance
   3. WUI Map
         Attachment 1
HB 48 / WUI Fire Code
     Enrolled Copy                                                                                H.B. 48

                                   Wildland Urban Interface Modifications
                                            2025 GENERAL SESSION
                                                 STATE OF UTAH
                                           Chief Sponsor: Casey Snider
                                         Senate Sponsor: Michael K. McKell
 2
 3    LONG TITLE
 4    General Description:
 5        This bill addresses effo1is to oversee wildfire risks associated with wildland urban interface
 6    property.
 7    Highlighted Provisions:
 8        This bill:
 9        ►   defines tenns;
10        ►   requires counties to take certain actions related to wildland urban interface property,
11    including assessing a fee;
12        ►   directs the fee to be retained by a county and deposited into the Wildland-urban Interface
13    Prevention, Preparedness, and Mitigation Fund;
14        ►   addresses insuring wildland urban interface property;
15        ►   imposes notice requirements related to insuring wildland mban interface property;
16        ►   requires counties and municipalities to adopt the wildland urban interface building code
17    standards;
18        ►   permits the Division of Forestry, Fire, and State Lands (division) to choose not to cover
19    costs of local governments under certain circumstances;
20        ►   directs the division to establish a program for wildland urban interface coordinators to
21    evaluate, using a triage scale, high risk wildland urban interface property;
22        ►   addresses actions related to evaluating the high risk wildland urban interface property;
23        ►   provides for a database to be accessed by certain insurers related to evaluating high risk
24    wildland urban interface property;
25        ►   authorizes rulemaking;
26        ►   addresses liability; and
27        ►   makes technical changes.
     H.B. 48                                                                               Enrolled Copy


28     Money Appropriated in this Bill:
29         None
30     Other Special Clauses:
31         This bill provides a special effective date.
32     Utah Code Sections Affected:
33     AMENDS:
34         lSA-5-203, as last amended by Laws of Utah 2024, Chapters 2 1,38 1
35         63G-7-201 , as last amended by Laws of Utah 2023, Chapters 34, I 05, 259, 329, 452, and
36         456
37         65A-8-203, as last amended by Laws of Utah 2024, Chapter 77
38         65A-8-215, as last amended by Laws of Utah 2024, Chapter 77
39     ENACTS:
40         17-16-22, Utah Code Annotated 1953
41         31A-22-1310, Utah Code Annotated 1953
42         65A-8-401, Utah Code Annotated 1953
43         65A-8-402, Utah Code Annotated 1953
44         65A-8-403, Utah Code Annotated 1953
45
46     Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:
47             Section 1. Section l SA-5-203 is amended to read:
48             lSA-5-203. Amendments and additions to IFC related to fire safety, building,
49     and site requirements.
50     (I ) For IFC, Chapter 5, Fire Service Features:
51         (a) In IFC, Chapter 5, a new Section 501.5, Access grade and fire flow, is added as
52               follows: "An authority having jurisdiction over a structure built in accordance with
53               the requirements of the International Residential Code as adopted in the State
54               Construction Code, may require an automatic fire sprinkler system for the structure
55               only by ordinance and only if any of the following conditions exist:
56               (i) the structure:
57                   (A) is located in an urban-wildland interface area as provided in the Utah
58                        Wildland Urban Interface Code adopted as a construction code under the State
59                        Construction Code; and
60                   (B) does not meet the requirements described in Utah Code, Subsection 65A-8-203
61                        (4)[W] ill and Utah Administrative Code, R652-l22-l300, Minimum

                                                      -2-
     Enrolled Copy                                                                                       H.B. 48



62                     Standards for County Wildland Fire Ordinance;
63             (ii) the structure is in an area where a public water distribution system with fire
64                 hydrants does not exist as required in Utah Administrative Code, R309-550-5,
65                 Water Main Design;
66             (iii) the only fire apparatus access road has a grade greater than 10% for more than
67                 500 continual feet;
68             (iv) the total floor area of all floor levels within the exterior walls of the dwelling unit
69                 exceeds I 0,000 square feet; or
70             (v) the total floor area of all floor levels within the exterior walls of the dwelling unit
71                 is double the average of the total floor area of all floor levels of unsprinkled
72                 homes in the subdivision that are no larger than I 0,000 square feet.
73             (vi) Exception: A single family dwelling does not require a fire sprinkler system if
74                 the dwelling:
75                 (A) is located outside the wildland urban interface;
76                 (B) is built in a one-lot subdivision; and
77                 (C) has 50 feet of defensible space on all sides that limits the propensity of fire
78                     spreading from the dwelling to another prope11y."
79         (b) In IFC, Chapter 5, Section 506.1, Where Required, is deleted and rewritten as
80             follows: "Where access to or within a structure or an area is restricted because of
81             secured openings or where immediate access is necessary for life-saving or
82             fire-fighting purposes, the fire code official, after consultation with the building
83             owner, may require a key box to be installed in an approved location. The key box
84             shall contain keys to gain necessary access as required by the fire code official. For
85             each fire jurisdiction that has at least one building with a required key box, the fire
86             jurisdiction shall adopt an ordinance, resolution, or other operating rule or policy that
87             creates a process to ensure that each key to each key box is properly accounted for
88             and secure."
89         (c) In IFC, Chapter 5, a new Section 507.1.l, Isolated one- and two-family dwellings, is
90             added as follows: "Fire flow may be reduced for an isolated one- and two-family
91             dwelling when the authority having jurisdiction over the dwelling detennines that the
92             development of a full fire-flow requirement is impractical."
93     (d) In IFC, Chapter 5, a new Section 507.l.2, Pre-existing subdivision lots, is added as follows:
94             "507.1.2 Pre-existing subdivision lots.
95            The requirements for a pre-existing subdivision lot shall not exceed the requirements

                                                      -3-
       H.B.48                                                                                  Enrolled Copy


 96         described in Section 501.5."
 97         (e) In IFC, Chapter 5, Section 507.5.l, here required, a new exception is added: "3. One
 98               interior and one detached accessory dwelling unit on a single residential lot."
 99         (f) IFC, Chapter 5, Section 510.1, Emergency responder communication coverage in
100               new buildings, is amended by adding: "When required by the fire code official,
101               unless the new building is a public school as that tenn is defined in Section
102               53G-9-205.1 or a private school, then the fire code official shall require," at the
l 03              beginning of the first paragraph.
l 04    (2) For IFC, Chapter 6, Building Services and Systems:
105         (a) IFC, Chapter 6, Section 604.6.1, Elevator key location, is deleted and rewritten as
106               follows: "Firefighter service keys shall be kept in a "Supra-Stor-a-key" elevator key
107               box or similar box with conesponding key system that is adjacent to the elevator for
l 08              immediate use by the fire department. The key box shall contain one key for each
109               elevator, one key for lobby control, and any other keys necessary for emergency
110               service. The elevator key box shall be accessed using a 6049 numbered key."
111         (b) IFC, Chapter 6, Section 606.1, General, is amended as follows: On line three, after
112               the word "Code", add the words "and NFPA 96".
113         (c) IFC, Chapter 6, Section 607.2, a new exception 5 is added as follows: "5. A Type l
114               hood is not required for a cooking appliance in a microenterprise home kitchen, as
115              that tennis defined in Utah Code, Section 26B-7-401 , for which the operator obtains
116              a pennit in accordance with Section 26B-7-416."
117     (3) IFC, Chapter 7, Fire and Smoke Protection Features, Section 702.5, is deleted.
118             Section 2. Section 17-16-22 is enacted to read:
119             17-16-22. Wildland urban interface evaluation and fees.
120     ill As used in this section:
121         W "County officer" means the same as that tennis defined in Section 17-16-21.
122         .(hl "High risk wildland urban interface property" means the same as that tennis defined
123               in Section 65A-8-40 l.
124         .(0 "Wildland urban interface" means the same as that term is defined in Section
125               65A-8-40l.
126         @ "Wildland urban interface coordinator" means the same as that tennis defined in
127               Section 65A-8-40l.
128     ill If evaluation of high risk wildland urban interface property is assigned to a county under
129         Section 65A-8-402:

                                                        -4-
       Enrolled Copy                                                                                    H.B. 48



130         W the county shall enter into a cooperative agreement with the Division of Forestry,
131             Fire, and State Lands, in accordance with Subsection 65A-8-203(2)(a), which
132             agreement shall address compliance with this Subsection (2) for evaluation and
133             classification of high risk wildland urban interface property: and
134         (hl a county officer shall require that a wildland urban interface coordinator representing
135             the county annually evaluate high risk wildland urban interface property within the
136             county in accordance with Section 65A-8-402.
137     ill Beginning January 1, 2026, a county officer shall:
138         W annually assess a fee:
139           ill against the property owner of high risk wildland urban interface property within
140                  the incot:porated and unincorporated portions of the county; and
141             (ill in the amount set by the Division of Forestry, Fire, and State Lands under Section
142                  65A-8-402: and
143         Diliil after retaining a portion of the fee under Subsection (3)(b)(ii), transmit the fee
144             assessed under Subsection (3)(a) to the Division of Forestry, Fire, and State Lands
145             for deposit into the Wildland-urban Interface Prevention, Preparedness. and
146             Mitigation Fund created in Section 65A-8-215: and
147             (ill retain that pm1ion of the fee assessed under Subsection (3)(a) necessary to pay
148                  costs incurred by the county in implementing this section, which the county may
149                  include in the county's annual accounting of wildfire prevention, preparedness,
I 50                 mitigation actions, and associated costs for purposes of Subsection
151                  65A-8-203(4)(c).
152     .(11 A county may hold a political subdivision lien on high risk wildland urban interface
153         property for a fee that is past due by following the procedures in Sections l 7B- l -902
154         and l 7B-l-902. l, as if the county is a special district.
155           Section 3. Section 31A-22-1310 is enacted to read:
156           31A-22-1310. Insuring wildland urban interface property.
157     ill As used in this section:
158         W "High risk wildland urban interface property" means the same as that term is defined
159             in Section 65A-8-401.
160         {hl "Wildland urban interface" means the same as that tenn is defined in Section
161             65A-8-401.
162         .(0 "Wildland urban interface property and casualty insurer" means an insurer that issues
163             property or casualty insurance for wildland urban interface property.

                                                         -5-
      H.B. 48                                                                                   Enrolled Copy


164     Glli!} For purposes of determining whether property is high risk wildland urban
165         interface property, a wildland urban interface property and casualty insurer may only
166         use the boundary provided in the wildfire risk assessment mapping tool maintained
167         by the Division of Forestry, Fire, and State Lands in accordance with Subsection
168         65A-8-203(8) to detennine whether the property is high risk wildland urban interface
169         property.
170         .(hl A wildland urban interface property and casualty insurer may use additional fire
171             hazard data, beyond the wildfire risk assessment mapping tool described in
172             Subsection (2)(a), in connection with setting a rate for, or the underwriting of, high
173             risk wild land urban interface propetiy if the wildland urban interface property and
174             casualty insurer's use of additional fire hazard data is in compliance with:
175             ill the boundary determination made in Subsection (2)(a): and
176             (ill this title and department rules made in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3,
177                  Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act.
178         {0 If a property is detennined not to be high risk wildland urban interface in accordance
179             with Subsection (2)(a), this Subsection (2) does not apply to the use of fire hazard
180             data in connection with rate setting or underwriting of the property.
181         (ill This Subsection (2) does not restrict the use of data or underwriting tools in
182             determining risks that are unrelated to fire risk.
183     .Q.).(ru. If an owner of property located within the wildland urban interface files a
184         complaint with the department asserting that a wildland urban interface property and
185         casualty insurer has violated, or is violating, this section, the department may
186         investigate the wildland urban interface property and casualty insurer to determine
187         whether a violation has occurred or is occuning.
188         .(hl If after an investigation under this Subsection (3) the depatiment finds that a
189             wildland urban interface property and casualty insurer has violated or is violating this
190             section. the department may:
191             ill issue prohibito1:y, mandatory, and other orders as necessai:y to secure compliance
192                  with this section; and
193             .(ill impose penalties against the wildland urban interface property and casualty
194                  insurer in accordance with Section 3 l A-2-308.
195     ill In addition to complying with relevant requirements of Section 3 IA-21-303, if due to
196         risks of wildfire a wi ldland urban interface property and casualty insurer:
197         W cancels or non.renews property and casualty insurance covering wildland urban
                                                        -6-
       Enrolled Copy                                                                                   H.B. 48



198             interface property, the wildland urban interface property and casualty insurer shall
199             include in the notice of cancellation or nonrenewal the facts on which the wildland
200             urban interface property and casualty insurer's decision is based with reasonable
201             precision: and
202         ill increases the premium by more than 20% of the previous tenn's premium for
203             property and casualty insurance covering wildland urban interface property, after
204             receipt of a request for the information by the insured the wildland urban interface
205             property and casualty insurer shall provide the insured the facts on which the
206             wildland urban interface property and casualty insurer's decision is based with
207             reasonable precision.
208     ill Subsections(]) through (4) apply on and after January I, 2026.
209     [fil This section does not:
2 10        W create a cause of action for an act or failure to act under this section against:
211             ill the state:
212             (ill the department:
213             (iii) the Division of Forestry. Fire, and State Lands:
214             (iv) an officer, consultant, or employee of the department or Division of Forestry,
215                  Fire, and State Lands:
216             60. a wildland urban interface coordinator, as defined in Section 65A-8-401: or
217             {yi} a county:
218         ill waive governmental immunity in accordance with Subsection 63G-7-201 (5): or
219         W create a cause of action against a wildland urban interface property and casualty
220             insurer for use in accordance with Subsection (2)(a) of the boundary provided in the
221             wildfire risk assessment mapping tool maintained by the Division of Forestry, Fire,
222             and State Lands in accordance with Subsection 65A-8-203(8).
223           Section 4. Section 63G-7-201 is amended to read:
224           63G-7-201 . Immunity of governmental entities and employees from suit.
225     (1) Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each governmental entity and each
226         employee of a governmental entity are immune from suit for any injury that results from
227         the exercise of a governmental function.
228     (2) Notwithstanding the waiver of immunity provisions of Section 63G-7-301 , a
229         governmental entity, its officers, and its employees are immune from suit:
230         (a) as provided in Section 78B-4-517; and
231         (b) for any injury or damage resulting from the implementation of or the failure to

                                                       -7-
      H.B. 48                                                                                 Enrolled Copy


232             implement measures to:
233             (i) control the causes of epidemic and conununicable diseases and other conditions
234                 significantly affecting the public health or necessary to protect the public health as
235                 set out in Title 26A, Chapter 1, Local Health Departments;
236             (ii) investigate and control suspected biote1rnrism and disease as set out in Sections
237                 26B-7-316 through 26B-7-324;
238             (iii) respond to a national, state, or local emergency, a public health emergency as
239                 defined in Section 26B-7-301, or a declaration by the President of the United
240                 States or other federal official requesting public health related activities, including
241                 the use, provision, operation, and management of:
242                 (A) an emergency shelter;
243                 (B) housing;
244                 (C) a staging place; or
245                 (D) a medical facility; and
246             (iv) adopt methods or measures, in accordance with Section 26B-l-202, for health
247                 care providers, public health entities, and health care insurers to coordinate among
248                 themselves to verify the identity of the individuals they serve.
249     (3)(a) A governmental entity, its officers, and its employees are immune from suit, and
250         immunity is not waived, for any injury if the injury arises out of or in connection
251         with, or results from:
252             (i) a latent dangerous or latent defective condition of:
253                 (A) any highway, road, street, alley, crosswalk, sidewalk, culvert, tunnel, bridge,
254                      or viaduct; or
255                 (B) another structure located on any of the items listed in this Subsection (3)(a)(i);
256                      or
257             (ii) a latent dangerous or latent defective condition of any public building, structure,
258                 dam, reservoir, or other public improvement.
259         (b)(i) As used in this Subsection (3)(b):
260                 (A) "Contaminated land" means the same as that term is defined in Section
261                      11-58-102.
262                 (B) "Contamination" means the condition ofland that results from the placement,
263                      disposal, or release of hazardous matter on, in, or under the land, including any
264                      seeping or escaping of the hazardous matter from the land.
265                 (C) "Damage" means any property damage, personal injury, or other injury or any

                                                        -8-
      Enrolled Copy                                                                                 H.B. 48


266                   loss of any kind, however denominated.
267               (D) "Environmentally compliant" means, as applicable, obtaining a certificate of
268                   completion from the Department of Environmental Quality under Section
269                   19-8-111 following participation in a voluntary cleanup under Title 19, Chapter
270                   8, Voluntary Cleanup Program, obtaining an administrative letter from the
271                   Depa1iment of Environmental Quality for a discrete phase of a voluntary
272                   cleanup that is conducted under a remedial action plan as defined in Section
273                    11-58-605, or complying with the tenns of an environmental covenant, as
274                   defined in Section 57-25-102, signed by an agency, as defined in Section
275                   57-25-102, and duly recorded in the office of the recorder of the county in
276                   which the contaminated land is located.
277               (E) "Government owner" means a governmental entity, including an independent
278                   entity, as defined in Section 63E-l-l 02, that acquires an ownership interest in
279                   land that was contaminated land before the governmental entity or independent
280                   entity acquired an ownership interest in the land.
281               (F) "Hazardous matter" means hazardous materials, as defined in Section 19-6-302,
282                   hazardous substances, as defined in Section 19-6-302, or landfill material , as
283                   defined in Section 11-58-102.
284               (G) "Remediation" means the same as that term is defined in Section 11-58-102.
285           (ii)(A) A government owner and the government owner's officers and employees
286               are immune from suit, and immunity is not waived, for any claim for damage
287               that arises out of or in connection with, or results from, contamination of
288               contaminated land.
289               (B) A government owner's ownership of contaminated land may not be the basis
290                   of a claim against the government owner for damage that arises out of or in
291                   connection with, or results from, contamination of contaminated land.
292           (iii) Subsection (3)(b)(ii) does not limit or affect:
293               (A) the liability of a person that placed, disposed of, or released hazardous matter
294                   on, in, or under the land; or
295               (B) a worker compensation clain1 of an employee of an entity that conducts work
296                   on or related to contaminated land.
297           (iv) Immunity under Subsection (3)(b)(ii)(A) is not affected by a government owner's
298               remediation of contaminated land if the government owner is environmentally
299               compliant.

                                                      -9-
      H.B.48                                                                                  Enrolled Copy


300    (4) A governmental entity, its officers, and its employees are immune from suit, and
301        immunity is not waived, for any injury proximately caused by a negligent act or
302        omission of an employee committed within the scope of employment, if the injury arises
303        out of or in connection with, or results from:
304        (a) the exercise or performance, or the failure to exercise or perfonn, a discretionary
305            function, whether or not the discretion is abused;
306        (b) except as provided in Subsections 63G-7-301(2)(j), (3), and (4), assault, battery,
307            false imprisonment, false arrest, malicious prosecution, intentional h·espass, abuse of
308            process, libel, slander, deceit, interference with contract rights, infliction of mental
309            anguish, or violation of civil rights;
310        (c) the issuance, denial, suspension, or revocation of, or the failure or refusal to issue,
311            deny, suspend, or revoke, any pennit, license, certificate, approval, order, or similar
312            authorization;
313        (d) a failure to make an inspection or making an inadequate or negligent inspection;
314        (e) the institution or prosecution of any judicial or administrative proceeding, even if
315            malicious or without probable cause;
316        (f) a misrepresentation by an employee whether or not the misrepresentation is negligent
317            or intentional;
318        (g) a riot, unlawful assembly, public demonstration, mob violence, or civil disturbance;
319        (h) the collection or assessment of taxes;
320        (i) an activity of the Utah National Guard;
321        (j) the incarceration of a person in a state prison, county or city jail, or other place of
322            legal confinement;
323        (k) a natural condition on publicly owned or controlled land;
324        (I) a condition existing in connection with an abandoned mine or mining operation;
325        (m) an activity authorized by the School and Institutional Trust Lands Administration or
326            the Division of Forestry, Fire, and State Lands;
327        (n) the operation or existence of a trail that is along a water facility, as defined in Section
328            73-1-8, stream, or river, regardless of ownership or operation of the water facility,
329            stream, or river, if:
330            (i) the trail is designated under a general plan adopted by a municipality under
331                 Section 10-9a-401 or by a county under Section l 7-27a-401;
332            (ii) the trail right-of-way or the right-of-way where the trail is located is open to
333                 public use as evidenced by a written agreement between:

                                                        - 10 -
       Enrolled Copy                                                                                    H.B. 48


334                  (A) the owner or operator of the trail right-of-way or of the right-of-way where the
335                      trail is located; and
336                  (B) the municipality or county where the trail is located; and
337             (iii) the written agreement:
338                  (A) contains a plan for operation and maintenance of the trail; and
339                  (B) provides that an owner or operator of the trail right-of-way or of the
340                      right-of-way where the trail is located has, at a minimum, the same level of
34 1                     immunity from suit as the governmental entity in connection with or resulting
342                      from the use of the trail;
343         (o) research or implementation of cloud management or seeding for the clearing of fog;
344         (p) the management of flood waters, earthquakes, or natural disasters;
345         (q) the construction, repair, or operation of flood or stom1 systems;
346         (r) the operation of an emergency vehicle, while being driven in accordance with the
347             requirements of Section 41-6a-212;
348         (s) the activity of:
349             (i) providing emergency medical assistance;
350             (ii) fighting fire;
351             (iii) regulating, mitigating, or handling hazardous materials or hazardous wastes;
352             (iv) an emergency evacuation;
353             (v) transpotting or removing an injured person to a place where emergency medical
354                  assistance can be rendered or where the person can be transported by a licensed
355                  ambulance service; or
356             (vi) intervening during a dam emergency;
357         (t) the exercise or perfonnance, or the failure to exercise or perform, any function
358             pursuant to Title 73, Chapter 10, Board of Water Resources - Division of Water
359             Resources;
360         (u) an unauthorized access to government records, data, or electronic infom1ation
361             systems by any person or entity;
362         (v) an activity of wildlife, as defined in Section 23A-l-101 , that arises during the use of
363             a public or private road;
364         (w) a conununication between employees of one or more law enforcement agencies
365             related to the employment, disciplinary history, character, professional competence,
366             or physical or mental health of a peace officer, or a fonner, current, or prospective
367             employee of a law enforcement agency, including any communication made in

                                                      - 11 -
      H.B. 48                                                                                     Enrolled Copy


368              accordance with Section 53-14-103; or
369         (x) providing or failing to provide information under Section 53-27-102 or Subsection
370              41-la-213(6), (7), or (8), 53-3-207(4), or 53-3-805(5).
371     ill The following are immune from suit. and immunity is not waived for an action or
372         failure to act within the scope of duties or employment, if the injury arises out of, in
373         connection with, or results from the implementation of Section 17-16-22 to the extent it
374         addresses evaluating and classifying high risk wildland urban interface property, Section
375         31A-22-1310, or Title 65A, Chapter 8, Part 4, Wildland Urban Interface Property:
376         .uD the Division of Forestry, Fire, and State Lands:
377         .(hl an officer, employee, or consultant of the Division of Forestry, Fire, and State Lands:
378         w a county:
379         @ a wildland urban interface coordinator, as defined in Section 65A-8-40 l;
380         W the Insurance Department: or
381         ill an officer, employee, or consultant of the Insurance Department.
382             Section 5. Section 65A-8-203 is amended to read:
383             65A-8-203 . Cooperative fire protection agreements with eligible entities.
384     (1) As used in this section:
385         (a) "Eligible entity" means:
386              (i) a county, a municipality, or a special service district, special district, or service
387                   area with:
388                   (A) wildland fire suppression responsibility as described in Section 11-7-1; and
389                   (B) wildland fire suppression cost responsibility and taxing authority for a specific
390                       geographic jurisdiction; or
391               (ii) upon approval by the director, a political subdivision established by a county,
392                   municipality, special service district, special district, or service area that is
393                   responsible for:
394                   (A) providing wildland fire suppression services; and
395                   (B) paying for the cost of wildland fire suppression services.
396         (b) "Fire service provider" means a public or private entity that fulfills the duties of
397               Subsection 11-7-1(1).
398     (2)(a) The governing body of any eligible entity may enter into a cooperative agreement
399         with the division to receive financial and wildfire management cooperation and
400         assistance from the division, as described in this part.
401         (b) A cooperative agreement shall last for a term of no more than five years and be

                                                         - 12 -
      Enrolled Copy                                                                                    H.B. 48



402            renewable if the eligible entity continues to meet the requirements of this chapter.
403    (3)(a) The state shall assume an eligible entity's cost of suppressing catastrophic wildfire
404        as defined in the cooperative agreement if the eligible entity has entered into, and is
405        in full compliance with, a cooperative agreement with the division, as described in
406        this section.
407        (b) A county or municipality that is not covered by a cooperative agreement with the
408            division, as described in this section, shall be responsible for wildland fire costs
409            within the county or municipality's jurisdiction, as described in Section 65A-8-203.2.
410    (4) To enter into a cooperative agreement with the division, the eligible entity shall:
411        [W iftb:e eligible et1tity is a county, adopt and enforce on unincorporated lattd a
412            wildland ftre ordinance based upon minimum standards established by the division or
413            Uniform Buildit1g Code Commission;]
414        [Ebt] W require that the fire depaiiment or equivalent fire service provider under contract
415            with, or delegated by, the eligible entity on unincorporated land meet minimum
416            standards for wildland fire training, certification, and suppression equipment based
417            upon nationally accepted standards as specified by the division;
418        [W] ili} invest in prevention, preparedness, and mitigation efforts, as agreed to with the
419            division, that will reduce the eligible entity's risk of catastrophic wildfire;
420        [td:}] W(i) file with the division an annual accounting of wildfire prevention,
421            preparedness, mitigation actions, and associated costs;
422            (ii) meet the eligibility entity's participation commitment by making direct payments
423                 to the division; or
424            (iii) do a combination of Subsections [(4)(d)(i) and (ii)] (4)(c)(i) and (ii);
425        [W]@ return the financial statement described in Subsection (6), signed by the chief
426            executive of the eligible entity, to the division on or before the date set by the
427            division;[-mtti]
428        [Et}] W if the eligible entity is a county, have a designated fire warden as described in
429            Section 65A-8-209. l [:-] ~
430        ill subject to Subsection (9), adopt and enforce the wildland urban interface building
431            standards, as defined in Section 65A-8-401. if the eligible entity is a:
432            ill county for purposes of an unincorporated area within the county; or
433            @ municipality for an incorporated area within a county: and
434        .(g} if the eligible entity is a county, comply with Section 17-16-22.
435    (5)(a) The state forester may execute a cooperative agreement with the eligible entity.

                                                      - 13 -
      H.B. 48                                                                                 Enrolled Copy


436         (b) The division shall make rules, in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah
437             Administrative Rulemaking Act, governing the:
438             (i) cooperative agreements described in this section;
439             (ii) manner in which an eligible entity shall provide proof of compliance with
440                  Subsection (4);
441             (iii) manner by which the division may revoke a cooperative agreement if an eligible
442                 entity ceases to meet the requirements described in this section;
443             (iv) accounting system for detennining suppression costs;
444             (v) manner in which the division shall determine the eligible entity's participation
445                 commitment; and
446             (vi) manner in which an eligible entity may appeal a division determination.
447     (6)(a) The division shall send a financial statement to each eligible entity participating in
448         a cooperative agreement that details the eligible entity's participation commitment for
449         the coming fiscal year, including the prevention, preparedness, and mitigation actions
450         agreed to under Subsection (4)[fe7] (hl.
451         (b) Each eligible entity participating in a cooperative agreement shall:
452             (i) have the chief executive of the eligible entity sign the financial statement, or the
453                  legislative body of the eligible entity approve the financial statement by
454                  resolution, confirming the eligible entity's participation for the upcoming year; and
455             (ii) return the financial statement to the division, on or before a date set by the
456                 division.
457         (c) A financial statement shall be effective for one calendar year, beginning on the date
458             set by the division, as described in Subsection (6)(b).
459     (7)(a) An eligible entity may revoke a cooperative agreement before the end of the
460         cooperative agreement's tem1 by:
461             (i) infom1ing the division, in writing, of the eligible entity's intention to revoke the
462                  cooperative agreement; or
463             (ii) failing to sign and return its annual financial statement, as described in
464                  Subsection (6)(b), unless the director grants an extension.
465         (b) An eligible entity may not revoke a cooperative agreement before the end of the te1m
466             of a signed annual financial statement, as described in Subsection (6)(c).
467     (8)(a) The division shall develop and maintain a wildfire risk assessment mapping tool
468         that is online and publicly accessible.
469         (b)[EB] The di vision shall analyze [adding an additional high risk eategory] and

                                                       - 14 -
       Enrolled Copy                                                                                   H.B. 48



470             establish by rule, made in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah
471             Administrative Rulemaking Act, boundaries for high risk wildland urban interface
472             property and what constitutes wildland urban interface property that is not high
4 73            risk within the wildfire risk assessment mapping tool described in Subsection
474             (8)(a):
4 75                [W] ill using a scientific assessment; and
476                 [fB}] (ill that is focused on the risk to dwellings within the wildland[-] _urban interface
477                       area.
4 78            [fiB The division shall report the results of the division's aflalysis under this
479                 Subseetion (8)(b) to the ~.fatural Resourees, Agriettlture, and Envirnnmet1t lflterim
480                 Committee by no later than the 2024 Nove1nber iriterim meeting of that eommittee.]
481         ( c) With regard to the categories used within the wildfire risk assessment mapping tool
482             described in Subsection (8)(a), the division may adjust the assessment for
483             participation commitments if the adjustment is based on the Consumer Price Index
484             for All Urban Consumers as published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the
485             United States Department of Labor, in accordance with a fonnula established by the
486             division by rule made in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative
487             Rulemaking Act.
488     .(2)W If the state under Section 15A-2-103 adopts an edition of the Utah Wildland
489         Urban Interface Code, issued by the International Code Council, with the alternatives
490         or amendments approved by the division, as a wildland urban interface building
491         standard that may be adopted by a local compliance agency:
492             ill for purposes of an unincorporated area within a county, the county shall adopt and
493                 enforce the wildland urban interface building standard described in this
494                 Subsection (9)(a): and
495             (ill for purposes of an incorporated area within a county. the relevant municipality
496                 shall adopt and enforce the wildland urban interface building standard described
497                 in this Subsection (9)(a).
498         {hl If a county or municipality fails to comply with Subsections (4)(f) and (9)(a). the
499             division may choose to not pay costs of the county or municipality under a
500             cooperative agreement executed under this section.
501         (£)ill If the state adopts a different wildland urban interface building standard than
502             was previously adopted under Section 15A-2-103. a county or municipality has
503             two years from the date the state adopts the different wildland urban interface

                                                      - 15 -
       H.B. 48                                                                                 Enrolled Copy


504               building standard to adopt the appropriate wildland urban interface building
505               standard.
506               .(ill If a county or municipality fails to adopt the appropriate wildland urban interface
507                    building standard within the time period described in Subsection (9)(c)(i). the
508                    division may choose to not pay costs of the county or municipality under a
509                    cooperative agreement executed under this section beginning two years from the
510                    day on which the state adopts the different wildland urban interface building
511                    standard and until such time as the county or municipality adopts the appropriate
512                    wildland urban interface building standard.
5 I3             Section 6. Section 65A-8-215 is amended to read:
514              65A-8-215 . Wildland-urban interface fire prevention, preparedness, and
515      mitigation.
516      ( 1) As used in this section:
517          (a) "Prevention, preparedness, and mitigation fund" means the Wildland-urban Interface
518                Prevention, Preparedness, and Mitigation Fund created in this section.
519          (b) "Suppression fund" means the Wildland Fire Suppression Fund created in Section
520                65A-8-204.
521          ( c) "W ildland-urban interface" means the zone where structures and other human
522                development meets, or intenningles with, undeveloped wildland.
523      (2)(a) There is created an expendable special revenue fund known as the
524          "Wildland-urban Interface Prevention, Preparedness, and Mitigation Fund."
525          (b) The prevention, preparedness, and mitigation fund shall consist of:
526                (i) interest and earnings from the investment of money from the prevention,
527                    preparedness, and mitigation fund;
528                (ii) money received as direct payment from cooperative wildfire system paiticipation
529                    commitments;
530                (iii) money appropriated by the Legislature;[-and]
531                (iv) money transferred to the prevention, preparedness, and mitigation fund under
532                    Section 63J- l-3 l 4[:-] : and
533                .(tl fees deposited into the prevention, preparedness, and mitigation fund under
534                    Section 17-16-22.
535          (c) The division shall administer the prevention, preparedness, and mitigation fund to:
536                (i) pay costs of prevention and preparedness efforts on wildland-urban interface
537                    within the state, as defined by the division by rule made in accordance with Title

                                                        - 16 -
      Enrolled Copy                                                                                   H.B. 48



538                  63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, including costs of an
539                  eligible entity that has entered into a cooperative agreement, as described in
540                  Section 65A-8-203;
541             (ii) issue fire department assistance grants, which in the aggregate may not exceed
542                  10% of the money in the prevention, preparedness, and mitigation fund each fiscal
543                  year; and
544             (iii) in cases of catastrophic need as detennined by the state forester, pay costs that
545                  could be paid from the suppression fund under Section 65A-8-204.
546         (d) Disbursements from the prevention, preparedness, and mitigation fund may only be
547             made upon written order of the state forester or the state forester's authorized
548             representative.
549     (3)(a) The division may by rule, made in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah
550         Administrative Rulemaking Act, establish criteria for community wildfire
551         preparedness plans addressing wildland-urban interface. The criteria shall require
552         action that is:
553             (i) qualitative and quantitative; and
554             (ii) leads to reduced wildfire risk.
555         (b) An eligible entity, as defined in Section 65A-8-203, shall agree to implement
556             prevention, preparedness, and mitigation actions identified in a conununity wildfire
557             preparedness plan addressing wildland-urban interface that is approved by the
558             division.
559           Section 7. Section 65A-8-401 is enacted to read:
560                                   Part 4. Wildland Urban Interface Property

561           65A-8-401 . Definitions.
562        As used in this section:
563     ill "High risk wildland urban interface property" means property located within the
564         boundary of high risk wildland urban interface as designated by the wildfire risk
565         assessment tool in Subsection 65A-8-203(8)(a) and defined by rule made in accordance
566         with Subsection 65A-8-402(5)(a).
567     ill "Triage scale" means a scale with three classifications adopted by the division to
568         evaluate and classify property located within the wildland urban interface as to what
569         actions are needed to prepare the property for fire.
570     ill "Wildland urban interface" means the same as that term is defined in Section
571         65A-8a-102.
                                                        - 17 -
       H.B. 48                                                                                  Enrolled Copy


572      ill "Wildland urban interface building standards" means the edition of the Utah Wildland
573          Urban Interface Code adopted under Section l5A-2-103.
574      ill "Wildland urban interface coordinator" means a representative of the division or a
575          county who evaluates and classifies wildland urban interface property in accordance
576          with Section 65A-8-402.
577      .(fil "Wildland urban interface property and casualty insurer" means the same as that tenn is
578          defined in Section 31A-22-13l0.
579              Section 8. Section 65A-8-402 is enacted to read:
580              65A-8-402. Evaluation of wild land urban interface property -- Fee amounts --
581      Rulemaking.
582      .Ll..lu!)_ The division shall establish a program under which a wildland urban interface
583          coordinator evaluates and classifies high risk wildland urban interface property using
584          a triage scale.
585          {hl_ The wildland urban interface coordinator shall be:
586               ill a representative of the division; or
587               (ill if the evaluation and classification is assigned to a county. a representative of the
588                    county.
589          (d At the beginning of each calendar year, the division shall dete1mine whether to
590                assign evaluation and classification under this section of high risk wildland urban
591                interface property to a county.
592      ill After completing the evaluation and classification under this section, the wildland urban
593          interface coordinator shall infonn a property owner of property described in Subsection
594          (1 )(a) of:
595          W the classification assigned to the property described in Subsection (l)(a) under the
596                triage scale;
597          ill the fee the property owner shall pay under Section 17-16-22: and
598          .(0 resources from the division or county that the property owner may access to bring the
599                property described in Subsection (ll(a) to the first or second classification by
600                applying wildland urban interface building standards.
60 l     ill As pait of the program established under this section, the division:
602          W may provide resources to a property owner described in Subsection (2)(b) to
603                facilitate the property owner bringing the property described in Subsection (l)(a) to
604                the first or second classification under the triage scale; and
605          ill beginning on Januaiy l, 2028, shall develop and maintain a database that may be
                                                         - 18 -
      Enrolled Copy                                                                                    H.B. 48



606            accessed by a wildland urban interface property and casualty insurer to learn the
607            classification under the triage scale for any portion of high risk wildland urban
608            interface property to be covered by the wildland urban interface property and casualty
609            insurer.
610    0:).W The division shall annually set a fee amount that is based on the square footage of
611        a structure within the high risk wildland urban interface to pay for the costs
612        associated with the implementation of this part to be assessed and collected by a
613        county in accordance with Section 17-16-22.
614        (hl The division may tier the fee amount to account for what level on the triage scale a
615            property is assigned by a wildland urban interface coordinator.
616    ill The division may make rules. in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3. Utah
617        Administrative Rulemaking Act, to:
618        U!} define high risk wildland urban interface property and wildland urban interface
619            property that is not high risk as provided in Subsection 65A-8-203(8)(b);
620        Du establish the criteria used to evaluate and classify property located within high risk
621            wildland urban interface property;
622        W create a process by which the division and counties communicate classifications
623            assigned to property described in Subsection ( 1)(a);
624        @ create a process for communicating to a property owner the infonnation described in
625            Subsection (2):
626        W establish how the division may provide resources under Subsection (3):
627        ill create a process for a wildland urban interface property and casualty insurer to learn
628            the classification described in Subsection (3)(b): and
629        .(g} establish how the fee amount described in Subsection (4) is set.
630          Section 9. Section 65A-8-403 is enacted to read:
631          65A-8-403 . Liability.
632       This part does not create a cause of action against the state. the division, an officer.
633    employee. or consultant of the division. a county. or a wildland urban interface coordinator for
634    an act or failure to act under this part and does not waive governmental immunity in
635    accordance with Subsection 63G-7-201 (5).
636          Section 10. Effective Date.
637    This bill takes effect on January I. 2026.




                                                     - 19 -
  2006 UTAH
WILDLAND-URBAN
 INTERFACE CODE




                  INTERNATIONAL
                  CODE COUNCIL®
                                             2006 Utah Wildland-Urban Interface Code




                                                     Fi,:1·1 Printing: July 2006
                                                  Second Prin1i11g: October 2006
                                                   Third Priming: March 2007
                                                  Fourth Priming: February 2008
                                                     Fifth Priming: June 2008




                                                   COPYRIGHT© 2006
                                                           by
                                            INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL, INC.




ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. This 2006 Utah Wildla11d-Urba11 lnte,.face Code contains substantial copytighted materi al from the
2003 lntemational Wildland-Urban lnre,face Code, which is a copyrighted work owned by the Internationa l Code Council, Inc .
Without advance written permission from the copyright owner, no part of this book may be reproduced, distributed or transmitted in
any fom1 or by any means, including, without limitation, electronic, optical or mechanical means (by way of example and not limita-
tion , photocopying, or recording by or in an information storage retrieval system). For information on permission to copy material
exceeding fair use, please contact: Publications, 405 1 West Flossmoor Road, Country Club Hills, IL 60478-577 l. Phone
1-888-ICC-SAFE (422-7233).

Trademarks: "International Code Council," the " International Code Council" logo and the "International Res idential Code" are
trademarks of the International Code Council, Inc.




                                                     PRINTED IN THE U.S.A.
                                                               PREFACE

Introduction
Internationally, code officials recogni ze the need for a modern, up-to-date code addressing the mitigation o f fu-e in the urban-wildland in-
terface. T he lntenwrional Wild/and-Urban l11te1face Code '" , in this 2003 edition, is designed to bridge the gap between enforcement of the
International Building Code® and International Fire Code® by mitigating the hazard of wildfires through model code regulations. which
safegu ard the public health and safety in all communities, large and small .
    This comprehens ive urban-w ildland interface code establishes minimum regulations for land use and the built e nvironment in desig-
nated urban-wildland interface areas using prescriptive and performance-related provisions. lt is founded o n data collected from tests and
fu-e incidents, technical reports and miti gation s trategies fro m around the world. T his 2003 edition is full y compatible with all the lntema-
tional Codes"·' ("I-Codes•· 'M l publ ished by the International Code Counc il® (ICC®), inc luding the !111em ario11al Building Code®, ICC
Electrical Code'M, lntemarional Energy Conservation Code®, lntemarional Existing B11iliding Code®. lnrernarional fire Code®, /r11erna-
rional Fuel Gas Code®, International Mechw1ica/ Code®. ICC Performance Code"-'. fllren1miona/ P/11mbil1g Code®, lntemational Pri-
vate Sewage Disposal Code®, /Juernarional Propeny Maimenan~e Code®, fllremaria11a/ Residential Code'® and lntem ationa/ Zoning
Code®.

   The lnremarional Wild!allll-Urban lnte1:fc1ce Code provisions provide many benefits, inc luding the model code development process,
which offers an internationa l forum for tire safety profess ional s to di scuss performance and prescriptive code requirements. T his fo ru m
provides an excellent are na to debate proposed revisions. T his model code also encourages international consistency in the appl ication o f
provisions.


Development
This is the first editio n of the lntemarirmal Wildlallll-Urba11 b11e1:fl1ce Code (2003) and is the culmination of an effort initiated in 200 I by
the ICC and the three statutory members of the Lnternational Code Council : Bui Iding Officials and Co de Administrators I nternationa l, Inc.
(BOCA), Internationa l Conference of Building Officials (IC BO) and Southern Building Code Congress Internati onal (SB CCI). The intent
was to draft a comprehensive set of regulations for mitigating the hazard to li fe and property from the intrusion of fire from wi ld land ex po-
s ures and fire from adjacent structures, and preventing s u·ucrure fires from spreading to wi ldland fuels. Technical content of the 2000
Wild/and- Urban !nte1face Code, published by the International Fire Code Institu te, was uti lized as the basis for the development, fol lowed
by the publication of the 200 I Final Draft. This 2003 editio n is based on the Final Dra ft, w ith changes approved in the 2002 ICC Code De-
ve lopment Process. A new editio n s uch as this is promulgated every three years.
   With the development and publication of the family of lntematio11al Codes in 2000, the continued developmem and maintenance of the
model codes individually promulgated by BOCA ("BOCA National Codes"), lCBO ("Uniform Codes") and S BCCI ("Standard Codes")
was di scontinued. The 2003 lnrernario11al Codes, as well as thei r predecessors-the 2000 /111emmional Codes-are inte nded to be the suc-
cessor set of codes to those codes prev iously developed by BOCA, ICBO and SBCC I.


   The development of a sing le fam ily o f comprehensive and coordinated lnrernarin11a/ Codes was a significant milestone in the develop-
me nt of regulations for the built enviro nment. The timing of this pu blicatio n mirrors a milestone in the change in structure of the model
codes, namely, the pend ing consolidation of BOCA, ICBO and S BCCI into the ICC. The activities and services previous ly provided by the
individual model code organizations will be the responsibility of the consolidated ICC.


   This code is founded on principles intended to m itigate the hazard from fires through the development of provisions that adequately pro-
tect public health, safety and welfare; provisio ns that d o not unnecessarily increase construction costs; p rovisions that do not restrict the use
of new materials, products or methods of construction; and provisions that do not g ive preferential treatment to particular types or classes of
materials, products o r methods of construction.


Adoption
The fllrernatirma/ Wi/dland-Urba11 lnte1face Code is available for adoptio n and use by jurisdictions internationally. Its use within agovern-
mentaljuri sdiction is intended to be accomplished through adoption by re ference in accordance with proceedings establishing the jurisdic-
tio n's laws. At the time of adoptio n, jurisdictions s ho uld inse1t the appropriate information in provisions requiring s pecific local
info rmatio n, such as the name of the adopting jurisdictio n. These locations are shown in bracketed wo rds in s mal l capital letters in the code
and in the sample ordinance. The sample ado ptio n ordinance on page v addresses several key elements of a code adoption ordinance,
including the information required for insertion into the code text.




2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE                                                                                                           iii
Maintenance
The lntemational Wi/dla11d-Urban lme,face Code is kept up-to-date through the review of proposed changes submitted by code
enforcing officials, industry representatives, design professionals and other interested parties. Proposed changes are carefully
consiclerecl through an open code development process in which al l interested and affected parties may participate.
   The contents of thi s work are subject to change both through the Code Development Cycles and the governmental body that enacts the
code into law. For more information regm·ding the code development process, contact the Code and Standard Development Depaitment of
the International Code Council.
    Although the development procedure of the flltematio1wl Wi/dla11d-Urba11 /111e1face Code assures the highest degree of care, ICC and
the founding members ofICC-BOCA, ICBO and SBCCl-their members and those participating in the developmenl of thi s code do not
accept any liability resulting from compli ance or noncompliance w ith the provisions, because I CC and i ts founding members do not have
the power or authority to police or enforce compliance with tbe contents of this code. On ly the governmental body that enacts the code into
law has such authority.


Authority
The Division is required to establ ish minimum standards for a wildland fire ordinance and specify minimum standards for wildlancl fire
training, certification and wildland fire suppression equipment in accordance with subsections 65A-8-6(3)(a) and 65A-8-6(3)(b). This re-
quirement is promulgated under general rule-making authority of subsection 65A- 1-4(2).




iv                                                                                     2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
                                                            ORDINANCE
The /n/emarional Codes are designed and promulgated to be adopted by reference by ordi nance. Jurisdic ti ons wishi ng to adopt the 2003
l mernariona/ Wild/and-Urban lnte1Jace Code as an en forceable regulation for the mitigation of fire in the urban-wi ldl and i nterface should
ensure that certai n factual i nfom1ation is i ncluded i n the adopting ordinance at the time adoption is being considered by the appropriate
governmental body. T he fol lowing sample adoption ordi nance addresses several key elements of a code adoption ordi nance, i ncluding the
information required for inse1tion i nto the code text.


Minimum Standards for Wildland Fire Ordinance
T he division uses the /111emaliona/ Wild/and-Urban I nte1face Code as a basis for establishing the min imum standards discussed in this
document. A county ordi nance that at least meets the mini mum standards should be in place by September 2006.
1l1e D ivision incorporates by reference the 2003 l nremarional Code Council Wildla11d-Urba11 /111e1face Code as the minimum standard
for wildlancl tire ordinance in conjunction w ith Utah requi rements.



               SAMPLE ORDINANCE FOR ADOPTION OF
       THE INTERNATIONAL WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
                                             ORDINANCE NO.- -- - - - -
An ordi nance of the [JURISDICTION] adopting the 2003 edition of the l m enuuional Wild/and-Urbm1 !llre,face Code as currently
amended by the divi sion of Forestry, Fi re and State L ands, regulating and governi ng the mitigation of hazard to Life and propeIty from the
intrusion of fire from wi Id l and exposures, fi re from adjacent structures and prevemion of structure fires from spreading to wildland fuels i n
the [JURISDICTION] ; providing for the issuance of penni ts and collection of fees therefor; repeal ing Ordi nance No. ___ of the JJ.U.:
RISDICTION] and all other ordinances and parts of the ordinances i n conflict therewith.


T he (GOVERNING BODY] of the [JURISDICTION] does ordai n as follows:


Section 1. T hat a certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the [TITLE OF JURISDICTION'S KEEPER OF RE-
CORDS] of (NAME OF JURISDICTION] . being marked and designated as the l ntemario11a/ Wildh111d-Urba11 l nte1face Code. 2003 ed i-
tion, i ncluding Appendix Chapters [FILL IN THE APPENDIX CHAPTERS BEING ADOPTED ], as published by the International Code
Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Urban-Wildland Interface Code of the (JURISDICTION] , in the State of (STATE NAME] for reg-
ulating and governi ng the mitigation of hazard to life and property from the intrusion of fire from w i ldland exposures, fire from adjacent
structures and prevention of structure fires from spreading to wi ldland fuel s as herei n provided; providing for the issuance of penn its and
collection of fees therefor; and each and al l of the regu l ations, provisions, penalties, conditions and te1ms of said Urban-Wi ldland Interface
Code on fi le in the office of the [JURISDICTION] are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if ful ly set out in this ordi-
nance, with the addi tions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescri bed in Section 2 of this ordinance.


Section 2. The fol lowing sections are hereby revi sed:


   Section 10 I. I. I nsert: (NAME OF JURISDICTION]


Section 3. That Ordinance No. ___ of [JURISDICTION] entitled (FILL IN HERE THE COMPLETE TITLE OF THE ORDINANCE OR OR-
DINANCES IN EFFECT AT THE PRESENT TIME SO THAT THEY WILL BE REPEALED BY DEFINITE MENTION] and all other ordinances or
pa.it s of ordinances i n cont1ict herewitl1 are hereby repealed.


Section 4. That i f any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this ordinance is. for any reason, held to be unconstitutional, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining porti ons of this ordinance. The (GOVERNING BODY] hereby decl ares that it would
have passed thi s ordi nance, and each section , subsection, clause or phrase thereof, irrespecti ve of the fact that any one or more sections, sub-
sections, sentences, clauses and phrases be declared unconstitutional.


Section 5. T hat nothi ng in this ordi nance or i n the Wildland-Urba11 f nle1j£1ce Code hereby adopted shall be constrned to affect any sui t or
proceeding impendi ng in any coun , or any rights acquired, or liability incurred. or any cause or causes of action acquired or existing, under
any act or ordinance hereby repealed as cited in Section 2 of this ordinance; nor shall any just or legal right or remedy of any character be
lost, impaired or affected by thi s ordinance.




2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE                                                                                                           V
Section 6. That the [JURISDICTION'S KEEPER OF RECORDS] is hereby ordered and directed to cause this ordinance to be published.
(An additional provi sion may be required to direct the number of times the ordinance is to be published and to specify that it is to be in a
newspaper in general circulation. Posting may also be required.)
Section 7. T hat this ordinance and the rules. regu lations. provisions, requirements, orders and matters established and adopted hereby
shall take effect and be in full force and effect [TIME PERIOD] from and after the date of its final passage and adoption.
Section 8. Specific boundaries of natural or man-made features of wildland- urban interface areas sha.11 be as shown on the w ildland area
interface map. The legal description of such areas is as described as follows: [INSERT LEGAL DESCRIPTION)




vi                                                                                      2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
                                                               TABLE OF CONTENTS


CHAPTER 1                 ADMINISTRATION . . ............ . 1                                 CHAPTER 6               FIRE-PROTECTION
Section                                                                                                               REQUIREMENTS ... .. .......... 19
10 l       General . ... .... .. . .... ................. ... I                               Section

l02        A uthority of the Code Official . . . . .. .. . .. . . .... l                      60 l      General . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
I 03       Compliance Alternatives . ........... . ... . ..... 2                              603       Defensible Space ... . ............ . .... . ..... 19
I 04       Appeals . ... ..... .... ........ .. ...... . ... .. 2                             604       Maintenance of Defensib le Space ... . . ... ... ... 20

I 05       Permits . ... ..... .... ................ .. . ... 2                               605       Spark A1Testers ....... . ... ........ ..... . ... 20

I 06       Plans and Specifications .... .... .. ... ... . .. .. . 3                          606       Liquefied Petroleum Gas Installations ... . ...... 20

l07        Lnspection and Enforcement . .... . .. . . . ... .. . .. 4                         607       Storage of Firewood and
                                                                                                        Combustible Materi als ... . . .. . ...... ... ..... 20
I 08       Certificate of Completion ... .... . . .. ... . . .. ... 5
                                                                                              APPENDIX A GENERAL REQUIREM ENTS .. . .. 21
CHAPTER 2                 DEFINITIONS ......... ...... .... 7                                 Section
Secti on                                                                                      A IOI General ................ . .... . . ......... . . 2 1
20 I       General ............ ............... ........ 7                                    A I 02 Vegetation Control ... . .. ..... ..... ... ...... 2 1
202        Definitions . . .. . ................ .. . . .. . ..... 7                          A I 03 Access Restri ctions . ....... . . .. . . ... ........ 22
                                                                                              A I 04 Ignition Source Control. .... ..... ...... . . .. . . 22
CHAPTER 3                 WILDLAND-URBAN
                          INTERFACE AREAS ... . ....... .. . 9                                AIDS Control of Storage .. ...... ............ . ..... 23
Section                                                                                       A I 06 Dumping ............ . . ..... ...... .. ...... 23
30 I       Wild land-Urban interface Area Designations ...... 9                               Al07 Protection of Pumps and Water
                                                                                                   Storage Facilities ...................... .. ... 23

CHAPTER 4                 WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE                                            A I 08 Land Use Limitations . . .. . ... . ... .. ... ... ... 24
                          AREA REQUIREMENTS . ........ 11
                                                                                              APPENDIX B               VEGETATION
Section
                                                                                                                       MANAGEMENT PLAN .... . . ..... 25
40 I       General . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I I
402        Applicabil ity . . . .. .... . . ... . ........ . . .. .. . 11                     APPENDIX C FIRE HAZARD
                                                                                                         SEVERITY FORM . .... . .. ... .... 27
403        Access . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I I
404        Water Supply ......... .... ....... . ......... 12                                 IND EX .. ............. . .. ......... .. ....... .... 29
405        Fire Protection Plan ...... . .... .. .. . .. . ... . .. 13

CHAPTER 5                 SPECIAL BUILDING CON-
                          STRUCTION REGULATIONS .. . . 15
Section
501        General ........ .... .......... . .. . . . . .. ... 15
502        Fire 1-l azm·d Severi ty . .. ... . . .... .. .. ..... .. . 15
503        I gnition-resistant Construction ....... . .... . ... 15
504        Class I i gnition-resistant Construction . . .... .. . . l 5
505        Class 2 Ignition-resistant Construction ..... . ... . 16
506        Class 3 Ignition-resistant Construction ..... . .... l 7
507        Replacemem or Repair of Roof Coverings ...... . 18




2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE                                                                                                                                            vii
viii   2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
                                                             CHAPTER 1

                                                    ADMINISTRATION

                        SECTION 101                                     unsafe or overloaded; will not prov ide adequate access in com-
                          GENERAL                                       pliance with the provisions of this code or will obstruct ex istino
101.1 Scope. The provisions of this code shall apply to the             exits or access; will create a fire hazard; will reduce required
construction, alteration, movement, repair. maintenance and             fire resistance or wi II otherwise create conditions dangerous to
use of any building, structure or premises within the urban-            human life.
wildland interface areas in this jurisdiction.                          101.5 Maintenance. AJI buildings, structures, landscape ma-
   Buildings or conditions in existence at the time of the adop-        terials, vegetation, defensible space or other devices or safe-
tion of this code are a llowed to have their use or occupancy con-      gua rd s required by thi s code sha ll be maiL1tained in
tinued, if such condition, use oroccupancy was legal at the time        conformance to the code edition under which installed. The
of the adoption of this code, provided such continued use does          owner or the owner's designated agent shall be responsible for
not constitute a distinct clanger to li fe or property.                 the mainte nance of buildings, structures, landscape materials
                                                                        and vegetation.
    Buildings or structures moved into or within the jurisdiction
s hall comply with the provisions of this code for new buildings
or structures.
                                                                                                  SECTION 102
101.2 Objective. The objective of this code is to establish                       AUTHORITY OF THE CODE OFFICIAL
minimum regulations consis tent with nationally recognized
                                                                        102.1 Powers and duties of the code official. The code offi-
good practice for the safeguarding of life and property. Regula-
                                                                        cial is hereby au th mi zed to administer and enforce thi s code or
tions in this code are intended to mitigate the risk to life and
                                                                        designated sections thereof, and aJI ordinances of the jurisclic-
struclllres from intrusion of fu-e from wildland fire exposures
                                                                        tion pertaining to designated wildland-urban interface areas.
and fire exposures from adjacent structures and to mitioate  0
                                                                        For such purposes, the code official shall have the powers of a
s tructure fires from spreading to wiJdland fuels.
                                                                        law enforcement officer.
   T he development and use of property in wildland-urban in-
terface areas is a potential threat to life and property from fae       102.2 Interpretations, rules and regulations. The code of-
and resu lting erosion. Safeguards to prevent the occurrence of         ficial shall have the power to render interpretations of this code
fires and to provide adequate fire-protection facilities to control     and to adopt and enforce rules and supplemental regulations to
the spread of fire in wildland-urban interface areas shall be in        clarify the application of its provisions. Such interpretations,
accordance with thi s code.                                             rules and regulations shall be in conformance to the intent and
                                                                        purpose of this code.
   This code shall supplement the jurisdiction's building and
fire codes, Lf such codes have been adopted, to provide for spe-           A copy of such rules and regulations shall be filed with the
cial regulations to mitigate the fire- and life-safety hazards of       clerk of the jurisdiction and shall be in effect immediately
the wilclland-urban interface areas.                                    thereafter. Additional copies shall be avai lable for distribution
                                                                        to the public.
101.3 Retroactivity. The provisions of the code shall apply
to conditions aris ing after the adoption thereof, conditions not       102.3 Liability of the code official. Th e code official
legally in existence at the adoption of this code, to conditions        charged with the enforcement of this code, acting in good faith
which, in the opinion of the code official, constitute a distinct       and without malice in the discharge of the duties required by
hazard to life or property.                                             this code or other pertinent law or ordinance, shall not thereby
                                                                        be rendered personall y liable for damages that may accrue to
101.4 Additions or alterations. Additions or alterations                persons or property as a result of an act or by reason of an act or
may be made to any building or structure without requiring the          omission in the d ischarge of such duties. A suit brought against
existing building o r structure to comply with all of the require-      the code official or employee because of such act or omiss ion
ments of this code, provided the add ition or alteration con-           performed by the code official or employee in the enforcement
forms to that required for a new building or structure.                 of any provision of such codes or o ther pertinent laws or ordi-
   Exception: Provisions of this code that specifically apply to        nances implemented through the enforcement of this code or
   existing conditions are retroactive. See Section 60 I.I and          enforced by the code enforcement agency shall be defended by
   Appendix A.                                                          this jurisdiction until final te rmination of such proceedings,
   Add itions or alterations shall not be made to an existino           and any judgment resulting therefrom shall be assumed by this
building or structure that will cause the existino      buildino   o:   jt~·i~diction. The code enforcement agency or its parent juris-
                                                     ""         e,
structu re to be in violation of any of the provisions of this code     d1ct1on shall not be held as assuming any liability by reason of
nor shall such additions or alterations cause the existing build-        the inspections authorized by this code or any permits or certif-
ing or structure to become unsafe. An unsafe condition shall be          icates issued under th is code.
deemed to have been created if an addition or alteration wi ll          102.4 Other agencies. When requested to do so by the code
cause the existing building or structure to become structurally         official, o ther officials of th is jurisdiction shall assist and coop-

2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
ADMINISTRATION




erate with the code official in the discharge of the duties re-                                SECTION 104
quired by 1his code.                                                                              APPEALS
                                                                       104.l General. To determine the suitability of alternative
                                                                       materials and methods and to provide for reasonable interpreta-
                                                                       tions of the provisions of this code, there shall be and hereby is
                   SECTION 103                                         created a board of appeals consisti ng of five members who are
             COMPLIANCE ALTERNATIVES                                   qualified by experience and training to pass judgment on perti-
                                                                       nent matters. The code official, building official and fire c hief
103.1 Practical dit11culties. When there are practical diffi-          shall be ex officio members, and the code official shall act as
culties involved in carrying out the provisions of this code, the      secretary of the board. The board of appeals shall be appointed
code official is authorized to grant modifications for individual      by the legislative body and shall hold office at their discretion.
cases on application in writing by the owner or a duly autho-          The board shall adopt reasonable ru les and regulations for con-
rized representative. The code official shall first find that a spe-   ducting its investigations and s hall render decisions and find-
cial individual reason makes enforcement o f the strict letter of      ings in writing to the code official, with a duplicate copy to the
this code impractical, the modification is in conformance to the       applicant.
intent and purpose of Lhis code, and the modification does not
                                                                       104.2 Limitations of authority. The board o f appeals shall
lessen any fire protection requirements or any degree of struc-
                                                                       not have authority relative to interpretation of the admin istra-
tural integrity. The details of any action grantiDg modifications
                                                                       tive provisions of this code and shall not have authority to
shal I be recorded and entered into the fi !es of the code en force-
                                                                       waive requirements of this code.
ment agency.

   If the code official determines that difficult terrain, danger of
erosion or other unusual circumstances make sttict compliance                                  SECTION 105
with the vegetation control provisions of the code detrimental                                   PERMITS
to safety or impractical, enforcement thereof may be sus-              105.J General. When not otherwise provided in the require-
pended, provided that reasonable alternative measures are              ments of the building or fire code, permits are required in ac-
taken.                                                                 cordance with Section LOS.
                                                                       105.2 Permits required. Unless otherwise exempted, no
103.2 Technical assistance. To determine the acceptability
                                                                       building or structure regulated by thi s code shall be erected,
of technologies, processes, products, facilities, materials and        constructed, altered, repaired , moved. removed, converted or
uses attending the design, operation or use of a building or pre-
                                                                       demolished unless a separate permit for each building or struc-
mises subject to the inspection of the code official, the code of-     ture has first been obtained from the code offic ial.
ficial is authorized to require the owner or the person in
possession or control of the building or premises to provide,             When required by the code official, a permit shall be ob-
without charge to the jurisdiction, a techn ical opinion and re-       tained for the following activities, operations, practices or
port. The opinion and report shall be prepared by a qualified          functions within an wildland-urban interface area:
engineer, specialist, laboratory or fire safety specialty organi-          I. Automobile wrecking yard;
zation acceptable to the code official and the owner and shall
                                                                           2. Candles and open flames in assembly areas;
analyze the fire safety of the design, operation or use of the
building or premises, the facilities and appllltenances s ituated          3. Explos ives or blasting agents:
thereon and fuel management for purposes of establishing fire              4. Fireworks;
hazard severity to recommend necessary changes.                            5. Flammable or combustible liquids;
                                                                           6. Hazardous materials;
103.3 Alternative materials or methods. The code official,
in concurrence with approval from the building official and fire           7. Liquefied petroleum gases;
chief, is authorized to approve alternative material s or meth-            8. Lumberyards;
ods, provided that the code official finds that the proposed de-           9. Motor vehicle fuel-dispensing stations;
sign, use or operation satisfactorily comp lies with the intent of        10. Open burning;
this code and that the alternative is, for the purpose in tended, at      11. Pyrotechnical special effects material;
least equivalent to the level of quality, strength, effectiveness,
fire resistance, durabili ty and safety prescribed by this code.          12. Tents, canopies and temporary membrane structures;
Approvals under the authority herein contained shall be subject           13. Tire storage;
to the approval of the bu ilding offic ial whenever the alternate         14. Weldi ng and cutting operations; or
material or method involves matters regulated by the lmema-               I5 . Other activities as determined by the code official.
tiona/ Building Code.
                                                                       105.3 Work exempt from permit. Unless otherwise pro-
   The code official shall require that sufficient evidence or         vided in the requirements of the bui lding or fire code, a permit
proof be submitted to substantiate any claims that may be made         shall not be required for the following:
regarding its use. The details of any action granti ng approval of        I. One-story detached accessory buildings used as tool and
an alternate shall be recorded and entered in the flies of the               storage sheds, playhouses and similar uses, provided the
code enforcement agency.                                                     floor area does not exceed 120 square feet ( 11. I 5 m') and

2                                                                                    2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
                                                                                                                      ADMINISTRATION




     the structure is located more than 50 feet ( 15 240 mm)          not be construed to be a permit fo r, or an approval of. any
     from the nearest adjacent structure.                             vio lation of any of the provisions of this code or of any other or-
  2. Fences not over 6 feet ( 1829 mm) high.                          d inance of the jurisdiction. Perm its presuming to give authority
                                                                      to violate or conceal the provisions of this code or other ordi-
   Exemption from the permit requirements of this code shall
                                                                      nances o f the j uri sd iction shall not be valid.
not be deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in
any manner in violation of the provisions of thi s code or any        105.8 Expiration. Every permit issued by the code official
other laws or ordinances of this jurisdiction.                        under the provisions o f this code shall expire by limitation and
                                                                      become null and void if the buildin g. use or work authorized by
  The code official is authorized to stipu late conditions for
                                                                      such permit is not commenced within 180 days from the elate of
permits. Permits shall not be issued when public safety would
                                                                      such permit, or if the building. use or work authorized by such
be at 1isk, as dete1m ined by the code official.
                                                                      permit is s uspended or abandoned at any tim e after the work is
105.4 Permit application. To obtain a permit, the applicant           commenced for a period of 180 clays.
shall first file an application therefor in writing on a form fur-
                                                                         Any permittee ho lding an unexpired permit may apply for
nished by the code enforcement agency fo r that purpose. E very
                                                                      an extension of the time within which work may com mence un-
such application shall:
                                                                      der that permit when the permittee is unable to commence work
   I. Identify and desc1ibe the work, activity, operation, prac-      within the time required by this section for good and satisfac-
      tice or function to be covered by the permit for wh ich ap-     tory reasons. The code official may extend the time for acti on
      plication is made.                                              by tbe permittee for a period not exceeding 180 days o n written
  2. Describe the land on which the proposed work, activity,          request by the per mittee showing that circumstances beyond
     operatio n, practice or function is to be done by legal de-      the control of the permittee have prevented action fro m being
     scription, street address or similar descripti on that will      taken. No permit shall be extended more than once.
     readily identify and definitely locate the proposed build-       105.9 Retention of permits. Permits sball at all times be kept
     ing, work, activity, operation, practice or function.            on the premises designated therein and shall at all times be sub-
  3. Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed             ject to inspection by the code official or other authorized repre-
     work, activity, operation, practice or function is in-           sentative.
     tended.                                                          105.10 Revocation of permits. Permits issued under this
  4. Be accompanied by plans, diagrams, computation and               code may be suspended or revoked when it is detem1ined by the
     specifications and other data as required in Section 106         code official that:
     of this code.
                                                                         I . It is used by a person other than the person to whom the
  5. State the valuation of any new building or structure or                 permit was issued.
     any addition, remodeling or alteration to an existing
                                                                        2. It is used for a location other tha n that for which the per-
     building.
                                                                           mit was issued.
  6. Be signed by the applicant or the applicant's authorized
                                                                        3. Any of the conditions or limitations set forth in the per-
     agent.
                                                                           mit have been violated.
  7. Give such other data and information as may be required
                                                                        4. The permittee fails, refuses or neglects to comply with
     by the code official.
                                                                           any o rder or notice duly served on him under the provi-
105.5 Perm it approval. Before a permit is issued, the code                sions of this code within the time prov ided the rein.
official, or an authorized representative, s hall review and ap-
                                                                        5. There has been any false statement or misrepresentation
prove a.II permitted uses, occupancies or structures. Where
                                                                           as to material fact in Lhe application or plans on which
laws or regulations are enforceable by other agencies or depart-           the permit or application was made.
ments, a joint approval shall be obtained from all agencies or
departments concerned.                                                  6. When the permit is issued in error or in violation of any
                                                                           other o rdinance, regulations or provisions of this code.
105.6 Permit issuance. The application, plans, spec ifica-
                                                                         The code official is allowed to, in writing, suspend or revoke
tions and other data filed by an applicant for a permit shall be
                                                                      a per mit issued under the provisions of this code whenever the
reviewed by the code official. If the code official finds that the
                                                                      permit is issued in error or on the basis of incorrect informati on
work described in an application for a permit and the plan,
                                                                      supplied, or in violation of any ordi nance or regulation or any
spec ifications and other data fil ed therewi th conform to the re-
                                                                      of the provisions of this code.
quirements of this code, the code official is allowed to issue a
permit to the applic,mt.
   When the code official issues the permit, the code official                            SECTION 106
shall endorse in writing or stamp the plans and spec ificat ions                    PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS
APPROVED. Such approved plans and specifications shall not
                                                                      106.1 General. Plans, engineerin g calculations, diagrams
be changed, modified or altered withoui auihorization from the
                                                                      and other data shall be submitted in at least two sets with each
code official, and all work regulated by th is code shall be clone
                                                                      application for a permit. When such plans are not prepared by
in accordance with the approved plans.
                                                                      an architect or engineer, the code official may require the appli -
105.7 Validity of permit. The issuance or granting of a per-          cant submitting such plans or other data lo demonstrate that
mit or approval of plans, specifications and co mputations shal l     state law does not require that the plans be prepared by a Ii-

2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE                                                                                                  3
ADMINISTRATION




censed architect or engineer. The code official may require               remain accessible and exposed for inspection purposes until
plans, computatio ns and specifications to be prepared and de-            approved by the code o fficial.
signed by an architect or engineer licensed by the state to prac-
                                                                             It shall be the duty of the permit applicant to cause the
tice as such even if not required by s tate law.
                                                                          work to remain accessible and exposed for inspect io n pur-
    Exception: Submission of pl an s, calculations, construction          poses. Neither the code o ffi cial nor the jurisdiction shall be
    inspection requirements and other data, if it is found that the       liable for expe nse entailed in the removal o r replacement of
    nature of the work applied for is such that rev iew ing o f plans     any material required to allow inspection.
    is not necessary to obtain compliance with this code.                    Approval as a result of an inspection shall not be con-
106.2 Information on plans and specifications. Plans and                  strued to be an approval of a vio lation of the provisions of
specifications shall be drawn to scale upon substantial paper or          this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdicti on. inspec-
cloth and shall be of sufficient clarity to indicate the location ,       tions presuming to g ive authority to violate or cancel the
nature and extent of the work proposed , and show in detail that          provisions of this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdic-
it wi ll conform to the provisions of this code and all relevant          tion shall not be valid.
laws, ordinances, rules and regul ations.                                   A s urvey of the lot may be required by the code official to
106.3 Site plan. In addition to the require ments for plans in            verify that the mitigation features are provided and the
the International Building Code, site plans shall inc lude topog-         building or structure is located in accordance with the ap-
raphy, width and percent of grade of access roads, landscape              proved plans.
and vegetation details. locations of structures or building enve-         107.1.2 Authority to inspect. The code official shall in-
lopes, existing or proposed overhead utilities, occupancy clas-           s pect, as o ften as necessary, bui ldings and premises, includ-
sification of buildings, types of ignitio n-resistant construction        ing such other hazards or appliances designated by the code
of buildings, structures and the ir appendages, roof classifica-          o fficial for the pw-pose of ascertaining and causing to be
tion of bui ldings, and s ite water supply systems.                       corrected any conditio ns that could reasonably be expected
106.4 Vegetation management plans. When utilized by the                   to cause fire or contribute to its spread, or any violation of
permit applicant pursuant to Sect ion 502, vegetati on manage-            the purpose of thi s code and of any other law or standard af-
ment plans shall be prepared and shall be submitted to the code           fecting fire s afety.
official for review and approval as part of the plans required for        107.1.3 Reinspections. To determine compliance with
a permit. See Appendix B.                                                 this code, the code official may cause a structure to be rein-
106.5 Fire protection plan. When required by the code offi-               spected. A fee may be assessed for each inspection or re in-
cial pursuant to Section 405, a fire protection plan shall be pre-        spection when s uch portion of work for which ins pect ion is
pared and shall be submitted to the code official for review and          called is not complete o r when corrections ca.lied for are not
approved as a part of the p lans req uired for a permit.                  made.
                                                                             Re inspection fees may be assessed when the approved
106.6 Other data and substantiation. When required by the
                                                                          plans are not readily available to the inspector, for failu re to
code official, the plans and specifications shall include classifi-
                                                                          provide access on the date for which inspection is requested
cation of fu el loadi ng, fuel model light, medium or heavy, and
                                                                          or for deviating from plans requiring the approval of the
substantiating data to verify classification of tire-resistive veg-
                                                                          code official.
etation.
                                                                             To obtain a reinspection, the applicant shall pay the rei n-
106.7 Vicinity plan. In addition to the requirements for si te
                                                                          spection fee as set forth in the fee schedul e adopted by the
plans, plans shall incl ude details regarding the vic inity within
                                                                          jurisdiction. Whe n reinspection fees have been assessed, no
300 feet (9 1 440 mm) of property lines, including other struc-
                                                                          additional inspection of the work will be performed until the
tures, slope, vegetation , fuel breaks, water supply systems and
                                                                          required fees have been paid .
access roads.
                                                                        107 .2 Enforcement.
106.8 Retention of plans. One set ofapproved plans, spec ifi-
cations and computations shall be retained by the code offic ial          107.2.1 Authorization to issue corrective orders and no-
for a period of not less than 90 ck1ys from elate of completion of        tices. When the code official finds any build ing or premises
the work covered therein; and one set of approved plans and               that are in vio lat ion of this code, the code official is autho-
spec ifi cations shall be returned to the applicant, and said set         rized to issue corrective orders and notices.
shall be kept on the site of the building, use or work at all times       107.2.2 Service of orders and notices. Orders and no-
during which the work authorized thereby is in progress.                  tices autho1ized or required by this code s hall be given or
                                                                          served on the owner, operato r, occupant or other person re-
                                                                          sponsible for the condition or violation either by verbal noti-
                    SECTION 107                                           fication, personal service, or delivering the same to, and
           INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT                                     leaving it with, a person of suitable age and discretion on the
                                                                          premises; or, if no such person is fo und on the pre mises, by
107.l l nspection.
                                                                          affixing a copy thereof in a conspicuous place on the door to
    107.1.l General. All construction or work for which a                 the entrance of said premises and by maili ng a copy thereof
    permit is required by thi s code shall be subject to inspection       to such person by registered or certified mail to the person 's
    by the code official and all such construction o r work shall         last known address.

4                                                                                    2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
                                                                                                                         ADMINISTRATION




      Orders or notices that are given verbally shall be con-                                    SECTION 108
   firmed by service in writing as herein provided.                                   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION
107.3 Right of entry. Whenever necessary to make an in-                 No building, strncture or premises shall be used or occupied,
spection to enforce any of the provisions of this code. or when-        and no change in the existing occupancy class ification of a
ever the code offic ial has reasonable cause to believe that there      bui lding. structure, premise or portion thereof shall be made
exists in any building or on any premises any condi tion that           unti l the code official has issued a certificate of completion
makes such building or premises unsafe, the code official is au-        therefor as provided herein. The certificate of occupancy shall
thorized to enter such building or premises at all reasonable           not be issued untiJ the certificate of completion indicating that
times to inspect the same or to perform any duty authorized by          the project is in comp] iance with this code has been issued by
this code, provided that if s uch building or premises is occu-         the code official.
pied, the code official shall first present proper credentials and          Issuance of a certificate o f occupancy shall not be construed
request entry; and if such building or premises is unoccupied,          as an approval of a violation of the prov isions of this code or of
the code official shall firs t make a reasonable effort to locate the   other pertinent laws and ordinances of the jurisdiction. Certifi-
owner or other persons having charge or control of the building         cates presuming to give author ity to vio late o r ca ncel the provi-
or premises and request entry.                                          s ions of thi s code or other laws or ordinances o f the jurisdiction
                                                                        shall not be val id.
   1f such entry is refused, the code official shall have recourse
to every remedy prov ided by law to secure entry. Owners, oc-
cupants or any other persons having charge, care or control of
any building or premi ses, shall , after proper request is made as
hereiJ1 provided, promptl y permit entry therein by the code of-
ficial for the purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to
this code.
107.4 Compliance with orders and notices.
   107.4.1 General com pliance. Orders and notices issued
   or served as provided by this code shall be complied with by
   the owner, operator, occupant or other person responsible
   for the condition or violation to which the corrective order
   o r notice pertains.
      lf the building or premises is not occupied, such correc-
   tive orders or notices shall be compl ied with by the owner.
   107.4.2 Compliance with tags. A building or premises
   shall not be used when in violation of this code as noted on a
   tag affixed in accordance with Section I 07.4.1 .
   107.4.3 Removal and destruction of signs and tags. A
   sign or tag posted or affixed by the code official shall not be
   mutilated, destroyed or removed without authorization by
   the code official.

   107.4.4 Citations. Persons operating or maintaining an
   occupancy, premises or vehicle subject to this code who al-
   low a hazard to exist or fail to take immediate action to abate
   a hazard on such occupancy, p remises or vehicle when or-
   dered or notified to do so by the code official shall be guilty
   of a misdemeano r.

   107.4.5 Unsafe conditions. Buildings , structures or pre-
   mises that cons titute a fire hazard or are otherwise danger-
   ous to human life, or which in re lation to existing use
   constitute a hazard to safety or health o r public welfare, by
   reason of inadequate maintenance, dil apidation, obsoles-
   cence, fire hazard, disaster damage or abandonment as spec-
   ified in thi s code or any other ordinance, are un safe
   conditions. Unsafe buildings or structures s hall not be used .
   Unsafe buildings are hereby declared to be public nui sances
   and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or
   removal, pursuant to applicable state and local laws and
   codes.

2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE                                                                                                    5
6   2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
                                                            CHAPTER 2

                                                       DEFINITIONS

                        SECTION 201                                   DEFENSIBLE SPACE. An area either natural or man-made,
                         GENERAL                                      where material capable of allowing a tiJe to spread unchecked
201.1 Scope. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the follow-           has been treated, cleared or modified to slow the rate and inten-
ing words and te rms shall, for the purposes of this code, have       s ity of an advanci ng wildfi re and to create an area for fire sup-
the meanings shown in this chapter.                                   pression operations to occur.

201.2 Interchangeability. Words stated in the present tense           DRIVEWAY. A vehicular ingress and egress route that serves
include the future; words s tated in the masculine gender in-         no more than two bui ldings or structures, not including acces-
clude the feminine and neuter, and the s ing ular number in-          sory s tructures, or mo re than fi ve dwell ing units.
cludes the plural and the plural the s ingular.                       FIRE AREA. The floor area, in square feet (square meters),
201.3 Terms defi ned in other codes. Where terms are not              used to determine the adequate water sup ply.
defined in this code and are defined in other International           FIRE CHIEF. The chief o fficer or the chief o fficer 's autho-
Codes, such terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them as         rized representative of the fire department serving the jurisdic-
in those codes.                                                       tion.
201.4 Terms not defined. Where terms are not defined                  FIRE PROTECTION PLAN. A document prepared for a
through the methods authorized by this section, s uch terms           specific project or development proposed for the wildlw1d-ur-
shall have their ordinarily accepted meanings such as the con-        ban interface area. l.t describes ways to minimize and mitigate
text impl ies.                                                        the fire problems created by the project or development, with
                                                                      the purpose o f reducing impact on the community's fi re protec-
                                                                      tion delive1y system.
                        SECTION 202
                                                                      FIRE WEATHER. Weather conditions fa vorable to the igni-
                        DEFINITIONS
                                                                      tion and rapid spread of fire. In wildfires, this generally in-
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A building or structure used to                  cludes high temperatures combined with strong winds and low
shelter or support any material. equipment, chatte l or occu-         humidi ty.
pancy other tban a habitable building.
                                                                      FIRE-RESISTANCE-RATED CONSTRUCTION. The use
APPROVED. Approval by the code official as the result of re-          of materials and systems in the design and construction of a
view, investigation or tests conducted by the code official or by     building or structure to safeguard against the spread of fire
reason of accepted principles or tests by national authorities, or    within a building or structure and the s pread of foe to or from
technical or scientific organizations.                                buildings or structures to the wild land- urban interface area.
BRUSH, SHORT. Low-growing species that reach heights of l             FLAME SPREAD RATING . As used herein refers to rating
to 3 feet. Sagebrush, snowben-y and rabbitb111sh are some variet-     obtained according to tests conducted as specified by a nation-
ies.                                                                  ally recognized standard.
BRUSH, TALL. Arbor-like varieties of brush s pecies ancl/or           FUEL BREAK. An area, strategically located for fighting an-
short varieties of broad-leaf trees that grow in compact groups or    ticipated fires, where the native vegetation has been perma-
clumps. These groups or clumps reach heights of 4 to 20 feet. In      nently modified or replaced so that fires burning into it can be
Utah, this includes primary vmieties of oak, maples, chokecherry.     more easily controlled. Fue l breaks divide fi re-prone areas into
serviceberry and mahogany, but may also include other species.        smaller areas fo r easier fire control and to provide access for
                                                                      fire fi ghting.
BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for supporting or
sheltering any use or occupancy.                                      FUEL, HEAVY. Vegetation consisting of round wood 3 inches
BUILDING OFFICIAL. The officer or other designated au-                (76 111111) or larger in diameter. The amount of fuel (vegetation)
thority charged with the administration and enforcement of the        would be 6 tons per acre or greater.
l11ternational Building Code, or the bui Iding offic ial's duly au-   FUEL, LIGHT. Vegetation consisting of herbaceous and round
thorized representati ve.                                             wood less than 1/ 4 inch (6.4 mm) in diameter. The amount of fuel
CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION. Written documenta-                         (vegetation) would be 1/1 ton to 2 tons per acre.
tion that the project or work for which a permit was issued has       FUEL, MEDIUM. Vegetation consisting of round wood 1/ 4 to 3
been completed in conformance with require ments of this              inches (6.4nun to 76 mm) in diameter. The amount of fuel (vegeta-
code.                                                                 tion) would be 2 to 6 tons per acre.
CODE OFFICIAL. The official des ignated by the j urisdiction          FUEL MODIFICATION. A method of mod ifying fuel load
to interpret and enforce this code, or the code official's autho-     by reducing the amount of non fire-resistive vegetation o r alter-
rized representative.                                                 ing the type of vegetatio n to reduce the fuel load.

2006 UTA H WILDLAN D-URBAN INTERFACE CODE                                                                                                7
DEFINITIONS




FUEL MOSAIC. A fu el modificatio n system that provides for               4. Slate shing les.
the creation of islands and irregular boundaries to reduce the            5. Clay or concrete roofing tile.
visual and eco logical impact of fu el modificatio n.
                                                                          6. Approved roof covering of noncombustible material.
FUEL-LOADING. The oven-dry weight of fuels in a g iven                  SLOPE. The var iation o f terrain from the horizontal; the num-
area, usually expressed in pounds per acre (lb/a) (kg/ha). Fuel         ber of feet (meters) rise or fall per 100 feet (30 480 mm ) mea-
loading may be referenced to fuel size or time lag categories,          sured horizontally, expressed as a percentage.
and may include surface fue ls or to tal fu els.
                                                                        STRUCTURE. That which is built o r constructed, an ed ifi ce
GREENBELT. A fu el break designated for a use other than                or building of any kind, or any piece of work artific ially built up
fire protection.                                                        or composed of parts joined together in some manner.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. As d efin ed in the flltem a-                      TREE CROWN. The primary and secondary branches grow-
tional Fire Code.                                                       ing out from the main ste rn, together with twigs and fo liage.
HEAVY TIMBER CONSTRUCTION. As descri bed in the                         UNENCLOSED ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. An acces-
lnternational Building Code.                                            sory structure without a complete exterior wall system enclos-
INSURANCE SERVICES OFFICE (ISO). An agency that                         ing the area under roof or floor abo ve.
recommends fLre insurance rates based on a grading schedule             WILDFIRE. An uncontrolled fi re spreading through vegeta-
that incorporates evaluati on o f fLre fi ghting resources and          tive fue ls, exposing and possibly consuming structures.
capabilities.
                                                                        WILDLAND. An area in which development is essentially
LEGISLATfVE BODY. 1l1e governing body of the political j u-             nonexistent, except fo r roads, railroads, power lines and similar
Iisd iction administering this code.                                    faci Ii ties.
LOG '''ALL CONSTRUCTION. A type of constrncti on in                     WILDLAND URBAN INTERFACE. The line, area or zone
which exterior walls are consu1.1cted of solid wood members             where structures or other human development (including critical
and where the smallest horizontal dimension of each solid               infrastructure that if destroyed would result in hardship to com-
wood member is at least 6 inches (152 mm).                              munities) meet or intermingle wi th undeveloped wildland or veg-
MULTILAYERED GLAZED PANELS. Window o r door                             etative fuel.
assemblies that consist of two or more independently gl azed
panels instaUed parallel to each other, having a sealed air gap in
between, within a frame designed to till completely the win-
dow or door opening in which the assembly is intended to be
installed.
NONCOMBUSTIBLE. As applied to building construction
materi al means a mate rial that, in the form in which it is used, is
either one of the following:
    1. Materia l or which no part wi 11 ignite and bmn when sub-
       jected to fire. Any material conforming to ASTM E 136
       shall be considered noncombusti ble within the meaning
       of this section.
    2. Material having a structural base of noncombustible ma-
       terial as defined in Item 1 above , with a surfac.ing mate-
       rial not o ver 'f. inch (3.2 mm) thick, which has a flame-
       spread rating of 50 or less. Flame-spread rating as used
       herein refers to rating obtained according to tests con-
       ducted as specified in ASTM E 84.
   "Noncombustible" does not apply to surface finish materi-
als. Materi al required to be noncombustible for reduced clear-
ances to flues, heating appliances or other sources of hi gh
temperature shall refer to mate rial confom1ing to Item I. No
material s hall be classed as noncombustible that is s ubject to
increase in combustibility or fl ame-spread rating, beyond the
limits herein established, through the effects of age, mo isture
or other atmospheric condition.
NONCOMBUSTIBLE ROOF COVERING. One o f the fol-
lowing:
    1. Cement shi ngles or sheets.
    2. Exposed concrete slab roof.
    3 . Ferrous or copper shingles or sheets.

8                                                                                      2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
                                                            CHAPTER 3

                            WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE AREAS

                        SECTION 301
            WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE
                 AREA DESIGNATIONS
301.1 Declaration. The legislative body shall declare the
wildland-urban interface areas within the j urisdiction. The
urban-wild land interface areas shall be based on the maps cre-
ated in accordance with Section 30 I.
301.2 Mapping. In cooperation, the code o fficial and the Divi-
s ion of Forestry, Fire and State Lands (FFSL) wi ldfire repre-
sentative (per participating agreement between county and
FFSL) will c reate or review Wild land-Urban Interface Area
maps, to be recorded and filed with the c lerk of the jurisdiction.
These areas shall become effeclive immediately thereafter.
301.3 Review of wildland-urban interface areas. The code
official and the FFSL wild fLre representative shall reevaluate
and recommend mod ificatio n to the wildland-urban in te rface
areas in accordance w ith Section 301.1 o n a three-year basis or
more frequently as deemed necessary by the legislative body.




2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE                                 9
10   2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
                                                             CHAPTER 4

              WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE AREA REQUIREMENTS

                         SECTION 401                                                            SECTION 403
                          GENERAL                                                                 ACCESS
401.1 Scope. Wi ldland-urban interface areas shall be pro-             403.1 Restricted access. Where emerge ncy vehicle access is
vided with emergency vehicle access and water supply in ac-            restricted because of secured access roads or d1iveways or
cordance with this chapter.                                            where immediate access is necessary for life-saving or fire-
                                                                       fighting purposes, the code official is authori zed to require a
401.2 Objective. The objective of this chapter is to establish         key box to be instal led in an accessible location. The key box
the minimum require ments for emergency vehicle access and             shall be of a type approved by the code official and shall con-
water suppl y for bu ildings and s tructu res located in the           tain keys to gain necessary access as required by the code offi-
wildland-urban inte rface areas.                                       c ial.
401.3 General safety precautions. General safety precau-               403.2 Driveways. Dri veways shall be provided when any
tions s hall be in accordance with this chapter. See also Appen-       portion of an exterio r wall of the first story of a building is lo-
di x A.                                                                cated more than 150 feet (45 720 111111) from a fire apparatus ac-
                                                                       cess road. Driveways shall provide a minimum unobstructed
                                                                       width of 12 feet (3658 mm) and a minimum unobstructed
                                                                       height of 13 feet 6 inches (4 115 mm). D1iveways in excess of
                        SECTION 402
                                                                       150 feet (45 720 mm) in length shall be provided with turn-
                       APPLICABILITY
                                                                       arounds. Driveways in excess of 200 feet (60 960 111111) in
402.1 Subdivisions.                                                    length and less than 20 feet (6096 nun) in width shall be pro-
                                                                       vided with turnouts in addition to turnarounds.
  402.1.1 Access. New subdivisions, as detennined by this
  jurisdictioll, shall be provided with fire apparatus access             A driveway shall not serve in excess of fi ve dwelling units.
  roads in accordance with the /11temmio11al Fire Code and                Driveway turnarounds s hall have inside turning radii of not
  access requirements in accordance with Section 403.                  less than 30 feet (9 144 mm) and outside turning radii of not less
   402.1.2 Water supply. New subdivisions as dete rmined               than 45 feet ( 13 716 nun). Driveways that connect with a road
   by this j urisdiction shall be provided with water s upply in       or roads at more than one point may be considered as having a
   accordance with Section 404.                                        turnaround if all changes of direction meet the radii requi re-
                                                                       ments for driveway turnarounds.
402.2 Individual structures.
                                                                          Driveway turnouts shall be an al l-weather road smface at
   402.2.1 Access. Individual         structures hereafter con-        least IO feet (3048 mm) wide and 30 feet (9144 mm) long.
   structed or relocated ill to or within wi ld land-urban interface   Driveway turnouts shall be located as required by the code offi-
   areas shal I be provided with fire apparatus access i11 accor-      cial.
   dance with the lnrernational Fire Code and driveways in ac-
                                                                          Vehicle load limits shall be posted at both entrances to
   cordance with Section 403.2. Marking of fire protection
   equipment shall be provided in accordance with Section              bridges on driveways and private roads. Design loads for
                                                                       bridges shall be established by the code offic ial.
   403.5 and address markers shall be provided in accordance
   with Secti on 403.6.                                                403.3 Fire apparatus access road. When required , fire ap-
                                                                       paratus access roads shall be all-weather roads with a mini-
   402.2.2 Water supply. Individual structures hereafter
                                                                       mum wi dth of20 feet (6096 mm) and a clear height of 13 feet 6
   constructed or relocated into or withi n wi ldland-urban in-
                                                                       inches (4115 111111); shall be designed to accommodate the loads
   terface areas shal I be provided with a conformi ng water sup-
                                                                       and turning radii for fire apparatus; and have a gradient nego-
   ply in accordance with Section 404.
                                                                       tiable by the specific fire apparatus normally used at that loca-
      Exceptions:                                                      tion within the jurisdiction. Dead-end roads in excess of 150
                                                                       feet (45 720 mm) in le ngth shall be provided with turnarounds
         I.    Structures constructed to meet the requirements         as approved by the code official. An all -weather road surface
               for the class of ignition-resi stant constructio n      s hall be any surface material acceptable to the code offic ial that
               specified in Table 503.1 for a nonconforming wa-        would normally allow the passage of emergency service vehi-
               ter supply.                                             cles to protect structures and wildlands within the jurisdiction.
         2.    Buildin gs containing only private garages, car-        403.4 Marking of roads. Approved signs or other approved
               ports, sheds ,md agricultural buildings with a          notices shall be provided and maintained for access roads and
               floor area of not more than 600 square feet (56         driveways to identify such roads and prohibit the obstructio n
               111\                                                    thereof or both.

2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE                                                                                                 11
WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE AREA REQUIREMENTS




    All road identifica ti on sig ns and s upports shall be of                   ter level or flow shall no t be rendered unusable because
noncombustible materi als. Signs shall have minimum 4 -inch-                     of freezi ng. T his water source shall have an approved
high ( I 02 mm) re flective letters with 1/ 2 inch ( 12.7 mm) stroke             draft s ite with an approved hydrant. Adequate water flow
on a contrasting 6-incb-high ( 152 mm) sign. R oad identi fica-                  and rights for access to the water source shall be ensured
tio n sign age s hal I be mounted at a height of 7 feet (2 134 mm)               in a fo rm acceptable to the code o ffic ial.
fro m the road surface to the bottom o f the sig n.
                                                                           404.3 Draft sites. Approved draft sites sha ll be prov ided at
403.5 Marking of fire protection equipment. Fi re p rotec-                 all natural water sou rces intended for use as fi re protecti on for
tion equipment and fire hydrants shall be clearly identified in a          compliance with this code. The design, construction, location,
manner approved by the code official to prevent obsLruction.               access and access maintenance of d raft sites shall be approved
403.6 Address markers. All buildings shal l have a perma-                  by the code o fficial.
ne ntly posted address, wh ich shall be placed at each driveway
entrance and be visible from both directions of travel alo ng the             The pumper access point shall be either an emergency vehi-
road. Jn alI cases, the address shall be posted at the begin ning of       cle access area alongside a conforming access road or an ap-
construction and shall be maintained thereafter, and tbe ad-               proved driveway no lo nger than 150 feet ( 45 720 mm). P umper
dress shall be v isibl e and legible from the road on which the ad-        access poin ts and access driveways shall be designed and con-
dress is located.                                                          structed in accordance with all codes and ord inances enforced
                                                                           by this jurisd iction. Pumper access poi nts shall not require the
  Address signs along one- way roads shall be visible from                 pumper apparatus to obstruct a road or dri veway.
both the intended direction of travel and the opposite direction.
   Where mu ltiple addresses are required at a single dri veway,
                                                                           404.4 Hydrants. All hydrants shall be designed and con-
they shall be mounted o n a s ing le post, and additional s igns           structed in accordance with nationally recognized standards.
shall be posted at locations where driveways di vide.                      The locatio n and access sha ll be approved by the code official.

   Where a roadway prov ides access sole ly to a single com-               404.5 Adequate water supply. Adequate water supply s hall
mercial or industrial business, the address sign shall be placed           be determined for purposes of initial attack and fl ame front
at the nearest road intersection providing access to that site.            control by the local ju1isdiction. NFPA 1142 may be used as a ref-
                                                                           erence.
403.7 Grade. The gradient for fi re apparatus access roads
and driveways shall not exceed the maximum approved by the                 404.6 Fire department. The water system required by this
code official. It will be up to the code official to ascertain the stan-   code can only be considered conforming for purposes of deter-
dard based on local fire equipment grade not to exceed 12 percent.         mining the level of ignition-resistant constructim1 (see Table
                                                                           503. l ).

                         SECTION 404                                       404.7 Obstructions. Access to all water sources required by
                        WATER SUPPLY                                       this code shall be un obstructed at al l times. The code official
404.1 General. When provided in order to qualify as a con-                 shalJ not be deterred or hindered from gaining immediate ac-
forming water supply for the purpose of Table 503.1 , an ap-               cess to water source equi pment, fire protect ion equipment or
proved water source shall have an adeq uate water supply for               hydrants.
the use of the fir e protection service to protect buildings and           404.8 Identification. Water sources, draft sites, hydrants and
structures from exterior fire sources or to suppress structure             fi re protection equipment shall be clearly identified in a manner
fi res within the wildland-urban inte1face area of the juri sdic-          approved by the code official to identify location and to prevent
tion in accordance with this section.                                      obstruction by parking and other obstructions.
404.2 Water sources. T he point at which a water sou rce is
available for use s hall be located not more than 1,000 feet (30 5         404.9 Testing and maintenance. Water sources, draft sites ,
m) from the building and be approved by the code official. The             hydrants and other fi re protection equipment required by this
distance shall be measured along an unobstructed Ii neo f travel.          code shal l be subject to periodic tests as required by the code
                                                                           o fficial. Code official shall establish a periodic testing schedule.
Water sources shall comply with the fo llowing:                            Costs are to be covered by the water provider. All such equipment
     I. Man-made water sources shall have a m inimum usable                installed under the provisions of this code shall be maintained
        water volu me as determined by the adequate water sup-             in an operative cond it ion at all times and shall be repaired or re-
        ply needs in accordance with Section 404 .5. This water            placed where defective. Additions, repairs, alterati ons and ser-
        source shall be equipped with an approved hydrant. T he            vicing of such fi re protection equ ipment and resources shall be
        water level of the water source shall be maintai ned by            in accordance with approved standards. Mains and appu1te-
        rainfall , wate r pumped from a well, waler hauled by a            nances shall be installed in accordance with NFPA 24. Watertanks
        tanker, or by seasonal high water o f a stream or river. The       for private fae protection shall be installed in accordance with
        design, construction, location, water level maintenance,           NFPA 22. The costs are to be covered by the water provider.
        access, and access maintenance of man-made water
        sources sha ll be approved by the code official.
                                                                           404.10 Reliability.
     2. Natural water sources shall have a minimum annual wa-                 404.10.1 Objective. The objective of th is section is to in-
        ter level or fl ow sufficient to meet the adequate water              crease the reliabil ity of water supplies by reducing the ex po-
        suppl y needs in accordance with Section 404.5. T his wa-             sure of vegetative fuels to electricall y powered systems.

12                                                                                        2006 UTAH WILD LAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
                                                                       WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE AREA REQUIREMENTS




   404.10.2 Clearance of fuel . Defensible space shall be
   provided around water tank structures, water suppl y pumps
   and pump houses in accordance with Section 603.
   404.10.3 S tandby power. Stationary water supply facil i-
   ties with in the wildland-urban interface area dependent on
   electrical power supplied by power grid to meet adequate wa-
   ter supply demands shall provide functio nal standby power
   systems in accordance with the ICC Electrical Code to en-
   sure that an uninterrupted water s upply is maintained. The
   standby power source shall be capable of provid ing power
   for a minimum of two hours.
      Exceptions: When approved by the code official, a
      standby power supply is not required where the primary
      power service to the stationmy water supply facili ty is un-
      derground or there is an on-site generator.


                        SECTION 405
                 FIRE PROTECTION PLAN
405.1 Purpose. The plan is to provide a basis to determine overall
compliance with this code. For determination of lgni tion Resistant
Construction (IRC) (see Table 503.1) and for determi ning the
need for alternative materials and methods.
405.2 General. When required by the code offi cial, a fire pro-
tection plan s hall be prepared and approved prior to the first
building permit issuance or subdivision approval.
405.3 Content. The plan shall be based upon a site-specific
wildfire risk assessment that inc ludes considerations of loca-
tion, topography, aspect, flammable vegetation, climatic con-
ditions and fae history. The plan shall address water supply.
access, build ing ignition and fire-resistm1ce factors, fire protec-
tion systems and equipment, defensible space and vegetation
management.
405.4 Cost. The cost of fire protection plan preparation and
review shall be the responsibi lity of the applicant.
405.5 Plan retention. The fire protection plan shall be re-
tained by the code official.




2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE                                                                        13
14   2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
                                                                         CHAPTER 5

                SPECIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS

                              SECTION 501                                               interface areas shall be established in accordance with Appen-
                               GENERAL                                                  di x C.
501.1 Scope. Build ings and structures shall be cons tructed in                           The fire hazard seve1ity is allowed to be reduced by imple-
accordance with the International Building Code and thi s code.                         menting a vegetation management plan in accordance with Ap-
                                                                                        pendix 8 .
    Exceptions :
       I. Accessory structures not exceeding 120 sq uare feet
          ( l l m') in floor area when located at least 50 feet ( I 5                                        SECTION 503
          240 mm) from buildings containing habitable spaces.                                     IGNITION-RESISTANT CONSTRUCTION
       2. Agricultural buildings at least 50 feet ( 15 240 mm)                          503.1 General. Buildings and structures hereafter constructed ,
          from buildings containing habitable spaces.                                   mod ified or relocated into or within wildland-urban interface
501.2 Objective. The objective of this chapte r is to establish                         areas s hall meet the construction requirements in accordance
minimum standards to locate, design and construct buildi ngs                            with Table 503. l. Class I, C lass 2 or Class 3 ignition-resistant
and structures or portions thereof for the protection of li fe and                      construction shall be in accordance with Sections 504,505 and
property, to resist damage from wildfires, and to mitigate bui ld-                      506, respectively.
ing and structure fires from s preadi ng to wildl and fuels. The
minimum standards set forth in thi s chapter vary with the cri ti-
cal fi re weather. slope and fuel type to provide increased pro-                                          SECTION 504
tection, above the requirements set forth in the lnternatio11al                            CLASS 1 IGNITION-RESISTANT CONSTRUCTION
8 11ildi11g Code, from the various levels of hazards.
                                                                                        504.1 General. Class I ignition-resistant construction shall be
                                                                                        in accordance with Section 504.

                         SECTION 502                                                    504.2 Roof' covering. Roofs shall have a Class A roof covering
                    FIRE HAZARD SEVERITY                                                or a Class A roof assembly. For roof coverings where the pro-
                                                                                        file allows a sp ace between the roof covering and roof decking,
The fire hazard severity of building sites for all buildings here-                      the space at the eave ends shall be fires topped to preclude entry
after constructed, modified or relocated into wildland-urban                            of flames o r embers.

                                                                         TABLE 503.1
                                                             IGNITION-RESISTANT CONSTRUCTION"

                                                                                     FIRE HAZARD SEVERITY
                                            Moderate Hazard                                 Hioh Hazard                                    Extreme Hazard
      DEFENSIBLE                             Water Sunnlv"                                 Water Sunnlv"                                   Water Suoolv"
        SPACEC                  Conformino•           Nonconformino'            Conformi na•          Nonconforming'           Conforminq•           Nonconforming"

 Nonconforming                                                                                              !RI                     TR I
                                     IR 2                    IR I                   1R I                                                              Not Permitted
                                                                                                            N.C.                    N.C.

Conforming                           fR 3                    IR 2                   LR 2                    TR I                    IR I
                                                                                                                                                            fR I
                                                                                                                                                            N.C.
 1.5 x Conforming              Not Required                  IR 3                   JR 3                    IR 2                    TR 2                    IR I
a. Access shall be in accordance with Section 402.
b. Subdivisions shall have a confonning water supply in accordance with Section 402.1.
  [R I = Ignition-resistant construction in accordance with Section 504.
  IR 2 = lgnition-resistam construction in accordance with Section 505.
  LR 3 = Ignition-resistant construction in accordance with Section 506.
  N.C. = Exteri or walls shall have a tire- resistance rating of not k ss than I -hour and the exterior surfaces of sud1 walls shall be noncombustible. Usage oflog wall
         construction i s allowed.
c. Conformance based on Section 603.
u. Conformance b:1sed on Section 404.
e. A noncon forming water supply i s any water system or source that does not comply with Section 404. including situations where there i s no wmer supply for struc-
   ture protection or fire suppression.


2006 UTAH WlLDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE                                                                                                                                    15
SPECIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS




504.3 Protection o f eaves. Eaves and softits shall be protected       504.11 Detached accessory structures. Detached accessory
on the exposed underside by materials approved fo r a mini-            structures located less than 50 feet ( 15 240 mm) from a bu ild-
mum of I-hour fire-resistance-rated construction. Fasc ias are         ing containing habitable space shall have ex terior wal ls con-
required and must be protected on the backside by materials            structed with materials approved fo r a minimum of 1-hou r tire-
approved for a minimum of I-hour fire-resistance-rated con-            resistance-rated constructio n, heavy timber, log wall construc-
struct.ion or 2-inch (5 1 mm) nominal dimensio n lumber.               tion or constructed with approved noncombusti ble materi als on
504.4 Gutters and downspouts. Gutters and downspouts                   the exterior side.
shall be constructed of noncombusti ble material.                         When the detached structure is located and cons tructed so
504.5 Exterior walls. Exterio r walls of bui Idings or structures      that the struct ure or any portio n thereof proj ects over a de-
shall be constructed with materials approved for a min imum of         scending s lope surface greater than 10 percent, the area below
I-hour fire-resistance-rated construction on the exterior side or      the structure shall have all underfloor areas enclosed to withi n 6
constructed with approved noncombustible materials.                    inche.s ( 152 mm) of the ground, with exterior wall construct.ion
                                                                       in accordance with Section 504.5 or underfloor protectio n in
     Exception: Heavy ti mber or log wall construction.                accordance with Section 504.6.
   Such material shall extend from the top of the foundation to           Exception: The enclosure may be omi tted where the under-
the unders ide o f the roof sheathing.                                    side o f all exposed floor s and all ex posed stru ctural col-
504.6 Unenclosed underfloor protecti on. Buildings or SII'ltC-            umns, beams and supporting wall s are protected as required
tures s hall have all underfloor areas enclosed to the ground             for exterior I-hour flre-resistance-rated construction or
with exterio r walls in accordance with Section 504.5.                    heavy-timber constructio n.
     Exception: Complete e nclosure may be omitted where the              See Section 504.2 for roof requirements.
     unders ide of all exposed floors and all ex posed structural
     columns, beams and s upporting walls are protected as re-
     quired for exterior I-hour fire-resistance-rated cons truction                          SECTION 505
     or heavy timber constructio n.                                      CLASS 2 IG NITION-RESISTANT CONSTRUCTION
504.7 Appendages and projections. Unenclosed accessory                 505.l General. Class 2 ign itio n-resistant construction s hall be
structures attached to buildi ngs with habitable spaces and pro-       in accordance with Section 505.
jectio ns, suc h as decks, shall be a min imum of I-hou r fire-re-     505.2 Roof covering. R oofs shal l have at least a C lass A roof
s is tance-rated construction, heavy tim ber construc ti on or         cove r in g, C lass B roof asse mb ly o r a n ap p rove d
constructed of approved noncombustible m ateri als.                    noncombustible roof covering. For roof coveri ngs where the
   When the attached structure is located and constructed so           profi le al lows a s pace between the roof covering and roof deck-
that the structure or any portion thereof projects over a de-          ing, the space at the eave ends shall be firestopped to preclude
scending slope surface greater than lO pe rcent, the area below        entry of flames or embers.
the structure shall have all underfloor areas enclosed to within       505.3 Protection of eaves. Co mbustib le eaves, fasc ias and sof-
6 inches ( 152 mm) of the ground, with exterior wall construc-         fits shall be enclosed with solid materials with a minimum
tion in accordance wi th Section 504.5.                                thickness of 3/ 4 inch ( 19 mm). No exposed ra fter tails shall be
504.8 Exterior glazing. Exterior windows, wi ndow walls and            permitted unless co nstructed of heavy Limber materials.
g lazed doors, windows within exterior doors, and skylights            505.4 Gutters and downspouts. Gutters and dow nspouts shall
shall be tempered glass, multilayered glazed panels, glass             be constructed of noncombusti ble material.
block or have a fi re protection rating of not less than 20 min-
utes.                                                                  505.5 Exterio r walls. Exterior walls of buildings or structures
                                                                       shall be constructed wi th materials approved for a minimum of
504.9 Exterior doors. Exterio r doors shall be approved                I -hour fire-resistance-rated const ruction on the exterior side or
noncombustible construction, solid core wood not Jess than 13/ 4       constructed with approved noncombustible materials.
inches thick (45 mm), or have a fi re p rotection rating of not less
than 20 minutes. Windows within doors and glazed doors shall              Exception: Heavy timber or log wall construction.
be in accordance with Section 504.8.                                      Such mate rial s hall extend from the top of the foundation to
     Exception: Veh icle access doors.                                 the underside of the roof sheathing.

504.10 Vents. Attic ventilation openings, foundation or under-         505.6 Unenclosed underfloor protection. B ui ldings or struc-
floor vents, or other ventilation openings in vert ical exterior       tures shall have all underfloor areas enclosed to the ground,
wa lls and vents through roofs s hall not exceed 144 square            with ex teri or walls in accordance with Section 505.5.
inches (0.0929 111 2) each. Such vents shall be covered with              Exception: Complete enclosure may be omitted where the
noncombustible corrosion-resistant mesh wi th openings not to             unders ide of aU exposed floo rs and all exposed structura l
exceed 1/.. inch (6.4 mm).                                                columns, beams and supporting walls are protected as re-
   Att ic ventilation open ings shall not be located in soffits, in       quired for exterior I-hour fire-res istance-rated constructi on
eave overhangs, between rafters at eaves, o r in other overhang           or heavy timber construction.
areas. Gable end and dormer vents shall be located at least I 0        505.7 Appendages and projections. Unenclosed accessory
fee t (3048 mm) from property lines. Underfloor ventilation            structures attached to buildings with habitable spaces and pro-
openings shall be located as c lose to grade as practical.             jections, s uch as decks, shall be a minimum of 1-hour fire-re-

16                                                                                   2006 UTA H WILDLAND-URBAN INTER FACE CODE
                                                                                SPECIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS




sistance-rated construction, heavy timbe r construction or                                  SECTION 506
constructed with approved noncombustible materials.                     CLASS 3 IGNITION-RESISTANT CONSTRUCTION
   When the attached structure is located and constructed so          506.1 General. Class 3 ignition-resistant construction shall be
that the struc ture or any portion thereof projects over a de-        in accordance with Section 506.
scending slope surface greater than 10 percent, the area below        506.2 Roof covering. Roofs shall have at least a Class A roof
the structure shall have al I underfloor areas enclosed to within 6   covering , Class C roof assembly or an approved
inches ( 152 mm) of the ground, with exterior wall construction       noncombustible roof covering. For roof coverings where the
in accordance with Section 505.5.                                     profile allows a space between the roof covering and roof deck-
                                                                      ing, the space at the eave ends shall be lirestopped to preclude
505.8 Exterior glazing. Exterior windows. window walJs and
                                                                      entry of flames or embers.
glazed doors, windows withi n ex terior doors, and skylights
shal l be tempered glass, multilayered glazed panels, glass           506.3 Unenclosed underfloor protection. Bui ldings or struc-
block or have a fire-protection rating of not less than 20 min-       tures shall have all undedloor areas enclosed to the ground
utes.                                                                 with ex teri or walls.
                                                                         Exception: Complete enclosure may be omitted where the
505.9 Exterior doors. Exterior doors shall be approved
                                                                         underside of all exposed floors and all exposed structural
noncombustible construction, solid core wood not less than
                                                                         columns, beams and supporting walls are protected as re-
1-1/,- inches thick (45 mm), or have a fire protection rating ofnot
less than 20 minutes. Windows within doors and glazed doors              quired for exterior 1-hour fire-resistance-rated construction
                                                                         or heavy timber construction.
s hall be in accordance with Section 505.8.
                                                                      506.4 Vents. Attic ven tilation openings, soffit vents, founda-
   Exception: Vehicle access doors.                                   tion or underfloor vents or other ventilation openi ngs in verti-
505.10 Vents. Attic ventilation openings, foundation or under-        cal ex terior walls and vents through roofs shall not exceed 144
floor vents or other ventilation openings in vertical exterior        square inches (0.0929 m!) each. Such vents shall be covered
walJs and vents through roofs s hall not exceed 144 square            with noncombustible corrosion-res istant mesh with openings
inches (0.0929 m~) each. Such vents shall be covered with             not to exceed 1/ 4 inch (6.4 mm).
noncombustible corrosion-res istant mesh with openings not to
exceed 1/ 4 inch (6.4 mm).
                                                                                                SECTION 507
   Attic ventilation openings shall not be located in softit5, in     REPLACEMENT OR REPAIR OF ROOF COVERINGS
eave overhangs, between rafters at eaves, or in other overhang        The roof covering on buildings or structures in existence prior
areas. Gable end and dormer vents shall be located at least I 0       to the adoption of this code that are replaced or have 25 percent
feet (3048 mm) from property lines. Underfloor ventil ation           or more replaced in a 12-month period shall be replaced with a
openings shal l be located as close to grade as practical.            roof covering required for new construction based on the type
505.11 Detached accessory structures. Detached accessory              of ign ition-res istant construction specified in accordance with
                                                                      Section 503.
structures located less than 50 feet ( 15 240 mm) from a build-
ing containing habitable space shalJ have exterior walls con-
structed with materials approved for a minimum of I-hour fire-
resistance-rated constructi on, heavy timber, log waJJ construc-
tion, or constructed with approved noncombustible material on
the exterior side.
   When the detached structu re is located and constructed so
that the structure o r any portion thereof projects over a de-
scending slope surface greater than 10 percent, the area below
the structure shall have al.l underfloor areas enclosed to within 6
inches ( 152 mm) of the ground, with exterior wall construction
in accordance witb Section 505.5 or underfloor protection in
accordance w ith Section 505.6.
   Exception: The enclosure may be omitted where the under-
   side of all exposed floors and all exposed structural col-
   umns, beams and supporting walls are protected as required
   for exterior 1-hour fu·e-resistance-rated construction or
   heavy-timber construction.
See Section 505.2 for roof requirements.




2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE                                                                                             17
18   2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
                                                            CHAPTER 6

                                FIRE PROTECTION REQUIREMENTS

                      SECTION 601                                      site-specific analysis based on local conditions and the fi re pro-
                        GENERAL                                        tection plan.
601.1 Scope. The provisions of this chapter establish general             Persons owni ng, leasing, controll ing, operating or maintain-
requirements for new and ex isti ng buildings, structures and          ing buildings or structures requiring defensible spaces are re-
premises located within wildland-urban interface areas.                s pons ible for modifying or removing nonfire-res isti ve
601.2 Objective. The objective of this chapter is to establish         vegetation on the property owned. leased or controlled by said
minimum requirements to mitigate the risk to li fe and property        person.
from wildland fire exposures, exposures from adjacent struc-
                                                                          Trees are allowed with in the defensible space, provided the
tures and to mitigate structure fires fro m spreading to wi ldland
                                                                       horizontal distance between crowns of adjacent trees and over-
fuels.
                                                                       head electrical facilities or unmodified fuel is not less than 10
                                                                       feet (3048 mm). Deadwood and litter shall be regularly re-
                                                                       moved from trees.
                  SECTION 602
       AUTOMATIC FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS                                   Where ornamental vegetative fuels or c ultivated ground
                    DELETED                                            cover, such as green grass, ivy, succulents o r sinlilar plants are
                                                                       used as ground cover, they are allowed to be with in the desig-
                                                                       nated defensible space, provided they do not form a means of
                       SECTION 603                                     transmitting fire from the native growth to any structure.
                  DEFENSIBLE SPACE
                                                                                               TABLE 603.2
603.1 Objective. Provisions of this section are intended to                             REQUIRED DEFENSIBLE SPACE
modify the fuel load in areas adjacent to structures to create a
                                                                         WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE         FUEL MODIFICATION DISTANCE
defensible space.                                                                  AREA                              (feet)
603.2 Fuel modification. ln order to qualify as a conforming           Moderate hazard                                  30
defensible space for individual buildings or structmes on a prop-
erty, fuel modificati on shall be provided within a distance from      High hazard                                      50
buildings or structures as spec ified in Table 603.2. For al I other   Extreme hazard                                  100
purposes, the fuel modification di stance s hall not be less than
                                                                       For S[: I foot= 304.8 mm.
30 feet (9144 nun) or to the property line, whic hever is less.
Distances specified in Table 603.2 shall be measured on a hori-        603.3 Community fuel modification zones. Fuel modification
zontal pl ane from the perimeter or projection of the building or      zones to protect new communities shall be provided when re-
structure as s hown in Figure 603.2. Distances specified in Ta-        quired by the code official in accordance with Section 603, in or-
ble 603.2 may be modified by the code official because of a            der to reduce fuel loads adjacent to communities and structures.




                                                        FIGURE 603.2
                                          MEASUREMENTS OF FUEL MODIFICATION DISTANCE



2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE                                                                                                 19
FIRE PROTECTION REQUIREMENTS




     603.3.1 Land ownership. Fue l modification zone land used to                               SECTION 606
     protect a community shall be under the control of an associa-        LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS INSTALLATIONS
     tion or other common ownership inst111111ent for the life of the   606.1 General. The s torage of LP-gas and the insta llation and
     community to be protected.                                         maintenance of pertinent equipment shall be in accordance
     603.3.2 Fuel modification zone plans. Fuel modification            with the International Fire Code or, in the absence thereof, rec-
     zone plans shall be approved prior to fuel modification work       ognized standards.
     and shall be placed on a site grading plan shown in plan view.     606.2 Location of containers. LP-gas containers shall be lo-
     An elevation plan shall also be provided to ind icate the length   cated within the defensible space in accordance with the
     of the fuel mod ification zone on the slope. Fuel modification     lnterational Fire Code.
     zone plans shall indude, but not be limited to the following:
        l. Plan showing existing vegetation.
                                                                                                SECTION 607
        2. Photographs showing natural cond itions prior to
                                                                           STORAGE OF FIREWOOD AND COMBUSTIBLE
           work being perfo1med.
                                                                                                 MATERIALS
        3. G rading plan showing location of proposed buildings
                                                                        Firewood and combusti ble material shall not be stored in unen-
           and structures , and set backs from top of slope to all
                                                                        closed spaces beneath buildings or structures, or on decks or
           buildings or structures.
                                                                        under eaves, canopies or other projections or overhangs. When
                                                                        required by the code official, storage of firewood and combus-
                                                                        tible material stored in the defensible space sha!J be located a
                   SECTION 604
                                                                        minimum of 30 feet (9144 mm) from structures and separated
         MAINTENANCE OF DEFENSIBLE SPACE
                                                                        from the crown of trees by a minimum horizontal distance of 15
604.l General. Defensible spaces required by Section 603                feet (4572 mm).
shall be maintained annually, or as necessary in accordance
                                                                           Firewood a nd combustible materials not for consumption on
with Section 604.
                                                                        the premises shall be stored so as to not pose a hazard. See Ap-
604.2 Modified area. Non.fire-resistive vegetation or growth            pendi x A.
shall be kept clear of buildings or structures, in accordance
with Section 603, in such a manner as to provide a clear area fo r
fire suppression operations.
604.3 Responsibility. Persons owning, leasing, controlling,
operating o r maintaining buildings or structures are responsi-
ble for mainte nance of defensible s paces. Maintenance of the
defensible space shall include modi fy ing or removing non.f ire-
resistive vegetation and keeping leaves, needles and other dead
vegetative material regularly removed from roofs of buildings
and structures.
604.4 Trees. individual trees and/or small clumps of trees or
brush crowns, extending to within 10 fee t (3048 111111) of any
structure, shall be prnned to maintain a minimum horizontal
clearance of LO feet (3048 mm). Tree crowns within the defen-
s ible space shall be pruned to remove Limbs located less than 6
feet ( 1829 mm) above the ground su1face adjacent to the trees.
     Portions of tree crowns that extend within IO feet (3048
111111) of the outlet of a chimney shall be pruned to maintain a
minimum horizontal clearance of IO feet (3048 mm).
     Deadwood and litter shall be regularly removed from trees.


                        SECTION 605
                     SPARK ARRESTERS
Chimneys serving fireplaces, barbecues, incinerators or deco-
rative heating appliances in wh ich solid or liquid fuel is used,
shall be provided with a spark arrester. Spark arresters shall be
constructed of woven or welded wire sc reening of 12 USA
standard gage wi re (0.1046 inch) (2.66 mm) having openings
not exceeding 1/ 2 inch ( 12.7 mm).
  The net free area of the spark arrester shall not be less than
four times the net free area of the outlet of the chimney.

20                                                                                    2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
                                                           APPENDIX A

                              GENERAL REQUIREMENTS (optional)

                       SECTION A101                                           A102.3.3.2 Trimming clearance. At the time of trim-
                         GENERAL                                              ming, clearances not less than those established by Table
AIOI.I Scope. The provis ions of this appendix establish ge n-                A 102 .3.3.2 shall be prov ided . The radial clearances
eral requirements applicable to new and ex isting properties lo-              shown below are minimu m clearances that shall be es-
cated within urban-wildland interface areas.                                  tablished, at time of trimming, between the vegetation
                                                                              and the energized conductors and associated live parts.
AlO.l.2 Objective. T he objective of this appendix is to provide
necessary fi re-protec tion measures to reduce the threat of wild-                         TABLE A102.3.3.2
                                                                               MINIMUM CLEARANCES BETWEEN VEGETATION
fi re in an urban-wild la nd interface area and improve the capa-              AND ELECTRICAL LINES AT TIME OF TRIMMING
bility of controlling s uch fires.
                                                                                                           MINIMUM RADIAL CLEARANCE
                                                                                  LINE VOLTAGE               FROM CONDUCTOR /feet\
                                                                                  2,400-72.000                           4
                    SECTION A102
                 VEGETATION CONTROL                                              72,00 1- 110,000                        6

Al02.l General. Vegetation control shall comply with this                        I I0.001 -300,000                       IQ
section.                                                                        300.00 I or more                         15
Al02.2 Clearance of brush or vegetative growth from road-             For SI: I foot=304.8111111.
ways. The code official is authorized to require areas within I0                  Exception: The code official is authorized to estab-
feet (3048 mm) on each side of portions of fire apparatus access                  lish min imum clearances different than those speci-
roads and dr iveways to be cleared of nonfire-resis tive vegeta-                  fi ed b y Ta b le A l 02.3 .3.2 when ev idence
tio n growth.                                                                     substantiating such othe r clearances is submitted to
   Exception: S ing le specimens of trees, ornam ental vegeta-                    and approved by the code officia l.
   tive fuels or cultivated ground cover, such as green grass.                A102.3.3.3 Minimum clearance to be maintained.
   ivy, succulents or s imilar plants used as ground cover. p ro-             Clearances not less than those established by Table
   vided they d o not form a means of readily transmitting fire.              AI 02.3.3.3 shall be maintained during such periods of
Al02.3 Clearance of brush and vegetative growth from                          time as designated by the code official. The site-specific
electrical transmission and distribution lines.                               clearance achieved, at time of pruning, shall vary based
                                                                              o n species growth rates, the utility company-specific
   Al02.3.1 General. Clearance of brush and vegetative
                                                                              trim cycle, the potential line sway due to wind, line sag
   growth from e lectrical transmission and distribution lines
                                                                              due to electrical load ing and ambi ent temperature and
   shall be in accordance with Section Al02.3.
                                                                              the tree' s location in proxi mity to the high voltage li nes.
      Exception: Section Al02.3 does not authorize persons
                                                                                  Exception: The code official is authorized to estab-
      not having legal right of entry to enter on or damage the
                                                                                  lish minimum clearances different than those speci-
      property of others without consen t o f the owner.
                                                                                  fi e d b y T a b le A l02 . 3 .3 . 3 w be n ev ide nce
   A102.3.2 Support clearance. Persons owning, controlling,                       substantiating such other c learances is submi tted to
   operating or maintai ning electrical transmissio n or distribu-                and approved by the code official.
   tio n lines shall have an approved program in pl ace that iden-
                                                                                          TABLE A102.3.3.3
   tifies poles or towers with equipment and hardware types                 MINIMUM CLEARANCES BETWEEN VEGETATION AND
   that have a history of becoming an ignition source, and pro-                   ELECTRICAL LINES TO BE MAINTAINED
   vides a combustible free space co nsisting of a clearing of no t
                                                                                  LINE VOLTAGE             MINIMUM CLEARANCE /inches)
   less than LO feet (3048 mm) in each direction from the outer
   circumference of such pole or tower during such periods of                       750-35,000                            6
   time as designated by the code official.
                                                                                  35,00 1-60,000                         [?
      Exception: Lines used exc lusively as telephone, tele-                     60,00 1-1 15,000                        19
      graph, messenger call, alarm transmission or other lines
      classed as co mmunication circuits by a public utility.                    115,00 1-230,000                       30.5

   A102.3.3 Electrical distribution and transmission line                       230,001-500,000                          115
   clearances.                                                        For SI: I inch = 25.4 111111.
      Al02.3.3.1 General. Clearances between vegetation                       Al02.3.3.4 Electrical power line emergencies. During
      and electrical lines shall be in accordance with Sectio n               emergencies, the utili ty shall perform the requi red work
      A l02.3.3.                                                              to the extent necessary to clear the hazard. An emergency

2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE                                                                                                  21
APPENDIX A




        can include situations such as trees falling into power            Exception: Public officers acting within their scope of duty.
        lines, or trees in violation of Table A I 02.3.3.3.
                                                                           Radi o and televis ion aerials, guy wires thereto, and other ob-
Al02.4 Correction of condition. The code official is autho-             structions shall not be installed or maintained on fi re roads or
rized to give notice to the owner of the property on which con-         defensible spaces, unless located 16 feet (4877 mm) or more
ditio ns regu lated by Section A 102 exist to correct such              above such fi re road or defen sible space.
conditions. If the owner fai ls to correct such conditions, the
                                                                        A103.4 Use of motorcycles, motor scooters, ultralight air-
legislative body of the jurisdiction is authorized to cause the
                                                                        craft and motor vehicles. Motorcycles, motor scooters,
same to be done and make the expense of such correction a lien
                                                                        ultralight aircraft and motor veh icles shall not be operated
on the property where such condition exists.
                                                                        within urban-wildland interface areas, without a permit by the
                                                                        code offi cial, except on clearly establ ished public or private
                                                                        roads. Pem1issio n from the property owner shall be presented
                      SECTION A 103
                                                                        when requesting a permit.
                   ACCESS RESTRICTIONS
Al03.1 Restricted entry to public lands. The code official is           A103.5 Tampering with locks, barricades, signs and ad-
authorized to determine and publicly announce when urban-               dress markers. Locks, barricades, seals, cab les, signs and ad-
wildland interface areas shall be closed to entry and when such         dress markers installed with in urban-wildland interface areas.
areas shall again be opened to entry. Entry on and occupation of        by or under the control of the code offi cial, shaU not be tam-
urban-wild land interface areas, except public roadways, inhab-         pered with, mutilated, destroyed or removed.
ited areas or established trai Is and campsites that have not been        Gates, doors, barriers and locks instaUed by o r under the
closed during such time when the urban-wildland interface               control of the code o fficial shall not be unlocked.
area is closed to entry, is prohibited.
     Exceptions:
                                                                                             SECTION A 104
       I. Residents and owners of private property within ur-                         IGNITION SOURCE CONTROL
          ban-wildland interface areas and their invitees and
          guests going to or bei ng on their lands.                     Al04.1 General. Ignitio n sources shall be in accordance with
                                                                        Section A I04.
       2. Entry, in the course of duty, by peace or police offi-
          cers, and other duly authorized public o fficers, mem-        A104.2 Objective. Regulatio ns in this section are intended to
          be rs of a fire department and members of the                 provide the minimum requirements to prevent the occurrence
          Wildland Firefi ghting Service.                               of wi ldfires.
Al03.2 Trespassing on posted private property.                          A104.3 Clearance from ignition sources. Clearance between
     A103.2.1 General. When the code official determines that a         ignition sources and grass, brush or other combustible materi-
     specific area within an urban-wildland interface area pres-        als s hall be maintai ned a minimum of 30 feet (9144 mm).
     ents an exceptional and continuing fire danger because of          A104.4 Smoking. When required by the code official, signs
     the dens ity of natural growth.difficulty of terrain, proximity    shall be posted stating NO SMOKING. No person shall smoke
     to structures or accessibility to the public, such areas shall     with in 15 feet (4572 mm) of combustible materials or nonfire-
     be restricted or closed until changed conditions warrant ter-      resistive vegetation.
     mination o f such restri ction or closure. Such areas shall be
                                                                           Exception: Places of habitation or in the boundaries of es-
     posted in accordance with Section AI03.2.2.
                                                                           tablished s moki ng areas or campsites as des ignated by the
     A 103.2.2 Signs. Approved signs prohibi.ting entry by unau-           code offic ial.
     thorized persons and referring to this code shall be pl aced o n
     every closed area.                                                 Al04.5 Equipment and devices generating heat, sparks or
                                                                        open flames. Equipment and devices generating heat, sparks
     A103.2.3 n·espassing. Entering and re maining within ar-           or open flames capable of igniting nearby combustibles shall
     eas closed and posted is prohibited.                               not be used in urban- wildland interface areas without a perm it
        Exception: O wners and occupiers of pri vate or publ ic         from the code official.
        property within cl osed and posted areas; their g uests o r        Exception: Use o f approved equipment in habitated pre-
        invitees; authorized persons engaged in the operation              mises or designated campsites that are a minimum of30 feet
        and maintenance of necessary utilities such as electrical          (9 144 111111) fro m grass-, grai n-, brush- or forest-covered ar-
        power, gas, telephone, water and sewer: and local, state           eas.
        and federal public officers and their authorized agents
        acting in the course of duty.                                   A104.6 Fireworks. Fireworks shall not be used or possessed in
                                                                        urban-wild lancl interface areas.
Al03.3 Use of fire roads and defensible space. Motorcycles,
motor scooters and motor vehicles shall not be driven or parked            Exception: Fireworks allowed by the code official under
on, and trespass ing is prohibited on, fi re roads or defensible           permit in accordance with the International Fire Code when
space beyond the point where travel is restricted by a cable,              not prohibited by applicable local or state laws, ordinances
gate or sign, without the permission of the property owners.               and regulations.
Vehicles shall not be parked in a manner that obstructs the en-           The code official is authori zed to seize, take, remove or
trance to a fire road or defensible space.                              cause to be removed fireworks in violation of thi s section.

22                                                                                     2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
                                                                                                                            APPENDIX A




Al04.7 Outdoor fires.                                                  AlOS.3 Explosives. Explosives shall not be possessed, kept,
                                                                       stored, sold, offered for sale, given away, used, discharged,
   Al04.7. l General. No person shall bui ld, ignite or maintain
                                                                       transported or disposed of within urban-wildland interface ar-
   any outdoor fLre of any kind for any purpose in or on any ur-
                                                                       eas, except by permit from the code official.
   ban-wildland interface area, except by the authority o f a
   writ ten permit from the code official.                             AlOS.4 Combustible materials.
      Exception: Outdoor fires within inhabited premi ses or              AlOS.4. 1 General. Outside storage of combustible materi-
      designated campsites where such fires are in a permanent            als such as, but not limited to. wood, rubber tires, building
      barbecue, portable barbecue, outdoor fireplace. incinera-           materials or paper products sball comply with the other ap-
      toror grill and area minimum of30 feet (9 144 mm) from              plicable sectio ns of this code and this section.
      any combustible material or non fi re-resistive vegetation.         Al0S.4.2 Individual piles. Indi vidual piles shall not exceed
   Al04.7.2 Permits. Permits shall incorporate such terms and             5.000 square feet (465 1112) of contiguous area. Piles shall
   conditions that will reasonably safeguard public safety and            not exceed 50,000 cubic feet ( 14 16 rn·1) in volume or IO feet
   property. Outdoor fires shall not be bu ilt, ignited or main-          (3048 mm) in height.
   tai ned in or on hazardou s fi re areas under the following con-       AlOS.4.3 Separation. A c lear space of at least 40 feet (12
   ditions:                                                               192 mm) s hall be provided between piles. Tbe clear space
                                                                          shall not contain combustible material or nonfire-resistive
      I. When high winds are blowing,
                                                                          vegetation.
     2. When a person 17 years old or over is not present at all
        times to watch and tend such fiTe, or
     3. When a public announcement is made that open burn-                                    SECTION A 106
        ing is prohibited.                                                                      DUMPING
   Al04.7.3 Restrictions. No person shall use a permanent              Al06.l Waste material. Waste materi al shall not be placed,
   barbecue. portable barbecue, outdoor fireplace or grill for         deposited or dumped in urban-wildland interface areas, or in,
   the disposal of rubbish, trash or combustible waste material.       on or along trails, roadways or highways or against structures
                                                                       in urban-wildland interface areas.
Al04.8 Incinerators, outdoor fireplaces, permanent barbe-
                                                                          Exception: Approved publ ic and approved private dump-
cues and grill~. Incinerators, outdoor fireplaces, permanent
                                                                          mg area~.
barbecues and grills shall not be built, installed or maintained
in urban-wildland interface areas without approval o f the code        Al06.2 Ashes and coals. Ashes and coals shall not be pl aced,
official.                                                              deposited or dumped in or on urban-wildland interface areas.
    Incinerators, outdoor fireplaces, permanent barbecues and             Excepti ons:
grills shall be maintained in good repair and in a safe condition           I. In the hearth of an established fire pit, camp stove or
at all times. Openings in such appliances shall be provided with               firep lace.
an approved spark arrestor, screen or door.                                 2. In a noncombustible container with a tightfitting lid,
   Exception: When approved by the code official, unpro-                       which is kept or maintained in a safe location not less
   tected openings in barbecues and grills necessary for proper                than 10 feet (3048 111111) from nonfLre-resistive vegeta-
   fu nctioning.                                                               tion or structures.
                                                                            3. Where s uch ashes or coals are buried and covered
Al04.9 Reckless behavior. The code official is authorized to
                                                                               with I foot (305 mm) of mineral earth not less than 25
stop any actions of a person or persons if the official determines
                                                                               feet (7620 mm) from nonfire-resistive vegetation or
that the action is reckless and could result in an ignition of fu-e
                                                                               structures.
or spread of fire .
Al04.10 Planting vegetation under or adjacent to ener-
gized electrical lines. No vegetation shall be planted under or                            SECTION A 107
adjacent to energized power lines that, at maturity, shall g row                      PROTECTION OF PUMPS AND
with in LO feet (3048 mm) of the energized conductors.                                WATER STORAGE FACILITIES
                                                                       Al07.l General. T he reliabi lity of the water suppl y shall be in
                                                                       accordance with Section A I 07.
                    SECTION A105                                       Al07.2 Objective. The intent of this section is to increase the
                 CONTROL OF STORAGE                                    reliability of water storage and pumping fac ilities and to pro-
Al0S.l General. ln addition to the requirements of the /11ter-         tect such systems against loss from intrusion by fire.
11ationa/ Fire Code, storage and use of the material s shall be in     A107.3 Fuel modification area. Water storage and pumping
accordance with Section A 105.                                         facilities shall be provided with a defensible space of not less
Al0S.2 Hazardous materials. Hazardous materials in excess              than 30 feet (9144 111111) clear of nonfire-resistive vegetation or
of IO gallons (37 .8 L) of liquid, 200 cubic feet (5.66 m 3) of gas,   growth around and adjacent to such faci lities.
or IO pounds (4.54 kg) of sol ids req uire a permit and shall com-        Persons owning, controlling, operating or maintaining wa-
ply with nationally recognized standards for storage and use.          ter storage and pumping systems requiring this defensible

2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFAC E CODE                                                                                               23
APPENDIX A




space are responsible for c learing and removing nonfire-resis-
tive vegetation and maintaining the defensible space on the
property owned, leased or controlled by sa id person.
Al 07.4 Trees. Portions of trees that extend to within 30 feet
(9144 mm) of combustible portions of water storage and
pumping faci lities shall be removed.
Al 07.S Protection of electrical power supplies. When elec-
trica.l pumps are used to provide the required water supply,
such pumps shall be connected to a standby power source to au-
tomatically maintain electrical power in the event of power
loss. The standby power source shall be capable of providing
power for a minimum of two hours in accordance with the lCC
Electrical Code.
     Exception: A standby power source is not required where
     the primary power service to pumps are underground asap-
     proved by the code official.


                        SECTION A 108
                  LAND USE LIMITATIONS
A108.1 General. Temporary fa irs, carnivals, public ex hibi-
tions and s imilar uses must comply with all other provisions of
this code in addition to enhanced ingress and egress require-
me nts.
Al08.2 Objective. The increased public use of land or st1T1c-
tures Ln urban-wildland interface areas also increases the po-
tential threat to life safety. The provisions of this secti on are
intended to reduce that threat.
A108.3 Permits. Temporary fairs, carnivals, public exhibi-
tions or s imilar uses shall not be allowed in a designated urban-
wildland interface area, except by permit from the code offi-
cia.l.
   Permits shall incorporate such terms and conditions that will
reasonably safeguard public safety and property.
Al08.4 Access roadways. In addition to the requirements in
Section 403, access roadways shaJJ be a minimum of 24 feet
(73 15 mm) wide and posted NO PARKING. Two access road-
ways sha.11 be provided to serve the permitted use area.
   When required by the code official to faci litate emergency
operatio ns, approved emergency vehicle operating areas shall
be provided.




24                                                                   2006 UTAH WIL DLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
                                                                APPENDIX B

                                    VEGETATION MANAGEMENT PLAN

Vegetat ion management plans shall be submjtted to the code                           elude removal of slash, snags, vegetation that may grow
official for review and approval as part of the plans required for                    into overhead electrical lines, other ground fuels, ladder
a permit. Vegetation management plans shall describe all ac-                          fuels and dead trees, and the thin ning of live u·ees.
tions that will be taken to prevent a fire from being carried to-                 3. A plan for maintaini ng the proposed fuel- reduction mea-
ward or away from the building. A vegetat ion management                              sures.
plan shall include at least the following info rmation:                           To be considered a fuel modification for purposes of this
  L. A copy of the site plan.                                                   code. continuous maintenance of the clearance is requi red.
  2. Methods and timetables for controlling, changing or mod-
     ifying areas on the property. Elements of the plan shall in-


                                                UTAH FIRE RESISTIVE SPECIES
                                     Adapredji'Oln "Utah Forest Fac1s: Firewise Pla111sfor Uwh Landscapes"
                                                    Utah State University Extension, 2002


Grasses                                                                          Gera11i11111 species (Geranium)
Agropyro11 cristalum (Crested Wheatgrass)                                       Hemeivcallis species (Daylily)
Agropyro11 smirhii (Western Wheatgrass)                                         Heuchera sang11i11ea (Coral Bells, Alum Root)
Bucli/oe daclyloides (Buffalograss)                                             Jberis se111pervire11s (Evergreen Candytuft)
Dactylis glomerata (Orchardgrass)                                               Iris species & hybrids {lris)
Fesfl1ca cinerea and other species (Blue Fescue)                                 Knipho.fia species & hybrids (Red-hot Poker)
lolium species (Rye Grass)                                                       lava11d11/a species (Lavender)
Poa pratensis (Kentucky Bluegrass)                                               l e11ca11the11111111 Xsuperbum (Shasta Daisy)
Poa secunda (Sandberg Bluegrass)                                                 li111oniwn lati/'oli11111 (Sea-lavender, Statice)
                                                                                 Unum species (Flax)
Herbaceous Perennials                                                            liriope spicara (Lily-turf)
Ach illea clave1111ae (S ilvery Yarrow)                                          L11pi11us species & hybrids (Lupine)*
Ach il/ea.filipe11d11li11a (Fern leaf Yarrow)                                    Medicago sativus (A lfa lfa)
Achil/ea - other species & hybrids (Yarrow)*                                     Oenothera species (Primrose)
Aquilegia - species & hybrids (Columbine)                                        Papaver spec ies (Poppy)
Armeria maritime (Sea Pink, Sea Thrift)                                          Penstemon species & hybrids (Penstemon)
Artemisia stel/eriana (Beach Wonm vood, Dusty Mi ller)                           Perovskia atriplicifolia ( Russian Sage, Azure Sage)
Artemisia - other species & hybrids (Various names)*                             Potentilla 11epalensis (Nepal Cinquefoil)
Berge11ia - species & hybrids (Bergenia)                                         Polen ti/la tridenlala (Wineleaf Cinquefoil)
Ce11tra11th11s rubber (Red Valerian, Jupiter 's Beard)                           Pote11tilla vema (tabemae111011ta11i) (Spring Cinquefoil; Creeping
Cerastiwn to111e11/osw11 (Snow-in-summer)                                        Potentilla)
Coreopsis auriculata var. Nana (Dwarf Mouse Ear Coreopsis)                       Potentil/a - other non-shrubby spec ies & hybrids (C inquefoil,
Coreapsis - other perennial spec ies (Coreopsis)                                 Potentilla)*
Delosper111a nubigenum (I-lardy lee Plant)                                       Salvia species & hybrids (Salvia, Sage)*
Diantlws p/11111arius & others (Pi nks)                                          Sed11111 species (Stonecrop, Sedum)
Erige1vn hybrids (Fleabane)*                                                     Se111perviv11111 tectoru111 (Hen and Chicks)
Gail/a,dia X grandi.flora (Blanket Flower)                                       Stachys byzantina (Lamb's Ear)
Geranium ci11ere11111 ( Hardy Geranium)                                          Yucca fllamentosa (Yucca)
Gera11i11111 sang·11i11e11111 (Bloody Cranesbill, Bloodred Geran ium)



                                                                        co111i1111ed




2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE                                                                                                         25
APPENDIX B




Shrubs and Woody Vines                                                      Trees
A1riplex species (Saltbush)                                                 Acer species (Maple)
Cea11otlllls americanus (New .lersey Tea)                                   Bet11/a species (Birch)
Cem10t/111s ovatus & others (Ceanothus)                                     Cercis canadensis (Eastern Redbud)
Cis/11s species (Rock-rose)                                                 Pop11/11s 1re11111/oides (Quaking Aspen)
Cotoneasler da111111eri (Bearbeny Cotoneaster)                              Popu/11s - other species ( Poplar, Cottonwood)
Cot011eas1er horizon ta/is (Rockspray or Rock Cotoneaster)                  Salix species (Willow)
Cotoneasler - other compact species (Cotoneaster)
Hedera he/Lt (English Ivy)
Lcmicero species & hybrids (Honeysuckle)
Malzo11ia repe11s (Creeping Oregon Grape)
Parthenociss11s q11i11q11efolia (Virginia Creeper)
Pn11111s besseyi (Sand Cherry)
P11rs/1ia tridentata (Bitterbrush, Antelope Bitterbrush)
Pyracantha species (Firethom, Pyracantha)
Rha111n11s species (Buckthom)
R/111s trilobata (Skunkbush Sumac)
Rl111s - other species (Sumac)
Ribes species (Cu1Tant, Goosebeny)
Rosa rngosa & other hedge roses (Rugosa Rose)
Shepherdia ca11ade11sis (Russet Buffalobeny)
Syringa vulgare (Lilac)
Vt11ca major (Large Periwinkle)
Vtnca 111i11or (D warf Periwinkle, Common Periwinkle)




* Plants orgrones qfp/ants marked with an asterisk ("') can become weedy in certain circumstances, and may even be noxious weeds with legal
restrictions agamst tlleirp/a11ti11g anti c11ltivatio11. Check with your local Extension office or State Department ofAgriculture for i11format1011
011 noxious weeds i11 yo111· area.


Note: Some of the listed pl ants may not be considered "water-wise" or drought-tolerant for arid climates.




26                                                                                         2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
                                                         APPENDIX C

                                   FIRE HAZARD SEVERITY FORM

                                  This appendix is to be used to determine rhefire hazard severity.

A. Subdivision Design                                   Points
I . Ingress/Egress                                                   C. Topography
Two or more primary roads                                            Located on flat, base of hill, or setback at crest of hill     I
One road                                                 10_
                                                                     On slope with 0-20% grade                                     5_
One-lane road in, one-lane road out                      15
                                                                     On slope with 2 1-30% grade                                  10_
2. Width of Primary Road                                             On slope with 3 1% grade or greater                           15
20 feet or more                                                      At crest of hill with unmitigated vegetation below           20_
Less than 20 feet                                         5_
                                                                     D. Roofing Material
3. Accessibility
                                                                     C lass A Fire Rated                                            I
Road grade 5% or less                                     I
Road grade 5-10%                                          5_         C lass B Fire Rated                                           5
Road grade greater than I0%                              10_         Class C Fire Rated                                            10_
                                                                     Nonrated                                                     20_
4. Secondary Road Terminus
Loop roads, cul-de-sacs with an outside turning
  radius of45 feet or greater                             I          E. Fire Protection-Water Source
Cul -de-sac turnaround                                    5          500 GPM hydrant within 1,000 fee t
Dead-end roads 200 feet or less in length                 8_         H ydrant farther than l ,000feet or draft site                 5
Dead-end roads greater than 200 feet in le ngth          IO_         Water source 20 min. or less, round trip                      10_

5. Street Signs                                                      Water source farther than 20 min., and
                                                                      45 min. or less. round trip                                  15
Present but unapproved                                    3
                                                                     Water source farther than 45 min., round trip                20_
Not present                                               5


B. Vegetation (IUWIC Definitions)                                    F. Siding and Decking
I. Fuel Types                                                        Noncombustible siding/deck
Surface                                                              Combustible siding/no deck                                     5
  Lawn/noncombustible                                                Noncombustible siding/combustible deck                        LO_
  Grass/short brush                                       5_
                                                                     Combustible siding and deck                                   15
  Scattered dead/down woody material                     10_
  Abundant dead/down woody material                      15_
Overstory                                                            G . Utilities (gas and/or electric)
  Deciduous trees (except tall brush)                     3          A ll underground utilities                                     I
  Mixed deciduous trees and tall bmsh                    LO_         One underground , one aboveground                              3
  Clumpeel/scattered conifers and/or tall brush          15          All aboveground                                                5
  Contiguous conifer and/or tal Ibrush                  20_

                                                                     Total for Subdivision
2. Defensible Space
70% or more of lots comple ted                                       Moderate Hazard                                               50- 75
30% to 70% of lots completed                            10_          High Hazard                                                  76-100
Less than 30% of lots completed                         20_          Extre me Hazard                                                IOI+

2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE                                                                                                  27
28   2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
                                                     INDEX



                           A                                DEFINITIONS ............... .. ............ . 202
                                                            DUMPING . ......... .... . Appendix A, Section A106

ACCESS                                                                                  F
    Applicability ....... . ................... 402
    Driveways ........ . .... . . . . ... . . ..... 403.2   FIRE HAZARD SEVERITY ............ ..... . . 502
    Fire apparatus ......... . ........ . ..... 403.2       FIRE HAZARD SEVERITY FORM ... .... Appendix C
    Grade .......................... . ... 403.7
    Individual structures .... . .............. 402.2                                   G
    Marking of roads ... .. .... . . . .. . ....... 403.4
    Restricted ........................... 403.1            GENERAL REQUIREMENTS . ..... .. ... Appendix A
    Subdivisions ......................... 402.1
ADDITIONS OR ALTERATIONS ............. 101.4
ALTERNATIVE MATERIALS OR METHODS . ... 103.3
AUTOMATIC FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS . ..... 602                IGNITION SOURCE CONTROL. ....... . Appendix A,
                                                                                                     Section A104
                                                            INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT
                           C                                     Authority to inspect ............ . .. ... 107.1 .2
                                                                 Citations . .. ........................ 107 .4.4
CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION . .... .. ....... 108                  Enforcements ........... ... . . . ....... 107.2
CLASS 1 IGNITION-RESISTANT                                       Reinspections ...................... 107 .1.3
 CONSTRUCTION .............. . .......... 504                    Right of entry . . .......... . ........... 107 .3
    Detached accessory structures .... . .. . . 504.11           Unsafe conditions ...... ... . ......... 107.4.5
    Exterior doors .................... .. .. 504.9
    Exterior walls . .......... .. ...... . .... 504.5                                   L
    Protection of eaves .................... 504.3
    Roof covering ................... . .... 504.2          LAND USE LIMITATIONS ............. Appendix A,
   Vents .............. . . ...... ... . .... 504.1 0                                         Section A 108
   Windows ............................ 504.8               LIABILITY OF THE CODE OFFICIAL ......... 102.3
CLASS 2 IGNITION-RESISTANT                                  LPG INSTALLATIONS . ..................... . 606
 CONSTRUCTION ............... .. ....... . 505
    Detached accessory structures ......... 505.11                                      M
    Exterior doors ......... . .. . . ....... ... 505.9
    Exterior walls .. . . .......... . ........ . 505.5     MAINTENANCE ....... .. .......... . ... ... 101.6
    Protection of eaves ......... . ... . ...... 505.3      MAINTENANCE OF DEFENSIBLE SPACE .... . . 604
    Roof covering .............. .. ........ 505.2              Modified area ..... . ... . ..... . . . .... .. 604.2
   Vents ........ . ..... . ............... 505.10              Responsibility ...... . .... . .. . . .... . ... 604.3
   Windows ............................ 505.8                   Trees ...... .. .... . ........ . ......... 604.4
CLASS 3 IGNITION-RESISTANT
 CONSTRUCTION ...... .. ...... . .. ........ 506                                         p
    Roof covering ........... . ............ 506.2
    Unenclosed underfloor protection ........ 506.3         PERMITS
   Vents ..... . ........ . ................ 506.4             Application .... . ..................... 105.4
CONTROL OF STORAGE ...... . . ..... Appendix A,
                                                               Approval ...... . .. .. . ................ 105.5
                                                               Expiration ............. .... . . ........ 105.8
                                          Section A 105
                                                               Issuance ... . . ......... . ...... . ...... 105.6
                           D                                   Required ...... . ........... . . . . ...... 105.2
                                                               Retention .. ...... .. ....... . ..... . . . . 105.9
DEFENSIBLE SPACE ... . ............ . ...... 603               Revocation . .. .. ...... . ......... . .. . 105.1 0
    Fuel modification ... .. .. ............... 603.2          Validity . .... .. .. . . .. . .... ..... . ..... . 105.7

2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE                                                                              29
INDEX




    Work exempt from permit ............... 105.3           Testing and maintenance .......... .. ... 404.9
PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS ......... . ... . . 106            Water sources ........... . ........ . ... 404.2
    Information on plans and specifications .... 106.2
    Vegetation management plans ..... . ..... 106.4
POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE
 CODE OFFICIAL . ....................... 102.1
PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES ...... .. ........ . 103.1
PROTECTION OF PUMPS AND WATER
 STORAGE FACILITIES . ............. Appendix A,
                                         Section A107

                           R
REPLACEMENT OR REPAIR OF
 ROOF COVERINGS ........... ... .... . .... 507
RETROACTIVITY ........ .. .. ........... .. 101 .4



                           s
SPARK ARRESTERS ... .... . ....... . ....... 605
STORAGE OF FIREWOOD AND
 COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS ... .. . .... . .... 607

                           T
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE ................. 103.2



                           u
URBAN-WILDLAND INTERFACE
 AREA DESIGNATIONS .............. . ..... 301
   Declaration .......... . ........ . ...... 301.1
   Mapping . ..... . ........... . . . . ..... . 301.2
   Review .... .. .... .. ...... ..... . . .. .. 301.3

                           V
VEGETATION CONTROL .... .. ....... Appendix A,
                                 Section A102
VEGETATION MANAGEMENT PLAN .... Appendix B

                           w
WATER SUPPLY
   Adequate water supply .... . .. . ......... 404.5
   Applicability ........................... 402
    Draft sites ............ . .. . .. . .. .. .... 404.3
    Hydrants ....... . .... .... .. . . ..... ... 404.4
    Identification ........... . ... . .. . ...... 404.8
    Individual structures .. ......... . . . ..... 402.2
   Obstructions .......... ..... ..... ... .. 404.7
    Reliability .... . .......... . . . ........ 404.10
    Subdivisions ............. . .. . .. . ..... 402.1

30                                                                 2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
  Attachment 2
Draft Ordinance
15.08.010 Building Codes Adopted

Then ,ost current edition of the International Building Code ("IBC") promulgated by the
International Code Council, and amendments adopted under the rules eMcted bytfle
State of Utah together witfl standards incorporated into tfle IBC by reference, including but
not limited to tfle most current edition oftfle lnternatioMl Energy Conse1vation Code
(I ECG) promulgated b·y the International Code Council, tfle most cu1 rent edition of the
International Residential Code (IRC) promulgated by the International Code Council, the
most current edition of the ~~at ion al Electrical Code (~ffC) promulgated by the ~~ational
Fire Protection Association; the most current edition of the International Plumbing Code
(IPC) pron ,ulgated by tfle International Code Council and amendn ,ents adopted under
rules enacted by the State of Utah, and the most current edition of the International
P1ecManical Code (IMC), togetfler vvitfl aH applicable standards set forth in the most cur1ent
edition of the International Fuel Gas Code (IFGC) as revised, amended, and adopted by the
State of Utah are hereby adopted by tfle city and incorporated herein by reference. As used
herein, the "most curreflt editiofl" of any code, affiendment or rule referenced herein
means tfle most current edition of such code, etc., as adopted froffi tifl'le to time by its
promulgating council/body and the State of Utah.



15.08.010 Building Codes Adopted (Amended)

   A. The City of Cottonwood Heights hereby adopts and incorporates by reference the
       following codes and standards, together with any revisions, amendments, or
       appendices as adopted from time to time by its promulgating council/body and the
       State of Utah:

       1. International Building Code (IBC) - The most current edition promulgated by the
           International Code Council (ICC), including all amendments adopted under the
           rules enacted by the State of Utah.

       2. International Energy Conservation Code (IECC)-The most current edition
           promulgated by the ICC.

       3. International Residential Code (IRC) - The most current edition promulgated by
           the ICC.

       4. National Electrical Code (NEC)-The most current edition promulgated by the
          National Fire Protection Association (NFPA).
          5. International Plumbing Code (IPC)- The most current edition promulgated by
             the ICC. including all amendments adopted under the rules enacted by the State
             of Utah.

          6. International Mechanical Code (IMC)- The most current edition promulgated by
             the ICC.

          7. International Fuel Gas Code (IFGC)-The most current edition promulgated by
             the ICC. together with all applicable standards as revised, amended, and
             adopted by the State of Utah.

          8. International Wildland-Urban interface Code (WUl)-Jhe most current edition
             promulgated by Title 15A of Utah State Code.

   B. For purposes of this section, the term "most current edition" shall mean the latest
          edition of each code or standard as adopted from time to time by its respective
          promulgating organization and by the State of Utah.
   C. lo the event of any conflict between the provisions of the codes adopted herein, or
      between such codes and any other ordinances or regulations of the City of
          Cottonwood Heights. the more restrictive provision shall govern and control.
   D. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this sectio n is for any
          reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any court of
          competent jurisdiction. such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
          portions of this section, which shall remain in full force and effect.
   E. Copies of each adopted code and standard shall be maintained in the office of the
          Building Official for public use and inspection during normal business hours.



9.65.025 Adoption of Utah Wildland Urban Interface

The Utah Wild land Urban Interface Code as adopted by Utah Code Section 15A-2-103, or
its successor. is adopted by the City of Cottonwood Heights as the City of Cottonwood
Heights Wild land Urban Interface Code as part of the fire code of the city. The City of
Cottonwood Heights Wildland Urban Interface Code applies to property shown on the "City
of Cottonwood Heights Wildland Urban Interface Map," a copy of which shall be
maintained on file with the city recorder and are available for examination for use by the
public.
Attachment 3
    WUI Map
           Legend
  Centerlines
  - Centerlines
  □ Parcels
  Structure Exposure Score
     5
~ • 6
    • 7
~   • 8
    • 9
    • 10
    c WU! Overlay




    o_=o~.1~=
            0._2_ _ _0~.4===0~.6---0·~,1iles




                                                           P\IDll5hlld:
                        Cottonwood Helghll            JOOd~L12il.
                        2277 E Bengal Btvd                      UORC
                    Cotlonwood He ights, UT U121      S~t L~h taunty
                           (1101) 9-44-7000        cononw<iOd Hllgl'lll
                                                              NUl'll'l;lp
       Cottonwood Heights
       Ciry bt1u-rm tl1t' r,myoJJJ




      Appendix 4

   STAFF REPORT
Chicken Coops Discussion

       Jim Spung
Date: November 18, 2025
Re: ZTA-25-004- Chicken Coop Setback


                             Business Meeting D    Work Session ~     Other D
Public Hearing Needed?       Yes D No ~ Undetermined D
                             Denied D Appro                      D
                             CM Signature: _


REQUEST
This is a city-initiated text update to Chapter 8.13 (Chickens) of the Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code. The
proposed amendment reduces the minimum setback for chicken coops and enclosures from 40 feet to 25 feet
from neighboring homes. It also includes new enforcement language allowing the city to revoke a chicken-
keeping permit if a property receives three confirmed violations. All other rules about keeping chickens,
including location, sanitation, and coop construction, remain the same.

BACKGROUND

The city's current chicken-keeping rules allow residents to keep a limited number of chickens while
maintaining neighborhood compatibility and protecting public health. The code currently requires chicken
coops to be at least 40 feet from neighboring homes. Public feedback suggests the 40-foot setback is too
restrictive for many standard-sized lots, making it difficult for residents to build compliant chicken coops.
Reducing the setback to 25 feet provides more flexibility for small-scale chicken keeping while respecting
neighboring property.

RECOMMENDATION

The Planning Commission voted to recommend APPROVAL of the proposed amendments with a 6-0 vote.



Attachments:
   1. Draft Changes
8.13.010 Requirements For Keeping Chickens

   A. It is unlawful for any person to keep within the city any chickens without first making
      application for and obtaining a permit from the city to do so. The fee for such a
      permit shall be as specified in the city's consolidated fee schedule. Although
      chickens may kept as provided in this chapter, they shall not be deemed as
      household or domestic pets.

   B. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any chicken in a manner contrary to the
      provisions of thi s chapter. Any such violation shall be a class B misde meanor.

   C. Chickens may be kept on a non-nuisance basis for familial gain from the production
      and consumption of eggs.

   D. Up to six egg-laying hens and up to four chicks may be kept on a residential lot.

   E. Roosters and crowing hens are prohibited.

   F. Location.

          1. Chickens may only be kept on a property containing a single-family detached
             residence or on a contiguous, vacant property under common ownership
             with that residence.

          2. All enclosures, pens and coops shall be located in the rear yard of the main
             dwelling or in an interior side yard in full compliance with this chapter.

          3. Enclosures, pens and coops shall not be located in a corner side yard unless
             the side yard is completely fenced using site-obscuring fencing or vegetative
             screening, so as to prevent sight of such areas from the street or neighboring
             properties to the greatest degree possible.

          4. All enclosures, pens and coops shall be located at least 4-6 25 feet from all
             dwellings (as the same may exist from time to time) on all adjoinin g
             properties and at least th-fee-ten feet from the property line, provided that a
             portable wheeled coop may encroach temporarily and from time to time on
             the three-ten foot separation from the property line. During the time a heating
             device is employed in the pen or coop during cold weather, such pen or coop
             must be se parated by at lea st ten feet from any structure containing a
             habitable dwelling on the sa me property.

  G. All pens and coops shall be maintained in a clean, sanitary condition and in
      compliance with all applicable health regulations. Without limiting the generality of
      the foregoing statement:
           1. All droppings within the coop and the enclosure shall be cleaned out at least
              once a week;

           2. Coops must be thoroughly cleaned with a standard disinfectant at least once
              per calendar quarter;

           3. Coops and related structures must be kept free from standing water and
              odor-free; and

           4. Dead birds and unused eggs shall be removed within 24 hours or less and
              shall be properly discarded.

           5. All feed shall be stored in containers preventing intrusion by rodents and
              other vermin.

   H. Coop and enclosure.

           1. A coop is required to keep chickens. The coop shall be constructed such that
               it provides adequate shelter and space for chickens to roost with at least
               three square feet per chicken . If the chickens are not allowed to roam outside
               the coop, the coop shall have a minimum floor area of six square feet per
               chicken .

           2. If a fenced enclosure for chickens is provided, the enclosure must consist of
               sturdy¼" hardware cloth wire fencing buried at least two feet vertically into
               the ground, with an additional two feet bent outwards, from the vertical
               element, to be parallel to the ground and underground. The use of flimsy wire
               mesh, including chicken wire, is not permitted in the construction of a
               domestic fowl coop, fence or enclosure.

   I.   The city may enter upon the premises for the purpose of inspecting the fowl, the
        coop and related improvements.

8.13.020 Chicken-Keeping Permit

   A. Any person who desires to keep chickens as authorized by this chapter shall make
        application to the division, on a city-approved form, for a chicken permit.

   B. The application shall include the following information:

           1. The name, address and other contact information of the person desiring the
              chicken keeping permit.
           2. The location of chicken pens or coops, including a plat showing the parcel
              and neighboring properties, property lines, and the locations of the coop,
              pen, enclosure and nearby dwellings.

           3. Basic plans and specification of the proposed coop, pen and enclosure,
              showing size and dimensions.

           4. The distance between the location of the proposed pen or coop and the
              nearest dwelling on all adjoining lots.

           5. A statement irrevocably granting unto the city permission to enter upon the
              premises for the purpose of inspecting the fowl, pen, coop, enclosure and all
              related improvements.

           6. Any other information required by the city.

   C. Upon receipt of the application, the city shall inspect the applicant's premises to
       verify compliance with this chapter. The permit shall be issued if the city determines
       that the applicant can and will comply with all regulations pertaining to owning
       chickens.

   D. The chicken keeping permit shall expire on June 30th, but may be renewable on a
       yearly basis thereafter upon application to and approval by the city as provided in
       this chapter.

   E. The rights under the permit transfer to a successor owner of the premises until the
       following June 30th, whereupon the permit is subject to renewal as provided in this
       section.

8.13.030 - Enforcement and Revocation of Perm it

A. The city may investigate any alleged violation of this chapter upon observation or receipt
of a complaint. A violation shall be considered "verified" when confirmed by c ity staff
through inspection or other credible evidence.

B. If a property receives three or more verified vio lations of any provision of this chapter
wit hin any twelve-month period. the city may revoke the chicken-keeping permit following
written notice to the permit holder.

C. Upon revocation. the permit holder shall remove all chickens from the property within
thirty (30) calendar days of the date of notice. A revoked permit shall rema in invalid for the
remainde r of the current city yea r (July 1 through June 30).
D. A revoked permit holder may reapply for a new permit after one full year has passed from
the date of revocation.

E. Nothing in this section shall preclude the city from pursuing additional enforcement
remedies as authorized under this code. including issuance of citations for individua l
violations.
   ottonwood Heights
  Ciry bttwfm 1hr r,mJYJm




  Appendix 5

STAFF REPORT
 Action Items

 Shane Topham
Tiffan Janzen

From:                      Shane Topham <WST@tophamlegal.com>
Sent:                      Thursday, November 13, 2025 12:27 PM
To:                        Jared Gerber; Tiffany Janzen
Subject:                   [EXT:]Legislation for November 18th Meetings
Attachments:               WST-Cottonwood Heights-Board of Canvassers-Declaration 2025-01 re Canvass of 2025 Final Election.pdf; WST-
                           Cottonwood Heights-Ordinance 449 Again Confirming and Ratifying Creek Road West Annexation.pdf; WST-
                           Cottonwood Heights-Ordinance 450 Amending Code Chapters 9.65 and 15.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-
                           Amendments to Chapters 9.65 and 15.08 re Wi ldland Urban Interface Code (11.3.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-
                           City's Wildland Urban Interface Map (Ordinance 450) (11.11 .25).pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Ordinance 451
                           Approving a Second Driveway Exception.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Ordinance 452 Approving General Plan
                           Amendment of 3425 East Bengal Blvd.pdf; 3425 East Bengal Blvd. GP Amendment Map.pdf; WST-Cottonwood
                           Heights-Ordinance 453 Approving Rezone of 3425 East Bengal Blvd.pdf; 3425 East Bengal Blvd. Zoning Amendment
                           Map.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2025-70 Approving Amendment 2 to ILA w ith SLCo re $1 .pdf; 251015
                           Cottonwood Heights 2157 Amendment 2_RATF.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2025-71 Approving an ILA
                           with UDOT for Canyons Traffic Enforcement.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-2025-26 Traction Control Agreement with
                           UDOT.pdf



Greetings-

Drafts of the following items of legislation scheduled for consideration at the November 18th meetings
are attached for your review and comment:

Board of Canvassers

      1. Declaration 2025-01. By this declaration the city counci l sitting as the city's board of canvassers
         will approve the canvass of the 2025 Cottonwood Heights municipal election. The final tallies will
         be received from the Salt Lake County Clerk's office and inserted into the "blanks" in this
         declaration before the meeting.

City Council Meeting

      1. Ordinance 449. Because obtaining the recordable mylar plat of the "Creek Road West"
         annexation area has taken more time than expected it's necessary for the council to again affirm
         the annexation to facilitate the further filings that are needed to finalize this annexation on state
         records .
      2. Ordinance 450. This ordinance will comply with the requirement of 2025's HB 48 for Utah's cities
         to adopt the Utah Wild land Urban Interface Code and create a locally WUI map consistent with
         the state's designated WUI boundaries. The proposed amendments to the city code and the WUI
         map also are attached.
      3. Ordinance 451. This ordinance will approve an exce ption to the city's standard requirement of
         only one driveway approach per residential lot due to unusual topography affecting the residential
         lot at 3396 Antler Way, as authorized by CHC 14.12.150.
      4. Ordinance 452. By this ordinance the council will amend the general plan designation of .48 acre
         at 3425 East Bengal Blvd. from Neighborhood Commercial to Residential Multi-Family as
         recommended by the planning commission. The exhibit to this ordinance show ing the current and
         proposed land use designations also is attached.
      5. Ordinance 453. This ordinance will amend the zoning map designation of the same parcel
         described in item 4, above, from NC (neighborhood commercial) to RM (residential multi-family).
         The exhibit to this ordinance showing the current and proposed zoning designations also is
         attached.
   6. Resolution 2025-70. By this resolution the council will approve the city's entry into the second
      amendment to an interlocal agreement with Salt Lake County whereunder the county will grant up
      to $1 .5 Million in transportation funds to reimburse the city for expenditures incurred in finalizing
      the Bonneville Shoreline Trail's location and alignment, determining public access points and
      connectivity to other regional amenities, and, where feasible, for construction activities
      concerning the trail. The purpose of the amendment is to extend the deadline for completing the
      city's work to 31 December 2026. A copy of the proposed ILA amendment also is attached.
   7. Resolution 2025-71 . This resolution will approve an interlocal agreement whereunder UDOTwill
      engage the city to provide traction control and similar traffic control services concerning the
      Cottonwood Canyon from November 2025 through April 2026 for a flat fee of $180,000. A copy of
      the proposed ILA also is attached.

Please contact me as soon as possible if there are any questions or concerns regarding the attachments.

Best regards-

Shane



WM. SHANE TOPHAM I Attorney I TOPHAM LEGAL
4930 Fairview Drive, Holladay, UT 84117
tel+801.808.6325 I Bio

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: The content of this e-mail is confidential and proprietary and may be attorney-client
privileged. If you are not the intended recipient, please destroy it and notify: wst@tophamlegal.com.



EXTERNAL ATTACHMENT: Only Open if you trust this sender.




                                                       2
                                        ~~/
                           Cottonwood Heights
                           Ciry bt/U'('('II ,,,, (il/l}OIIJ




                 BOARD OF CANVASSERS


                         Attachment 1
                      Declaration 2025-01
By this declaration the city council sitting as the city's board of
 canvassers will approve the canvass of the 2025 Cottonwood
 Heights municipal election. The final tallies will be received
from the Salt Lake County Clerk's office and inserted into the
        "blanks" in this declaration before the meeting.
                                COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                DECLARATION NO. 2025-01


                  A DECLARATION OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
               BOARD OF CANVAS SERS APPROVING THE CANVASS OF THE
                 2025 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS MUNICIPAL ELECTION

      WHEREAS, on 4 November 2025 the city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City") held a
municipal general election (the "Election"); and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. §20A-4-301(2)(a), the City's mayor and
municipal legislative body comprise the City's board of municipal canvassers (the " Boarcf') for
the Election; and

        WHEREAS, pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. §20A-4-301(2)(b), the Board is required to
meet to canvass the returns of the Election at the usual place of meeting of the City's municipal
legislative body no sooner than seven days and no later than 14 days after the Election; and

       WHEREAS, on 18 November 2025 the Board met in the meeting room of the City's city
council (the "Councir') for the purpose of canvassing the returns of the Election; and

      WHEREAS, the Board has detem1ined that the Election, and the voting therein, were
conducted in compliance with Utah state law;

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT DECLARED by the board of municipal canvassers of the
city of Cottonwood Heights as follows:

       Section 1.     The Board hereby accepts and approves the conduct and results of the
Election.

        Section 2.      The following candidates, resolutions and questions are declared and
certified to have received the number of votes indicated:

                                         MAYOR
                                     FOUR-YEAR TERM

                      Gay Lynn Bennion
                      Mike Weichers


                                   COUNCIL DISTRICT 3
                                    FOUR-YEAR TERM

                      Shawn Newell
                      Randy Prazen
                                       COUNCIL DISTRICT 4
                                        FOUR-YEAR TERM

                       Ellen Bi1Tell
                       Ernie Kim

       Section 3.     The following two candidates, having qualified by number of votes, are
hereby declared elected as members of the Council for the following terms of office:

       Gay Lynn Bennion                 Mayor                                Four-year tenn

       Shawn Newell                     Council Member- District 3           Four-year term

       Ellen Birrell                    Council Member-District 4            Four-year tenn

        Section 4.     The City's city recorder (the "Recorder"), as its election officer, shall
furnish a certified copy of this declaration (this "Declaration") and a certified copy of the results
of the Election to the office of the Lt. Governor of the state of Utah on or before the statutory
deadline for such submissions.

       Section 5.      Attached as an exhibit hereto is a report containing the information required
by UT AH CODE ANN. §20A-4-304(2) (the "Report"). Each member of the Board has reviewed the
Rep01i to ensure that it is correct, and by their affirmative vote below, authorizes and directs the
City's mayor and recorder to sign, record, publish and file the Report as required by UTAH CODE
ANN. §20A-4-301(2)(c).

        Section 6.      By their signature below, the Recorder, as the City's election officer, also
certifies that the infom1ation contained in the Report is accurate.

       This Declaration, assigned no. 2025-01, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 18th day of November 2025.


ATTEST:                                         COTTONWOOD            HEIGHTS       BOARD        OF
                                                CANVASSERS


By: - - -- -- -- - - -- -                       By:
                                                      - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - -
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                          Mich aeIT. Weichers, Mayor

                                                VOTING:

                                                Michael T. Weichers          Yea _ Nay_
                                                Matt Holton                  Yea _ Nay_
                                                Suzanne Hyland               Yea _ Nay_
                                                Shawn E. Newell              Yea_Nay _
                                                Ellen Birrell                Yea_Nay _
                                                  2
DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 18th day of November 2025.

RECORDED this_ day of November 2025.




                                      3
                         Cottonwood Heights
                         Cuy bm,v:m rht r,t11)Y111J




         CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING

                       Attachment 1
                       Ordinance 449
 This ordinance will confirm and ratify the "Creek Road West"
annexation effected by Ordinance 440 adopted on 20 May 2025.
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                      ORDINANCE No. 449


      AN ORDINANCE AGAIN CONFIRMING AND RATIFYING THE ANNEXATION OF
        APPROXIMATELY 32 ACRES LOCATED NEAR 2300 EAST CREEK ROAD
                    ("CREEK ROAD WEST" ANNEXATION)

        WHEREAS, pursuant to its Ordinance 440 ("Ordinance 440") dated 20 May 2025 the city
council (the "Cozmcif') of the city of Cottonwood Heights, Utah (the "City") approved annexation
of an area of approximately 32 acres (the "Property") abutting the City's Southerly boundary,
situated along and to the South of Creek Road at or near approximately 2300 East, on or near, inter
alia, Set Point Circle, Creative Place, Creek Hollow Cove, Cravalan Circle, Pine Springs Cove,
and Creek Road, as shown on the map (the "Map") attached to Ordinance 440 and commonly
known as the "Creek Road West" annexation; and

        WHEREAS, pursuant to its Ordinance 447 the C0tmcil confirmed and ratified annexation
of the Property; and

         WHEREAS, it now is desirous for the Council to again confirm and ratify annexation of
the Property to facilitate certain filings with the office of the Lt. Governor of Utah as required by
statute; and

       WHEREAS, consequently, the Council met in regular session on 18 November 2025 to
consider, among other things, again confirming and ratifying annexation of the Property pursuant
to Ordinance 440 as previously confirmed and ratified pursuant to Ordinance 447; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the City and its residents to so act;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

       Section 1.      Annexation of the Property. The C0tmcil hereby confim1s and ratifies
annexation into the City of the real property described on the Map and corresponding extension of
the corporate limits of the City, all as provided in Ordinance 440 and UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-2-
407(6) or § 10-2-810(6) and/or § 10-2-408, as amended, as previously confirmed and ratified
pursuant to Ordinance 447.

        Section 2.      Notices and Filings. The City shall provide all required notices and make
all required filings concerning such annexation.

       Section 3.      Zoning; Roadways; Etc. Section 3 of Ordinance 440 concerning zoning of
the Property is hereby ratified and confirn1ed, as are all other portions of Ordinances 440 and 447.

        Section 4.     Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance, whether taken before or
after adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.
       Section 5.     Severabilitv. All parts of this Ordinance are severable, and if any section,
paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason, be held to be invalid or
unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section, paragraph, clause or
provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or provisions of this
Ordinance.

         Section 6.     Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

        Section 7.      Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 449, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City's Recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute; provided,
however, that (a) the annexation ratified and confirmed hereby shall take effect as required by
UTAH CODE ANN. §10-2-425(5) or 10-2-813(5), as amended; and (b) Section 3 of this Ordinance
shall take effect upon the effective date of such annexation under UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-2-425(5)
or 10-2-813(5), as amended.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 18th day of November 2025.

ATTEST:                                      COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By: - - - - - - - -- - - -                   By:
                                                   - -- - - - -- - -- - -- - - -
    Tiffany Janzen, Deputy Recorder                Michael T. Weichers, Mayor


                                             VOTING:

                                             Michael T. Weichers            Yea _Nay_
                                             Matt Holton                    Yea_Nay_
                                             Suzanne Hyland                 Yea_Nay_
                                             Shawn E. Newell                Yea_Nay_
                                             Ellen Birrell                  Yea_Nay_

       DEPOSITED in the Recorder's office this 18th day of November 2025.

       POSTED this_ day of November 2025.




                                               - 2-
                       Cottonwood Heights
                       Cuy bm,..:m tht r.in)-OIII




                      Attachment 2
                     Ordinance 450
   In compliance with House Bill 48 enacted by the Utah
  Legislature, the ordinance will amend the city's code of
ordinances to adopt the Utah Wildland Urban Interface Code
   and adopt a wildland urban interface map for the city.
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                      ORDINANCE NO. 450

             AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTERS 9.65 AND 15.08 OF THE
                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE OF ORDINANCES AND
                     ADOPTING A WILDLAND URBAN INTERFACE MAP

        WHEREAS, House Bill 48 ("HB 48") enacted by the Utah Legislature in its 2025 general
session mandates that all Utah municipalities adopt the Utah Wildland Urban Interface Code and
create a locally adopted wildland urban interface ("WUI") consistent with the state' s designated
WUI boundary; and

       WHEREAS, on 18 November 2025 the city council (the "Council") of the city of
Cottonwood Heights (the "City") met in regular meeting to consider, among other things,
amending Chapters 9.65 and 15.08 of the City's code of ordinances (the "Code") to adopt the Utah
Wildland Urban Interface Code and to adopt a WUI map for the City as required by HB 48; and

       WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed the proposed amendments to the Code (the
"Amendments") and the proposed WUI map (the "Map") prepared to comply with the mandates of
HB 48, copies of which are attached as exhibits to this ordinance; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interest of the health, safety and welfare of the City' s residents to enact the Amendments and adopt
the Map as proposed;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

       Section 1.      Adoption of Amendments. The Council hereby adopts and enacts the
Amendments as shown on attached Exhibit "A" with deletions to the current Code struck through
and additions to the current Code underlined, subject to future amendment by ordinance.

       Section 2.      Adoption of Map. The Council hereby adopts the Map attached hereto as
Exhibit "B," subject to future amendment by ordinance.

       Section 3.     Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in confonnity with the purpose and intent of this ordinance (this "Ordinance"),
whether taken before or after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

        Section 4.      Severability. It is hereby declared that all parts of this Ordinance are
severable, and if any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason,
be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section,
paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or
provisions of this Ordinance.

         Section 5.     Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
        Section 6.      Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 450, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City's Recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 18th day of November 2025.

ATTEST:                                      COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


B y : - - - - -- - - -                       By _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _
 Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                       Michael T. Weichers, Mayor

                                             VOTING:

                                             Michael T. Weichers           Yea_Nay_
                                             Matt Holton                   Yea_Nay_
                                             Suzanne Hyland                Yea_Nay_
                                             Shawn E. Newell               Yea _Nay_
                                             Ellen Birrell                 Yea_Nay_

       DEPOSITED in the Recorder's office this 18th day of November 2025.

       POSTED this_ day of November 2025.




                                                2
EXHIBIT "A" TO ORDINANCE NO. 450

    (Attach Copy ofAmendments)




                3
EXHIBIT "B" TO ORDINANCE NO. 450

       (Attach Copy ofMap)




                4
                                            Chapter 9.65

                                INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE

Sections:
9.65.010 Adoption of International Fire Code.
9.65.020 Amendments to IFC.
9.65.025 Adoption of Utah Wildland Urban Interface Code.
9.65.030 Storage of hazardous materials.
9.65.040 Fees.
9.65.050 Interpretation.

9.65.010 Adoption of International Fire Code.
    A. The edition of the International Fire Code (including the International Fire Code Standards)
from time to time adopted in UTAH CODE ANN. Title 15A, Chapter 5, with amendments, or any
successor provision, is hereby adopted by the city as the fire code ordinance, mies and regulations
of the city in order to prescribe regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property
from fire and explosion. Appendices "B," "C," " D," " E," "F," "G," "H" and "I" are specifically
adopted as part of the city's fire code. Hereafter, all references in this code to the fire code, the
international fire code or the "IFC" shall mean the edition adopted from time to time in UTAH
CODE ANN. Title 15A, Chapter 5, or any successor provision, together with its appendices.
    B. Pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. §10-3-711, a copy of the IFC shall be filed in the office of
the city recorder for use and examination by the public.

 9.65.020 Amendments to IFC.
     A. The City hereby adopts by reference and incorporates herein the additions and amendments
 to the IFC adopted by the Utah State Legislature from time to time.
     B. Section 903.4.2 of the IFC is amended to read as follows:
     903.4.2 Alarms. Approved audible devices shall be connected to every automatic sprinkler
system serving more than 20 fire sprinkler heads. Such sprinkler water flow alarm devices shall
 be activated by water flow equivalent to the flow of a single sprinkler of the smallest orifice size
 installed in the system. Alarm devices shall be provided on the exterior ofthe building and interior
spaces per NFPA 72 in an approved location. With the exception ofR-3 occupancies where afire
 alarm system is installed, activation of the automatic sprinkler system shall activate the building
fire alarm system.
     C. Section 310.8 of the IFC is amended to read as follows:
     310.8 Hazardous environmental conditions. When the fire code official determines that
 hazardous environmental conditions necessitate controlled use of any ignition source, including
firework'>, lighters, matches, sky lanterns, and smoking materials:
     (i) the legislative body ofa municipality within which the hazardous environmental conditions
 exist may prohibit only the ignition or use of the ignition source in mountainous, brush-covered
 areas or the wild/and urban interface area, which means the line, area, development meet or
 intermingle with undeveloped wild/and or land being used.for an agricultural purpose; and
     (ii) where hazardous environmental conditions exist in unincorporated areas that meet the
description in Subsection 1 (c)(i), the state forester may prohibit the ignition or use of the ignition
source in all or part of these areas, after consulting with the county fire code official having
jurisdiction over that area.
      D. As authorized by UTAH CODE ANN. §15A-5-203, Chapter 5 of the IFC concerning fire
 service features is amended to include the following provisions related to fire safety, building and
 site requirements:
       The city requires an automatic fire sprinkler system for a structure built in accordance with
 the International Residential Code ifany of the following conditions exist:
      (I) The stntcture:
      (a) is located in an urban-wild/and interface area as provided in the Utah Wild/and Urban
Interface Code adopted as a construction code under the State Construction Code; and
      (b) does not meet the requirements described in UTAH CODE ANN. 65A-8-203(4)(a), as
amended, and UTAH ADMINISTRATIVE CODE R652-l 22-200, Minimum Standards for Wild/and Fire
 Ordinance, as amended;
      (2) the structure is in an area where a public water distribution system with fire hydrants does
 not exist as required in UTAH ADMINISTRATIVE CODE R309-550-5, Water Main Design, as amended;
      (3) the only fire apparatus access road has a grade greater than 10% for more than 500
 continual feet;
      (4) the total floor area of all floor levels within the exterior walls of the dwelling exceeds
 I 0, 000 square feet; or
      (5) the totalfloor area ofall floor levels within the exterior walls ofthe dwelling unit is double
 the average of the total floor area of all floor levels of un-sprinkled homes in the subdivision that
are no larger than I 0, 000 square feet.

9.65.025 Adoption of Utah Wildland Urban Interface Code.
    The Utah Wildland Urban Interface Code adopted by UTAH CODE ANN. §15A-2-103, or its
successor. is adopted by the city as its Wildland Urban Interface Code. The city's Wildland Urban
Interface Code is part of the city's fire code and applies to the property shown on the "Cottonwood
Heights Wildland Urban Interface Map" that is adopted by this reference. as the same may be
amended from time to time by ordinance. A copy of the city ' s current Wildland Urban Interface
Map shall be maintained on file with the city recorder and available for public examination and
use.

9.65.030 Storage of hazardous materials.
    The storage of Class I and Class II hazardous materials in above-ground or below-ground
tanks, inside and outside of buildings is prohibited unless allowed by the zoning provisions
applicable to the location in which the proposed tanks are to be located. In addition, the storage of
Class I and Class II hazardous materials pursuant to this section is subject to the provisions of
NFPA 30, 58 and 59A.

9.65.040 Fees.
    In accordance with IFC Section 113, the city adopts the fees for Hazardous Materials
Permitting and Inspection, Fire Inspection, Fire Watch, Re-inspection-Delay in Preparation at
Work Site, and Blasting Permitting as set forth below. All fees set forth below shall be collected
by and paid to the Unified Fire Authority (or other fire and emergency services provider for the
city) at the time, the permit, inspection, re-inspection, or fire watch staffing is requested and shall
be a condition for issuance of the permit and scheduling of the inspection, re-inspection or fire
watch staffing.

                                            Fee Schedule

         Material             Solid Lbs.      Liguid Gal.     Gas Cub. Ft.            Fees

 Hazardous Materials          500 lbs. or      55 gal. or      200 cu. ft. or       *$195.00
 (Annually)                      less             less       less Corrosive or      Annually
                                                             Oxidizer, or 504
                                                               cu. ft. or less
                                                                  Oxygen
 Hazardous Materials           Over 500       Over 55 gal.    Over 200 cu. ft.      *$240.00
 (Annually)                      lbs.                          Corrosive or         Annually
                                                                Oxidizer, or
                                                              over 504 cu. ft.
                                                                  Oxygen
 "H'' Occupancy Backup                                                              *$ 145.00
 Generator (Annually)                                                               Annually
 "H'' Occupancy                                500 gal. or     500 cu. ft. or       *$ 195.00
 Hazardous Materials                            less tank          less             Annually
 Perm.it Dispense and Use.
 (Annually)
 "H" Occupancy                                 Over 500      Over 500 cu. ft.       *$485.00
 Hazardous Materials                           gal. tank      or any highly         Annually
 Permit Dispense and Use.                                       toxic gas
 (Ammallv)
 Other Occupancy                               500 gal. or     500 cu. ft. or       **$ 195.00
 Hazardous Materials                           more tank          more               Annually
 Permit Dispense and Use.
 (Annually)
 Aerosol products                                             Over 500 lbs.         *$195.00
 (Annually)                                                   Level 2 or 3          Annually
                                                               A1212regate Qty .
 Flammable Cryogenic                           Indoors 1                            **$ 195.00
 Fluid (Annually)                                gal. or                            Annually
                                                 more,
                                               Outdoors
                                               60 gal. or
                                                  more
 Above Ground Tanks                                            500 cu. ft. or        *$195.00
 Installation (Flammable)                                          less            **$75.00 per
                                                                R-3 Occup.             hour
                                                                 Exempt.
Below Ground Tanks                                            500 cu. ft. or     *$195.00
Installation (Fla1mnable)                                         less          **$75.00 per
                                                              R-3 Occup.           hour
                                                                Exempt.
Above Grmmd Tanks                             500 gal. or                         *$395.00
Installation (Flammable)                        more                            **$75.00 per
                                                                                    hour
Below Ground Tanks                            500 gal. or                         *$395.00
Installation (Flammable)                        more                            **$75.00 per
                                                                                    hour
Pyroxylin plastics.             25 lbs. or                                         $195.00
Cellulose nitrate                 more                                           (Annually)
(pyroxylin) plastics
(Annually)
Body Shop/Garage Under                                                               $195.00
5,000 sq. ft. (Annually)                                                          (Annually)
Fireworks - Outdoor                                                                *$485.00
Public Display (per                                                               (Per Event)
event). Cities, County                                         '-                 **75.00 per
Exempt                                                                               hour per
                                                                                    inspector
 Open Flame Proximal                                                               *$ 195.00
 Audience Indoor                                                                  {Per Event)
 Approved Fireworks (Per                                                         **$75.00 per
 Event)                                                                                hom
 Application of                More than 9 sq. ft. for flammable liquid spray      **$195.00
 Flanunable Finishes,          application or 55 or more gallons for dip tank
 Spray, or Dip                 operations.

 Blasting permit                                                                $75.00 per site,
                                                                                     $350.00
                                                                                    arumally
 Fire Standby Special                                                            **$75.00 per
 Events                                                                           hour per fire
                                                                                    inspector
 Re-inspection fee, delay                                                        **$75.00 first
 in preparation at work.site                                                     hour, doubles
                                                                                   every hour
                                                                                   thereafter.
   * Fees are assessed separately.
   ** Fees are assessed cumulatively (added to baseline pennit fee).

Authorization by code:
   IFC 105.1. 1 Permits required, fees can be assessed
   IFC 105.2.2 Inspections authorized
   IFC 105.1.2 Types ofpennits
   IFC113.l PermitFees

9.65.050 Interpretation.
    In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the applicable fire code and the
provisions of any other applicable ordinance, statute, rule or regulation, the more restrictive
provisions shall apply.
                                          Chapter 15.08

                                       BUILDING CODES

Sections:
15.08.010 Building codes adopted.
15.08.020 Fees in general.
15.08.030 Fees for sub-permits.
15.08.040 Utility connections.
lS.08.0S0 Traasitiea.

15.08.010 Building codes adopted.
    The EBost curreat editioa of the Intematioaal Euildiag Code ("IBC"') prom1:dgated by the
International Code Couacil, aad amendmeats adopted u-ader the rnles enacted by the State of Utah
together with staadards incorporated into the IBC by· refereace, including but aot limited to the
most current edition of the International faiergy Coasmvatioa Code (IECC) =promalgated by the
lateraational Code Couacil, the most c1:1:1Teat editioa of the l-ateraatioaal Resideatial Code (IRC)
promulgated by· the International Code Couacil; the rnost current editioa of t:ee National Electrical
Code (NEC) promulgated by the National Fire Protection Association; the most current edition of
the International Plumbing Code (IPC) promulgated by· the l-aternational Code Council and
amendments adopted u-ader rales eaacted by the State of Utah; and tee most cUffent edition of the
lnteraational Mechanical Code (Th4C), togeteer 1Nith all applicable staadards set forth in the most
current edition of the l-atemational Fuel Gas Code (IFGC) as revised, amended, and adopted by
tee State of Utah are eereby adopted by tee city tlfld incorporated herein by reference. As used
herein, the "most currel'lt edition" of any code, aa1endJnent or rule referenced herein means the
most cuffent edcition of such code, etc., as adopted from time to time by its prom:1lgating
cou-acil/body and the State of Utah.
    A. The city hereby adopts and incorporates by reference the following codes and standards,
together with any revisions, amendments, or appendices as adopted from time to time by its
promulgating council/body and the State of Utah:
    I. International Building Code ("JBC'). The most current edition promulgated by the
International Code Council ("ICC"), including all amendments adopted under the rules enacted by
the State of Utah.
    2. International Energy Conservation Code (IECC) - The most current edition promulgated
by the lCC.
    3. International Residential Code (IRC) - The most current edition promulgated by the ICC.
    4. National Electrical Code (NEC) - The most current edition promulgated by the National
Fire Protection Association (NFPA).
    5. International Plumbing Code (IPC) - The most current edition promulgated by the ICC,
including all amendments adopted under the rules enacted by the State of Utah.
    6. International Mechanical Code (IMC) - The most current edition promulgated by the ICC.
    7. International Fuel Gas Code (IFGC) - The most current edition promulgated by the ICC,
together with all applicab le standards as revised, amended, and adopted by the State of Utah.
    8. Utah Wildland Urban Interface Code (WUI) issued by the ICC, w ith the alternatives or
amendments approved by the Utah Division of Forestry, Fire, and State Lands - The most current
edition promulgated by Title 15A of Utah State Code.
    B. For purposes of this section, the term "most current edition" shall mean the latest edition
of each code or standard as adopted from time to time by its respective promulgating organization
and by the State of Utah.
    C. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the codes adopted herein, or between
such codes and any other ordinances or regulations of the city, the more restrictive provision shall
govern and control.
    D. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this section is for any reason held
to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any cotui of competent jurisdiction, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this section, which shall remain
in full force and effect.
    E. Copies of each adopted code and standard shall be maintained in the office of the city' s
community and economic development department for public use and inspection during normal
business hours. In this chapter, the director of such department or his designee is called the city' s
"building official."

15.08.020 Fees in general.
    The 1997 Uniform Administrative Code as published by the International Conference of
Building Officials (with valuation updates published annually in the Building Standards maga-
zine) is hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference. In addition, section 1.07.3 of the
1997 Uniform Building Code with respect to fees is hereby adopted and incorporated herein by
reference. Section 1.07.3 of the 1997 Uniform Building Code, as adopted herein, is hereby
amended to read as follows:
    When submittal documents are required by section l 06.3 .2 of the 1997 Unifonn Building
Code, a plan review fee shall be paid at the time of submitting the submittal documents for re-
view. Said plan review fee shall be as follows:
    1. 65% of the building permit for other R-3 and U occupancies; and
    2. 65% of the building permit fee for all other occupancies.
    EXCEPTIONS:
    1. Plans which have been previously reviewed and placed in the city 's plan card file in
contemplation of future pennit issuance shall be charged a plan review fee established by the
building official. Such plans may be used for issuing new permits until a new edition of the
building code is adopted by the state of Utah. In such case, the plans shall be resubmitted for
review by the city. The cost for such review shall be as required for "additional plan review," with
a minimum of two hours. Any such plans which are not used for a period of 18 months shall be
resubmitted for a full plan review, with all required fees, if they are to be used again. Card file
plans shall comply with administrative procedures established by the building official.
    The plan review fees specified in this subsection are separate fees from the permit fees
specified in section 107.2 of the 1997 Unifonn Building Code and are in addition to the permit
fees.
    When submittal documents are incomplete or changed so as to require additional plan review
or when the project involves deferred submittal items as defined in section 106.3.4.2 of the
Uniform Building Code, an additional plan review fee shall be charged at the rate shown on the
fee table.
    Charges for other services to be provided by the building department shall be based upon the
hourly rates indicated in the building code and assessed according to the following:
    A. Renewal of expired pennits where only final inspections are required, four hours;
    B. Reinspection, one hour;
    C. Inspection requested outside of normal working hours, minimum two hours;
    D. Review of new products or materials for acceptance, minimwn four hours;
    E. Request for verification of confonnance to code for existing buildings, minimwn one hour.
    The building official may detennine charges for other services provided for which fees are not
indicated.

15.08.030 Fees for sub-permits.
    Plumbing, electrical, and mechanical fees shall not be assessed when such permits are issued
in conjunction with a building permit for when required fees have been paid. If two or more sub-
permits are received, a building permit must be taken out. If only one sub-permit is required, and
no other work is to be done, fees shall be assessed in accordance with the fee schedule in Chart
15.08.030 or (following its adoption) the city' s then-current consolidated fee schedule.

15.08.040 Utility connections.
    It shall be unlawful for any utility company to provide service to any strncture or building, or
to service equipment or wiring for which a permit is required, until approval is granted by the
building official. The building official may order utility services terminated at any location where
the use is not authorized or is in violation of the building, zoning, or other ordinances of the city.

15.08.050 Trnnsitien.
    ,-\ ll building permits issued by £alt Lake County prior to the city's incorporation date shall be
goYerned by the applicable codes as of the date the building perm.it ·.yas issued.
         Legend
Centerlines
- Centerlines
□ Pa rcels
Structure Exposure Score
  s
  6
• 7
• 8
• 9
• 10
c WUI Overlay




0_=0,.
    .1-=o
        =._2 _ _ _0-.4= = =0,...6_ _ _
                                     0.~lles




                                                         11'\!bll~.;
                       Cotlon-lftOoG H,lohts       lllOUCfit72R
                       2211 E e,ng.11 BIYd                   U<IRC
                  Calton~ood H.!lyt111, UT U121    s.ttL.ataCo.lnly
                          (101) 1-44-7000         C~H119tu
                                                           ........
                         Cottonwood Heights
                         C 11y b<tU'{'(/1 ' ' " Ctl/1)0 111




                       Attachment 3
                      Ordinance 451
Pursuant to Cottonwood Heights Code 14.12.150 this ordinance
     will grant an exception to Cottonwood Heights Code
  14.12.1 lO(B)(l) by approving a second driveway access to
                          Antler Way.
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                      ORDINANCE NO. 451


                    AN ORDINANCE APPROVING AN EXCEPTION UNDER
                    SECTION 14.12.150 OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
                     CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR A SECOND DRIVEWAY

        WHEREAS, although Section 14.12.1 l0(B)(l) of the code of ordinances (the "Code") of
the city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City") provides that a single-family dwelling shall be
pennitted only one access to the adjoining public road unless a circular driveway approach is
utilized, under Code Section 14.12.150 the City's city council (the "Councif') may approve
variations or exceptions to standard requirements where unusual topographical or other
exceptional circumstances exist so long as such exceptions aren't detrimental to public safety or
welfare; and

       WHEREAS, the owner of the real property known as 3396 Antler Way in the City has
purchased additional land from a neighboring property and submitted a lot line adjustment to
incorporate into the owner's existing property the purchased property, which contains a structure
but does not have a driveway approach; and

        WHEREAS, because (a) the owner intends to build a pool and garage on the purchased
property, and (b) the existence of significant grading and elevation changes prevents extension of
the driveway on the existing property onto the purchased property, the owner desires to construct
a second driveway on the purchased property to facilitate access to the new improvements for the
benefit of the owner's entire property (collectively, the "Property"); and

       WHEREAS, on 18 November 2025 the Council met in regular session to consider, among
other things, approving an exception under Code Section 14.12.150 to Code Section
14.12.11 0(B)(l )'s prohibition on more than one driveway access to the adjoining public road as
requested by the owner of the Property (the "Exception"); and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has detennined that it is in the best
interest of the health, safety and welfare of the City's residents to so act;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

        Section 1.    Approvlll of Exception. The Council hereby approves the Exception and
hereby authorizes the proposed second driveway on the Property, finding that such exception is
not detrimental to public safety or welfare.

       Section 2.     Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this ordinance (this "Ordinance"),
whether taken before or after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

       Section 3.       Severability. It is hereby declared that all parts of this Ordinance are
severable, and if any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason,
be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section,
paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or
provisions of this Ordinance.

         Section 4.     Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

        Section 5.      Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 451 , shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City's Recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

        PASSED AND APPROVED this 18th day ofNovember 2025.

ATTEST:                                      COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By:                                          By _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
      -----------
      Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                  Michael T. Weichers, Mayor

                                             VOTING:

                                             Michael T. Weichers           Yea_Nay_
                                             Matt Holton                   Yea_Nay_
                                             Suzanne Hyland                Yea_Nay_
                                             Shawn E. Newell               Yea_Nay_
                                             Ellen Birrell                 Yea _ Nay _

        DEPOSITED in the Recorder's office this 18th day of November 2025.

        POSTED this_ day ofNovember 2025.




                                                2
                          Cottonwood Heights
                          Ciry brtt1•m1 ti" m11yo111




                        Attachment 4
                       Ordinance 452
This ordinance will approve amending the city's general plan to
change the land use map designation of the referenced parcel of
realty from Neighborhood Commercial to Residential Medium
    Density as recommended by the Planning Commission.
                                COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                     ORDINANCE No. 452

             AN ORDINANCE APPROVING A GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT
                 FOR REALTY AT 3425 EAST BENGAL BLVD. FROM
          NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL TO RESIDENTIAL MEDIUM DENSITY

       WHEREAS, the "Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act," UTAH CODE
ANN. § 10-9a-l O1 et seq., as amended (the "Act"), provides that each municipality shall prepare
and adopt a comprehensive, long-range general plan; and

       WHEREAS, the Act requires the municipality's planning commission to prepare the
general plan and submit it to the mw1icipality's legislative body; and

       WHEREAS, the Act also provides certain procedures for the municipality's legislative
body to adopt and amend the general plan; and

        WHEREAS, on 26 July 2005, following full compliance with the procedures for
formulation, public hearing and recommendation specified in UTAH CODE ANN. §§ 10-9a-401
through -404, the city council (the "Councif') of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City")
enacted its Ordinance No. 24 adopting a general plan (with all previous amendments, the "Plan" )
for the City; and

       WHEREAS, as authorized by statute, the Plan includes a land use element and an official
map (collectively, the "Land Use Element") allocating to each parcel of land in the City a specific
land use designation authorized by the Plan; and

       WHEREAS, in response to an application by Nathan Anderson/Brighton Lots LLC (the
"Application") to amend (the "Amendment") the Land Use Element affecting the parcel of realty
located at 3425 East Bengal Blvd. (the "Property") from Neighborhood Commercial to Residential
Medium Density, on 16 July 2025, following all required notices, a public hearing was held before
the Planning Commission concerning the proposed Amendment, where citizens were given the
opporttmity to provide written or oral comment concerning the Amendment; and

        WHEREAS, a photocopy of the Amendment to the Land Use Element of the Plan
proposed by the Application is attached as an exhibit to this ordinance and is incorporated herein
by this reference; and

      WHEREAS, on 16 July 2025 the Planning Commission voted to recommend that the
Council approve the Amendment, and thereafter recommended that the Council approve the
Amendment; and

       WHEREAS, after taking additional public input concerning the proposed Amendment, the
Council met in regular meeting on 18 November 2025 to consider, among other things, approving
and adopting the Amendment to the Land Use Element of the Plan; and

       WHEREAS, after careful consideration of the recommendations of the Planning
Commission, the comments at the public hearings and public meetings, and other pertinent
information, and otherwise being fully advised, the Council has detennined that it is in the best
interest of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to amend the Plan by adopting
the Amendment to the Land Use Element as proposed by the Application, and to ratify the Plan,
as so amended, as the City's general plan;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

       Section 1.     Adoption of New Plan. The Council hereby adopts the attached
Amendment to the Land Use Element, and hereby ratifies the Plan, as so amended, as the City' s
general plan. From and after the effective date of this ordinance (this " Ordinance"), the Plan shall
be deemed amended as specified by the Amendment for all purposes.

       Section 2.      Future Amendment of General Plan. Pursuant to the authority granted in
the Act, the Council shall have, and hereby expressly reserves, the right to hereafter further amend
the Plan at any time or from time to time hereafter for any purpose upon recommendation by the
Planning Commission following all appropriate public notices and hearings required by the Act.

        Section 3.     Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance, whether taken before or
after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confim1ed and approved.

       Section 4.     Severabilitv. All parts of this Ordinance are severable, and if any section,
paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason, be held to be invalid or
unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section, paragraph, clause or
provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or provisions of this
Ordinance.

         Section 5.     Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

        Section 6.     Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 452, shall take immediate
effect as soon as this Ordinance is published or posted as required by law and deposited and
recorded in the office of the City' s Recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 18th day ofNovember 2025.

ATTEST:                                        COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By:--- - - - - - -                             By: - - - - - -- -- - - - - - - - -
 Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                          Michael T. Weichers, Mayor

                                               VOTING:

                                               Michael T. Weichers            Yea _ Nay_
                                               Matt Holton                    Yea_Nay_
                                               Suzanne Hyland                 Yea_Nay_
                                               Shawn E. Newell                Yea_Nay_
                                               Ellen Birrell                  Yea_Nay_
                                                  2
DEPOSITED in the Recorder' s office this 18th day of November 2025.

POSTED this_ day of November 2025.




                                      3
                                                Plann ing Commission -July 16, 2025
                                          Project ZMA-25-003 - 3425 E. Benga l Blvd .

            CURRENT LAND USE DESIGNATION: Neighborhood Commercial




                         Be ngal Blvd                               Be ng al Blvd




,t:110J!.J!.l1i,1,:J:J:J
  !/.!JJJ)1JJ:Jt!ifol



         PROPOSED LAND USE DESIGNATION: Residential Medium Density




                                                    (




                         Be ngal Blvd                               Be ngal Blvd




,Jill,&1B!I,JJiTilil
 .!1!.li1J11J.J1!l!ill




                                                                            Page 2 of 7
                          Cottonwood Heights
                          C,ry b,t 11Ym rl,, '"")0111




                        Attachment 5
                        Ordinance 453
  This ordinance will approve rezoning the referenced parcel of
realty from NC [Neighborhood Commercial] to RM [Residential
   Multi-Family] and will amend the zoning map accordingly.
Approval of this ordinance will only be appropriate if Ordinance
452 approving a general plan amendment for the subject realty is
                           approved.
                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                      ORDINANCE NO. 453

  AN ORDINANCE APPROVING THE RE-ZONE OF REAL PROPERTY LOCATED AT 3425
      EAST BENGAL BLVD. FROM NC (NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL) TO RM
        (RESIDENTIAL MULTI-FAMILY) AND AMENDING THE ZONING MAP

       WHEREAS, the "Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act," UTAH CODE
ANN. § l 0-9a- l OI et seq. , as amended (the "Act"), provides that each municipality may enact a land
use ordinance and a zoning map establishing regulations for land use and development; and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the municipality' s planning c01mnission shall prepare
and recommend to the municipality's legislative body, following a public hearing, a proposed land
use ordinance and a zoning map, or amendments thereto, that represents the planning
commission's recommendations for zoning the area within the municipality; and

       WHEREAS, the Act also provides certain procedures for the municipality' s legislative
body to adopt or amend the land use ordinance and zoning map for the city; and

       WHEREAS, on 14 July 2005, the city council ( the "Council") of the city of Cottonwood
Heights (the "City" ) enacted its Ordinance No. 25 adopting a land use ordinance for the City and
codifying such ordinance as Title 19 of the City' s code of ordinances (the " Code"); and

        WHEREAS, pursuant to its Ordinance No. 25, the Council also adopted a zoning map for
the City (the "Zoning Map"); and

       WHEREAS, on 16 July 2025 the City' s planning comm1ss10n (the "Planning
Commission") held a public hearing on an application by Nathan Anderson/Brighton Lofts LLC
requesting the re-zone of a .48 acre parcel of real property located at 3425 East Bengal Blvd. (the
"Property") from NC (Neighborhood Commercial) to RM (Residential Multi-Family), at which
time all interested parties were given the opportunity to provide written or oral comment
concerning the proposed re-zone; and

       WHEREAS, such public hearing before the Planning Commission was preceded by all
required legal notices; and

        WHEREAS, on 16 July 2025 the Planning Commission recommended approval of such
proposed re-zone of the Property, and forwarded such recommendation of approval to the Council
for final action; and

        WHEREAS, after taking additional public input, on 18 November 2025 the Council met
in regular meeting to consider, among other things, such proposed re-zone of the Property; and

       WHEREAS, after careful consideration of the recommendation of the Planning
Commission, comments at the public hearing and other public meetings where such proposed re-
zone was discussed, and recommendations of City staff, the Council has determined that it is in
the best interest of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to approve re-zoning
the Property as specified below;
       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

      Section 1.  Re-zone to RM. The Council hereby re-zones the Property from NC
(Neighborhood Commercial) to RM (Residential Multi-Family).

       Section 2.      Adoption ofAmended Zo11i11g Map. The Council hereby amends the City' s
zoning map to reflect the re-zone of the Property effected by this Ordinance and hereby adopts the
amended zoning map that is attached as an exhibit hereto as the City's current zoning map for the
Property.

        Section 3.     Action of Offlcers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance, whether taken before or
after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

       Section 4.     Severability. All parts of this Ordinance are severable, and if any section,
paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason, be held to be invalid or
tmenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section, paragraph, clause or
provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or provisions of this
Ordinance.

         Section 5.     Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

        Section 6.     Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 453, shall take immediate
effect as soon as this Ordinance is published or posted as required by law and deposited and
recorded in the office of the City's Recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 18th day of November 2025.

ATTEST:                                       COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By:------------                               By:
                                                    - - - - -- -- - - - - - -- --
 Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                            Mich ael T. Weichers, Mayor

                                              VOTING:

                                              Michael T. Weichers            Yea_Nay_
                                              Matt Holton                    Yea_Nay_
                                              Suzanne Hyland                 Yea_Nay _
                                              Shawn E. Newell                Yea_Nay_
                                              Ellen Birrell                  Yea_Nay_

       DEPOSITED in the Recorder' s office this 18th day of November 2025.

       POSTED this_ day of November 2025.




                                                 2
                                                                     Planning Commission - July 16, 2025
                                                              Project ZMA-25-003- 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

                    CURRENT ZONING DESIGNATION: NC (Neighborhood Commercial)




                          Benga l Blvd                                                    Be ng a l Blvd




~i.lM,1tl!.If.l                             ;•-·J-:J :,;111~~
.!f.iJJJJJJJ;U:;f                                r.illIJJ!j




                     PROPOSED ZONING DESIGNATION: RM (Residential Multifamily)




                                                                          ,..

                           Be ng a l Blvd                                                 Bengal Blvd
 I_.J'r'P_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _\.-_ _ _ _ _ _ _.....,.._....,.._ _ _ __




                                             j '-·J-!J .:JjJJ~:;i-
                                                                     L~ A
                                                  rurr,l!J




                                                                                                Page 3 of 7
                       ~   _.n-,tl(       ;f\\       I




                            Cottonwood Heights
                            C,ry bttU-<(11 tht (1111)0111




                           Attachment 6
                      Resolution 2025-70
 By this resolution the council will approve the city's entry into
the second amendment to a 2019 interlocal agreement with Salt
Lake County whereunder the city will be reimbursed up to $1.5
   Million in transportation funds for expenditures incurred in
     finalizing the Bonneville Shoreline Trail' s location and
alignment, determining public access points and connectivity to
    other regional amenities, and certain related construction
   activities. The amendment extends the time for the city to
          complete such work until 31 December 2026.
                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                   RESOLUTION NO. 2025-70

                   A RESOLUTION APPROVING ENTRY INTO THE
             SECOND AMENDMENT TO AN lNTERLOCAL AGREEMENT WITH
          SALT LAKE COUNTY FOR $1. 5 MILLION IN TRANSPORTATION FUNDS

        WHEREAS, the lnterlocal Cooperation Act, UrAH CODE ANN. § l 1-13-10 l et. seq. (the
"Act"), provides that any two or more public agencies may enter into agreements with one another
for joint or cooperative action following the adoption of an appropriate resolution by the governing
body of each participating public agency; and

       WHEREAS, Salt Lake County (the "County") and the city of Cottonwood Heights (the
"City") are public agencies for purposes of the Act; and

       WHEREAS, during the 2018 General Session, the Utah Legislature passed SB136, which
amended UTAH CODE ANN. 59-12-2219 to provide for implementation of a .25% increase in the
County Sales Tax under the Revenue and Taxation Code, UTAH CODE ANN. 58-12-101 et seq., to
be used by the County for allocation to eligible transportation projects in the County ("County
Transportation Funds"); and

        WHEREAS, the County desires to use County Transportation Funds to further regional
transportation by financing all or a portion of the costs ofcertain transportation projects throughout
the County in accordance with UTAH CODE ANN. 59-12-2219(1 l)(a)(ii) and all other applicable
federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations; and

        WHEREAS, the City desires to be granted a portion of the County Transportation Funds
to defray the cost of the City's qualifying transportation projects; and

        WHEREAS, in or about April 20 l 9 the City and the County entered into an interlocal
agreement (the "Agreement") providing for the transfer of up to $ 1.5 Million of County
Transportation Funds to reimburse the City for certain costs incurred to finalize the Bonneville
Shoreline Trail (the "BST') alignment, conceptual design of the BST, determination of public
access points/connectivity of the BST to regional amenities and adjoining jurisdictions and, where
feasible, construction activities for the BST and trailheads, all as consistent with the allowable uses
for County Transportation Funds; and

      WHEREAS, the Agreement provides that the reimbursement thereunder was to expire by
31 December 2024; and

      WHEREAS, the parties previously timely amended the Agreement to extend the
reimbursement deadline to 31 December 2025; and

      WHEREAS, the parties now desire to again amend the Agreement to further extend the
reimbursement deadline to 31 December 2026 and have prepared a second amendment to the
Agreement (the "Second Amendment") for that purpose; and
     WHEREAS, the City' s municipal council (the " Council") met in regular session on 18
November 2025 to consider, among other things, approving the City's entry into the Second
Amendment; and

       WHEREAS, the Com1cil has reviewed the form of the Second Amendment, a photocopy
of which is annexed hereto; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has detennined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to approve and ratify the City's
entry into the Second Amendment as proposed;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights that the attached Second Amendment be, and hereby is, approved and ratified, and that
the City's mayor and recorder are authorized and directed to execute and deliver the Second
Amendment on behalf of the City, with any prior execution and delivery of the Second Amendment
by those officers being hereby ratified and affirmed.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2025-70, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 18th day of November 2025.

ATTEST:                                         COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By: - - -- - - - - - - - --                    By:-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - --
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                        Michael T. Weichers, Mayor


                                                VOTING:

                                               Michael T. Weichers             Yea_Nay_
                                               Matt Holton                     Yea_Nay_
                                               Suzanne Hyland                  Yea_Nay_
                                               Shawn E. Newell                 Yea_Nay_
                                               Ellen Birrell                   Yea_Nay_

       DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 18th day of November 2025.

       RECORDED this _ day of November 2025.




                                                   2
                                                                 County Contract No. 0000002157
                                                                      DA Log No. 24CN002063

                                      AMENDMENT NO. 2
                                               to the
                      INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
                                              between
                                    SALT LAKE COUNTY
                                                and
                         THE CITY OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                             Bo1111eville Slioreli11e Trail Alig11me11t

                                                ***
       This Amendment No. 2 (this "Amendment") is made to the above-named Interlocal
Cooperation Agreement by and between SALT LAKE COUNTY, a body corporate and politic
of the State of Utah (the " Cow1ty"); and the CITY OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, a municipal
corporation of the State of Utah (the "City"). The County and the City may be referred to herein
as the "Parties."



        A.      The Parties entered into the Agreement (County Contract No. 0000002157,
hereinafter the "Agreement") for the transfer of County Transportation Funds to the City to
reimburse the City for certain costs that are incmTed by the City for survey to finalize Bonneville
Shoreline Trail "BST" alignment, conceptual design, and determination of public access
points/connectivity to regional amenities and adjoining jurisdictions and, where feasible,
construction including the trail and trailheads; the primary focus of funding will be to purchase
public easements and/or private land in accordance with finalized alignment plans in order to
construct the BST, from north to south city limit; and

        B.      The Agreement included a Reimbursement Term, which was originally set to
exp ire on a date no later than December 31, 2024; and

      C.    On December 4, 2024, the Parties amended the Agreement to extend the
Reimbursement Term for an additional one-year period; and

        D.     The Parties now desire to extend the Reimbursement Term again for an additional
period to expire no later than December 31 , 2026, as permitted in Section 7.8 of the Agreement.

                                      AMENDMENT:

      NOW, THEREFORE, in exchange for valuable consideration, including the mutual
covenants contained in this Amendment, the parties covenant and agree as follows:

       1.      Section l. l (i) of the Agreement is deleted in its entirety and replaced with the
following:
          (k)     Reimbursement Term: The period of time commencing with the effective
          date of this Agreement and expiring upon the earlier of: i) the date the City has been
          disbursed, in aggregate, the Maximum Reimbursable Amount; ii) the date this
          Agreement is tenninated; or iii) December 31, 2026. The County and City
          legislative bodies hereby delegate to their respective mayors the authority to extend
          this Agreement for two additional one-year periods without legislative action.

     2.     All remaining provisions of the Agreement, not specifically altered by this
Amendment, shall continue in full force and effect under this Amendment.

        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties execute this Amendment as of the latest date
indicated below.
                                        SALT LAKE COUNTY:



                                                     Mayor or Designee
                                                     Date:
                                                             - - -- - - -- - - - - -
 Recommended for Approval:

 By: _ _ _ __ __ _ _ _ _ _ __
 Department Director
 Date:
          - - - - - -- - - -- - -
 Reviewed as to Form:
     ~ A , _ , ~ Adam Miller
   .       1 y 'f    ) 2025.10.16 15:34:13
 By.                   -06'00'
 Deputy District Attorney
                                                     CITY OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS:


                                                     By:
                                                           -------------
                                                     Name:- - - - - -- -- - - - -
                                                     Title:
                                                             -------------
                                                     Date:
                                                              - - - - -- -- - - - - -
 Approved as to Fonn:

 By: _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _
 Title:
          - - - -- - - - - - - - -
 Date: _ _ _ _ _ __ __ _ _ __
                       .___,__, -~
                                     '( lj1 ' \   ,

                          Cottonwood Heights
                          Cuy bnu-<l'II rhc <<IIIJOlll




                        Attachment 7
                     Resolution 2025-71
By this resolution the council will approve the city's entry into
    an agreement with Utah Department of Transportation
whereunder, in return for a payment of $180,000, the city will
   provide law enforcement resources to assist with parking
  enforcement, traction rule enforcement, and other duties in
connection with the Cottonwood Canyons through 31 October
                             2026.
                                   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                    RESOLUTION NO. 2025-71

           A RESOLUTION APPROVING AN lNTERLOCAL AGREEMENT WITH
        UTAH DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION FOR TRAFFIC ENFORCEMENT

         WHEREAS, the Utah Department of Transportation (" UDOT') is responsible for
providing for the safe and efficient movement of all modes of traffic on state highways within the
state of Utah, including those within local jurisdictions such as the city of Cottonwood Heights
(" City"); and

      WHEREAS, certain portions of the roadways that provide access to Big Cottonwood
Canyon and Little Cottonwood Canyon (the " Canyons") are state highways located within City's
boundaries that are under UDOT's jurisdiction; and

        WHEREAS, UDOT desires to increase law enforcement officer ("LEO") presence in the
Canyons to aid in enforcement of traction laws and parking enforcement and has requested City to
cooperatively provide certain of its LEO resources in return for funding from UDOT as described
in a proposed agreement (the "Agreement") between the parties, a photocopy of which is annexed
hereto; and

         WHEREAS, under the Interlocal Cooperation Act, UTAH CODE ANN. 11-13-101 et seq.
(the "Interlocal Act"), any two or more public agencies may enter into agreements with one another
for joint or cooperative action; and

       WHEREAS, City and UDOT are public agencies for purposes of the Interlocal Act and
are empowered to enter into the Agreement; and

        WHEREAS, City's city council (the " Council") met in regular session on 18 November
2025 to consider, an1ong other things, approving City's entry into the Agreement; and

          WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed the form of the Agreement and has determined that
it is in the best interests of the health, safety and welfare of City' s residents to approve City' s entry
into the Agreement as proposed;

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the city council of Cottonwood Heights
that the attached Agreement with UDOT is hereby approved, and that City' s mayor and recorder
are authorized and directed to execute and deliver the Agreement on behalf of City.

        This Resolution, assigned no. 2025-71, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

        PASSED AND APPROVED this 18th day of November 2025.

ATTEST:                                          COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By: _ _ _ __ __ _ _ __                           By:-- - -- - - - - - - - - - - -
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                       Michael T. Weichers, Mayor
                                   VOTING:

                                   Michael T. Weichers         Yea_Nay_
                                   Matt Holton                 Yea_Nay_
                                   Suzanne Hyland              Yea_Nay _
                                   Shawn E. Newell             Yea _ Nay_
                                   Ellen Birrell               Yea_Nay_

DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 18th day of November 2025.

RECORDED this_ day of November 2025.




                                      2
                                                            CONTRACT NUMBER:
                                                            TRACKING NUMBER:
. . ,• • Keeping Utah Moving

                                                                                          Cottonwood Heights
                                                                           Cottonwood Canyons Law Enforcement



                             COOPERATIVE                          AGREEMENT
       THIS COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT ("Agreement") made and entered into this::-::1-:::-3,,_th..........,,________
       day of November                   , 20~. by and between the UTAH DEPARTMENT OF
       TRANSPORTATION ("UDOT"), an agency of the State of Utah, and Cottonwood Heights ("City"), a
       municipality and political subdivision of the State of Utah.

                                                        RECITALS

       WHEREAS, UDOT desires to increase Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) presence in the Cottonwood
       Canyons to aid in enforcement of traction laws and parking enforcement;

       WHEREAS, UDOT is willing to provide certain funding to contribute to providing LEO resources;

       WHEREAS, the CITY is willing to provide appropriately licensed and qualified LEO for said enforcement;

       WHEREAS, the CITY has already acquired additional LEO resources;

       WHEREAS, the CITY desires to reduce the impact of ski-season-related traffic on the residents of the
       CITY; and

       WHEREAS, This Agreement is made to set out the terms and conditions by which UDOT and the City will
       cooperate to achieve the above objectives.


                                                      AGREEMENT


       NOW THEREFORE, it is agreed by and between the parties as follows:


           1. UDOT will provide a lump sum payment of $180,000, and the City agrees to provide LEO
              resources to assist with parking enforcement, traction rule enforcement, and other duties
              requested by UDOT in connection with the Cottonwood Canyons. LEOs should not be called to
              do other work except for emergency situations.

           2. Payment in a lump sum will be made in November 2025.

           3.   City shall submit a monthly report, during the months of November 2025 to April 2026, with the
                following information:
                     a. Number of officers, dates and hours of work by LEO reporting per this agreement
                     b. A count of vehicles turned away at the mouth of the canyon due to improper traction
                         control devices
                     c. Number of citations cited during this period regarding: improper traction control, parking,
                         etc.
                     d. Cottonwood Canyon Traction Control Stickers distributed (if inspecting tires during road
                         closures)

           4. City shall coordinate with UDOT Cottonwood Canyons Communications and provide content for
              public messaging, including but not limited to social media, video footage, photographs, etc.
                  a. Visual documentation will be provided during each shift

                                                        Page 1 of 3
. . ,• • Keeping Utah Moving

                                                                                          Cottonwood Heights
                                                                           Cottonwood Canyons Law Enforcement

                   b. A minimum of 10 photos or videos will be provided during each shift

          5.   This Agreement shall commence effective as of November 1, 2025 and shall expire October 31,
               2026. Either party may terminate this Agreement at any time and without cause upon thirty (30)
               days' prior written notice.

          6.   The CITY is a governmental entity subject to the Governmental Immunity Act. The City agrees to
               indemnify, defend and save harmless UDOT from and against all claims, suits and costs,
               including attorneys' fees for injury or damage of any kind, arising out the negligent acts, errors or
               omissions of the City's officers, agents, contractors or employees in the performance of this
               Agreement. Nothing in this paragraph is intended to create additional rights to third parties or to
               waive any provision of the Governmental Immunity Act. The obligation to indemnify is limited to
               the dollar amounts set forth in the Governmental Immunity Act, provided the Act applies to the
               action or omission giving rise to the protections in this paragraph. The indemnification in this
               paragraph shall survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement.

          7.   This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be an original,
               with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This
               Agreement shall become effective when each Party hereto shall have received a counterpart
               hereof signed by the other Party hereto.

          8.   This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Utah both as to interpretation and
               performance.

          9.   Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be deemed or construed, either by the parties hereto or
               by any third party, to create the relationship of principal and agent or create any partnership, joint
               venture or other association between the Parties, or to create an employment relationship
               between UDOT and an LEO.

          10. This Agreement contains the entire agreement between the Parties, with respect to the subject
              matter hereof, and no statements, promises, or inducements made by either Party or agents for
              either Party that are not contained in this written Agreement shall be binding or valid .

          11. If any provision hereof shall be held or deemed to be or shall, in fact, be inoperative or
              unenforceable as applied in any particular case in any jurisdiction or in all jurisdictions, or in all
              cases because it conflicts with any other provision or provisions hereof or any constitution or
              statute or rule or public policy, or for any other reason, such circumstances shall not have the
              effect of rendering the provision in question inoperative or unenforceable in any other case or
              circumstance, or of rendering any other provision or provisions herein contained invalid,
              inoperative, or unenforceable to any extent whatever. The invalidity of any one or more phrases,
              sentences, clauses, or paragraphs herein contained, shall not affect the remaining portions
              hereof, or any part thereof.

          12. The City agrees to undertake and perform all further acts that are reasonably necessary (except
              when expressly prohibited by law) to carry out the intent and purpose of the Agreement and to
              assist UDOT with maintaining compliance with applicable legal requirements after receiving a
              written notice that explains the need for such action.

          13. Each party represents that it has the authority to enter into this Agreement.




                                                       Page 2 of 3
  L
~ - • Keeping Utah Moving

                                                                                                                                                 Cottonwood Heights
                                                                                                                                  Cottonwood Canyons Law Enforcement


      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused these presents to be executed by their duly
      authorized officers as for the day and year first above written.

      ATTEST:                                                                                  Cottonwood Heights, a Municipal Corporation of the
                                                                                               State of Utah



      Title: Recorder                                                                          Title: Mayor
      Date:                                                                                    Date:
      UMPBESS $€Al I


               Signature:                                                                                 Signature:
                      Email:                                                                                      Email:

      • • • • • • • • e • • • • • • • • • • e ♦ ♦♦e ♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦♦ ♦ ♦♦ ♦♦ ♦•   • ♦ ♦ ♦ ■ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ • ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ■ I I   ♦ I I ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ■   •   ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ♦ ■ ■ ■ ■ ♦ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ♦ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■




      RECOMMENDED FOR APPROVAL:                                                                UTAH DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION


      By· Alex Fisher-Willis
                          DISTRICT ENGINEER                                                                                      REGION DIRECTOR

                11/13/2015
      Date:                                                                                    Date·

      Signature: "'¥ ru.fu.-Wd&,                                                                           Signature:

             Email: afisher@utah.gov                                                                               Email: rstewart@utah.gov



                                                                                               UDOT COMPTROLLER'S OFFICE
                                                                                               B :
                                                                                                                                 CONTRACT ADMINISTRATOR


                                                                                               Date·

                                                                                                          Signature:

                                                                                                                  Email: contractadmin@utah.gov




                                                                                           Page 3 of 3
