COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING AGENDA
December 3, 2025


Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission will convene on Wednesday,
December 3, 2025, at Cottonwood Heights City Hall (2277 E. Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121) for
its Work Session and Business Session meetings.

   1. Work Session – 5:00 p.m. – City Council Work Room
   2. Business Session – 6:00 p.m. – City Council Chambers

Both sessions will also be broadcast electronically on the city’s YouTube channel at
https://www.youtube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams.
Please see the reverse side of this agenda for instructions on how to make public comments.

5:00 p.m. Work Session
       1.0 Review Business Session Agenda
       The commission will review and discuss agenda items.

       2.0 Review and Discussion of Proposed Zoning Text Amendment ZTA to allow an “Employee Suite” in
       Commercial Zones.

       3.0 Adjourn

6:00 p.m. Business Session
       1.0 Welcome and Acknowledgements
              1.1 Ex parte communications or conflicts of interest to disclose

       2.0 General Public Comment
       This is an opportunity for individuals to make general public comments that do not relate to any projects
       scheduled for public hearing under the “Business Items” section of this agenda. Please see the Public
       Comment Policy on the reverse side of this agenda for more information.

       3.0 Business Items

               3.1 General plan – water chapter
               Review and discuss the draft Water Use & Preservation Element, which outlines the City’s
               coordination with regional water providers, watershed protection priorities, and recommended
               strategies for long-term water conservation.


       4.0 Consent Agenda
              4.1 Approval of November 5, 2025, Planning Commission Minutes

       5.0 Adjourn
       Next Planning Commission Meeting: January 7, 2026
Public Comment
Individuals may provide public comments verbally or via writing.

Verbal comments are accepted in person at the 6:00 p.m. Business Session, but not at the 5:00 p.m. Work
Session. At the Business Session, public comments may be given during two intervals:
   1. General Public Comment Period – An opportunity for general comments not relating to specific projects on
       the meeting agenda.
   2. Specific Project Public Hearings – An opportunity for comments relating to specific projects on the meeting
       agenda which were noticed as public hearings.

Please note that verbal comments must be provided by attending the meetings in-person. Verbal comments
cannot be provided via the electronic broadcast of planning commission meetings on the city’s YouTube channel.

Verbal comment periods are an opportunity for individuals to share comments as they see fit but are not an
opportunity for “question and answer” dialogue. Questions should be directed to city staff at
planning@ch.utah.gov. Verbal comments provided during the public comment period will be limited to three
minutes per individual, or five minutes per a spokesperson who has been asked by a group that is present to
summarize their concerns.

Alternatively, written comments may be submitted to staff via email at planning@ch.utah.gov. For written
comments to be entered into the record and distributed to the planning commission prior to the meeting, they
must be submitted to staff by 12:00 p.m. MST on Tuesday, December 2, 2025, the day prior to the meeting.
Comments received after this deadline will be distributed to the planning commission after the meeting.

Meeting Procedures
Items will generally be considered in the following order: 1. Chair introduction of item, 2. Staff presentation, 3.
Applicant presentation, if applicable, 4. Chair opens public hearing, if applicable, 5. Chair closes public hearing, if
applicable, 6. Planning commission deliberation, 7. Planning commission motion and vote on item.

Applications may be tabled if additional information is needed in order to act on the item; or if the planning
commission feels there are unresolved issues that may need further attention before the commission is ready
to make a motion. No agenda item will begin after 9:00 pm without a unanimous vote of the commission. The
commission may carry over agenda items, scheduled late in the evening and not heard, to the next regularly
scheduled meeting.

Notice of Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, individuals needing special accommodations or
assistance during this meeting shall notify the City Recorder at (801) 944-7015 at least 24 hours prior to the
meeting. TDD number is (801) 270-2425 or call Relay Utah at #711.

Confirmation of Public Notice
On Wednesday, November 26, 2025, a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the
front foyer of the Cottonwood Heights City Offices. The agenda was also posted on the City’s website at
www.cottonwoodheights.utah.gov and the Utah public notice website at http://pmn.utah.gov.

DATED THIS 26th DAY OF NOVEMBER, ATTEST: TIFFANY JANZEN, CITY RECORDER
                                                               Community & Economic Development Department
                                                                                      Cottonwood Heights City
                                                                                            2277 Bengal Blvd.
                                                                                Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121



MEMORANDUM
To:           Planning Commission
              Shane Topham, City Attorney
              Jared Gerber, City Manager
              Jim Spung, Community & Economic Development Director
From:         Sheldon Howa, Planner III
              Emma Glende, Planner I
Subject:      Proposed Zoning Text Amendment – Allowance of “Employee Suites” in Commercial Zones
Date:         November 26, 2025

Purpose
The purpose of this memo is to provide the Planning Commission with an overview of a proposed text
amendment that would allow an “Employee Suite” as an accessory use within certain commercial zones. This
amendment is intended to accommodate businesses that require an on-site employee to respond to after-
hours needs such as security issues, emergency calls, and operational support.

Background
The City’s zoning ordinance currently allows a “Caretakers’ or Guards’ Residence” as a conditional use in the O-
R-D Zone (Section 19.46.030). This use is defined in Section 19.04.450 as:

      “A residence located on a premises with a main residential or nonresidential use and occupied only
       by a caretaker or guard employed on the premises (e.g., residence for guard in a private street
       development, residence for a guard/manager/caretaker for a self-storage facility or a restricted
       access business park, etc.).”

While this existing provision enables certain on-site living arrangements, it is narrowly tailored and limited to a
single zoning district. As staff have received inquiries from businesses regarding the ability to house an on-site
employee for after-hours responsibilities, emergency response, or security functions, it has become clear that
a broader and more contemporary land-use category may be warranted.

Neighboring cities, including Holladay and Millcreek, currently allow similar on-site employee living
arrangements across multiple commercial zoning districts. These examples demonstrate that such uses can be
successfully integrated into commercial environments when appropriate safeguards and development
standards are in place.

To modernize and clarify the City’s approach, staff have drafted a new land-use category “Employee Suite”
that more accurately reflects contemporary business needs while ensuring proper regulation, safety, and
compatibility with surrounding uses.

Summary of Proposed Amendment
The amendment consists of:
   1. A new definition for “Employee Suite”
   2. A new section of development standards regulating the use
   3. Clarification that the suite must be built to applicable building and fire codes under a valid building
      permit
    Draft Definition – “Employee Suite”
    “Employee Suite” means a residential living space located entirely within the principal building and intended
    exclusively for occupancy by an employee of the business or organization operating on the property. The
    purpose of an employee suite is to provide on-site living accommodations for staff responsible for after-hours
    operations, emergency response, security, or other duties requiring presence outside normal business hours.
    An employee suite is not permitted in an accessory building or detached structure. Such suites must remain
    accessory to the principal use, may contain no more than one kitchen, and may only be occupied by the
    designated employee and their immediate family.

    Proposed Employee Suite Standards
    Employee Suites would be permitted only when all of the following conditions are met:
        1. Principal Use Required
               • The suite must be accessory to a legally established, functioning principal use.
               • Only one suite is allowed per lot or principal use.
        2. Location Within Existing Structure
               • Must be entirely within the existing principal commercial building.
               • Not allowed in detached structures or newly constructed standalone units.
        3. Single-Family Occupancy
               • Limited to one family.
        4. Single Kitchen
               • Only one kitchen is permitted.
        5. No Additional Accessory Living Spaces
               • No detached living quarters, casitas, or other secondary residential units are allowed in
                    addition to the suite.
        6. Size Limitation
               • Must be subordinate to the principal use and no larger than 1,200 sq. ft.
        7. Architectural Compatibility
               • The space must be fully integrated with and visually consistent with the existing building.
        8. Occupancy Requirement
               • Occupied only by an employee (or subcontractor) of the entity operating the principal use
                    and their immediate family.
               • Employee must work at least 50% time for the business.
               • Proof of compliance must be provided upon request.
        9. Construction and Safety Standards
               • A building permit is required.
               • Construction must comply with all applicable building, fire, life-safety, egress, and mechanical
                    codes.
               • The suite may not be occupied until passing all inspections and receiving a Certificate of
                    Occupancy.
               • Manufactured dwelling units are not permitted as employee suites.

Policy Considerations
The proposed text amendment would:
    • Provide flexibility for businesses with operational or emergency-response needs.
    • Allow limited residential occupancy in commercial zones while preventing impacts associated with full
        residential conversion.
    • Ensure all suites meet strict building and fire safety standards.
    • Maintain the commercial character of the zones through size limits, occupancy restrictions, and
        architectural integration.

Recommendation
Staff recommend that the Planning Commission review the proposed draft text amendment, provide feedback, and
direct staff to prepare a formal ordinance for a future public hearing.
As part of this discussion, the Planning Commission may also wish to consider the following policy questions:

    •   Whether the use should be restricted to certain zoning districts.
    •   Whether the use should be limited based on the type of principal land use operating on the site.
    •   Whether occupancy should be limited strictly to the employed individual or may include their immediate
        family.
    •   Whether a separate business license should be required for the employee suite.
    •   Whether the occupant should be required to be a full-time employee.
    •   Whether additional or dedicated parking should be required, including consideration of secure or
        designated parking spaces.
    •   Whether access to the suite must be internal to the principal structure.
    •   Whether the use should be permitted as a conditional or a permitted use.
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
TOMORROW
WATER USE & PRESERVATION ELEMENT – 2025
2   This page intentionally left blank
WATER USE &
PRESERVATION
                                                        Utah is one of the driest states in the nation. This reality, coupled with years
                                                        of severe drought and rapid population growth, has made the preservation
      MISSION STATEMENT                                 of water resources a high priority for Utah’s local governments, state leaders,
                                                        water providers, and the public. Recognizing planning’s critical role in water
Our mission is to safeguard Cottonwood Heights’
                                                        management, the state adopted S.B. 110: Water as Part of the General Plan
interests in a secure and resilient water future by
                                                        in 2022. This new mandate requires Cottonwood Heights to address the
responsibly exercising the City’s authority over land
                                                        impacts of land use planning on water use, aiming towards a future in which
use and development policy. We are committed
                                                        growth and development is supported by an adequate water supply.
to protecting the vital regional watershed and
empowering our residents and businesses to make         It is important to note that Cottonwood Heights does not currently
informed, water-wise choices that reduce overall        provide culinary or secondary water services to residents and does not
demand. Through sound planning and strong               control water supply or distribution planning. Instead, the City exercises
partnerships, we aim to ensure that community           its authority over water use primarily through land use decisions. Using
development remains manageable and is supported         tools such as the General Plan, zoning regulations, landscape standards, and
by available resources, promoting a culture of          the development review process, Cottonwood Heights can influence how
voluntary conservation and stewardship.                 water is used across the community to ensure growth is manageable and
                                                        supported by available resources.


                                                                               DRAFT WATER USE & PRESERVATION ELEMENT                      3
    Existing Conditions                                                                        A NOTE ON WATERSHED
                                                                                               HEALTH

    REGIONAL WATERSHEDS                                                                        A healthy watershed is essential to quality
                                                                                               of life, public health, water quality, and
                                                                                               long-term economic stability. Thoughtful
    The Jordan River Basin (Map 6.1), encompassing most of Salt Lake County, is                watershed planning helps manage the effects
    Utah’s most populous basin. The use of the basin’s water resources has been                of development through practical measures
    fundamental to the region’s development, providing its residents with diverse              such as identifying sensitive areas, controlling
    employment and recreational opportunities, and enabling a high quality of life.            stormwater runoff, setting stream buffer
                                                                                               standards, and encouraging cooperation among
    The watersheds that feed the Jordan River are critically important as a drinking
                                                                                               neighboring communities.
    water source for the County. These drainage basins, all located within Salt Lake
    County, contribute surface waters that either flow directly into the Great Salt Lake       Big and Little Cottonwood Creeks, which run
    or recharge the basin’s groundwater. As one of the many communities relying on             through the City, are important parts of the
    these resources, Cottonwood Heights recognizes the importance of protecting the            Jordan River Basin. Protecting these waterways
    watershed to help maintain reliable, clean water for current and future residents.         and their surrounding landscapes is critical to
                                                                                               preserving the health of the region—including
                                                                                               the Great Salt Lake. These efforts also contribute
    Map 6.1 – Regional Watersheds
                                                                                               to better air quality, outdoor recreation
                                                      Bear River
                                                                                               opportunities, and the overall integrity of both
                                                        Basin                                  natural areas and developed neighborhoods.


                             Great
                              Salt
                             Lake
                                                                           Weber
                                                                           Basin
                                                      Cottonwood Heights




                     West Desert
                       Basin

                                             Jordan
                                              River
                                              Basin
                                                                                   Utah Lake
                                                                                     Basin




4   DRAFT WATER USE & PRESERVATION ELEMENT
REGIONAL WATER CONSERVATION GOALS
Utah’s Regional Municipal & Industrial          For these reasons, it is recommended that Cottonwood Heights align municipal water use
Water Conservation Goals Report (2019)          reduction goals with those established by the Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities
establishes recommended regional water          (SLCDPU). At the time of this plan, SLCDPU’s 2025 Water Conservation Plan was in the final
reduction targets for the entire state. The     stages of adoption and included the goal to reduce current per capita water use from
primary goal for the Salt Lake Region, which    approximately 179 gpcd (Figure 6.1) to 174 gpcd by 2030, with further reductions to 164
encompasses Cottonwood Heights, is an           gpcd by 2040 and 146 gpcd in the long term. According to SLCDPU’s planning efforts, these
11% reduction in overall per capita water       targets help maintain reliable water supplies and support responsible water management to
use (gpcd) by 2030.                             meet future needs amid evolving challenges such as growth pressure and drought.

The Salt Lake City Department of Public         The City’s water conservation efforts will directly support both the regional goals established
Utilities (SLCDPU), the primary water           by the state and the more specific targets set forth by SLCDPU. The water use reduction
provider for Cottonwood Heights, has            goals shown in Figure 6.2 reflect those established by SLCDPU in its draft 2025 Water
established conservation targets that           Conservation Plan.1 Cottonwood Height’s contribution to a secure water future will be
exceed the state’s goal and are tailored to     explored further in the chapter.
the local service area and regional supply
reliability.                                    1         Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities. (2025). Draft 2025 Water Conservation Plan. Salt Lake City, UT. Retrieved
                                                from https://www.slcdocs.com/utilities/PDF%20Files/Conservation/Draft%202025%20SLC%20Water%20Conservation%20Plan.pdf




Figure 6.1 – Estimated Current Per Capita Use    Figure 6.2 – SLCDPU Recommended Interim Conservation Goals

                  ≈ 10 gallons                                             250
                                                   Per Capita Use (gpcd)




                                                                           200
                                                                                        -2.9%
                                                                                 179                              -8.4%
                                                                                                       174                                  -18.7
                                                                                                                                                    %
                                                                           150                                                   166
                                                                                                                                                            146


              179 gpcd                                                     100
      gallons per capita per day                                                 2024               5-year                    10-year                 Long-Term
                (2024)
                                                                                                      DRAFT WATER USE & PRESERVATION ELEMENT                                         5
    LOCAL WATER                                   Map 6.2 – Water Provider Service Areas (approximate)


    SYSTEMS
    As stated, Cottonwood Heights does
    not currently provide culinary or
    secondary water services to residents
    and instead relies on the Salt Lake City
    Department of Public Utilities (SLCDPU)
    for its drinking water supply, with a
    smaller portion of the City served by the
    Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District
    (JVWCD). Because secondary water is not
    currently available, culinary water is used
    for outdoor irrigation, including lawns and
    other landscaping. In compliance with S.B.
    110, the City met with both water utilities
    to discuss long-term water supply and
    distribution planning.

    Conversations with the water
    providers focused on key aspects of
    their conservation plans relevant to
    Cottonwood Heights. Topics included
    available data on current water use and
    future demand, initiatives to support
    the Great Salt Lake, and recommended
    goals, policies, or programs the City might
    adopt to strengthen water conservation.
    A summary of the main takeaways from
    these discussions follows.                            SLCDPU
                                                           JVWCD


6   DRAFT WATER USE & PRESERVATION ELEMENT
SALT LAKE CITY DEPARTMENT OF                                           JORDAN VALLEY WATER
PUBLIC UTILITIES (SLCDPU)                                              CONSERVANCY DISTRICT (JVWCD)
Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities (SLCDPU) is the retail   Based on the number of Cottonwood Heights address points within
water provider for all of Salt Lake City and portions of Millcreek,    its service area, JVWCD provides drinking water to approximately
Cottonwood Heights, Holladay, Murray, Midvale, and South Salt          10% of the City. Of those addresses, 47% are residential and 44%
Lake. Within Cottonwood Heights, SLCDPU supplies water to              are commercial. The Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District
approximately 90% of address points. Based on address types,           (JVWCD) serves a large portion of Union Park Regional Center
the majority of water use is residential (about 89%), followed by      and a smaller area south of Creek Road near Oakdale Elementary.
commercial use at roughly 6%.                                          Given that the service area includes the Regional Center, the high
                                                                       proportion of commercial addresses is expected.
TAKEAWAYS FROM SLCDPU
                                                                       TAKEAWAYS FROM JVWCD
 Shared Conservation Leadership: SLCDPU’s Water
  Conservation Manager also serves, by extension, as Cottonwood         Potential Service Transfer: The area currently served by
  Heights’ Water Conservation Manager. This presents a strong            JVWCD may be transferred to Salt Lake City Public Utilities in the
  opportunity for partnership, particularly around program               future. This would standardize water provision across the City
  promotion and public outreach. The current manager brings              but could result in higher water rates due to SLCDPU’s pricing
  valuable marketing and communication strategies to the table.          structure.

 Desire for Formalized Communication: The Water                        Updated Water Efficiency Standards: JVWCD emphasized
  Conservation Manager expressed a desire to formalize                   the importance of strong water efficiency standards for
  communication between SLCDPU and Cottonwood Heights                    conservation. They plan to update their recommended
  to strengthen collaboration. They emphasized the importance            standards, including revised turf limits for commercial
  of direct engagement and mutual support between cities and             properties, and encourage cities to adopt them when available.
  SLCDPU, noting that layers of hierarchy can sometimes make
                                                                        Enforceable Requirements: Although the area served by
  coordination more difficult.
                                                                         JVWCD appears to be largely built-out, the District is able to
 Upcoming Conservation Plan Update: SLCDPU is in the                    enforce water efficiency standards by requiring landscaping
  process of updating its Water Conservation Plan (2020). Once           to meet specific criteria before approving any new water
  adopted, the updated plan—anticipated in December 2025—                connections.1
  will serve as a valuable resource for Cottonwood Heights and
  the other municipalities served by SLCDPU.                           1          Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District. Rules and Regulations for Retail Water
                                                                       Service. Revised effective June 7, 2023. Retrieved from https://jvwcd.gov/file/7812e3bb-8083-
                                                                       491f-a4b7-cacae6e94d35/00---Rules-and-Regulations-for-Retail-Water-Service-Revised-6-7-23.
                                                                       pdf




                                                                                      DRAFT CHAPTER 6: WATER USE & PRESERVATION                                        7
                          TAKEAWAYS FROM JVWCD (CONTINUED)

                           JVWCD as a Resource: While JVWCD supplies           Focus on Existing Development: Given
                            water to only a small portion of Cottonwood          the City’s mostly built-out status, JVWCD
                            Heights, it remains a valuable resource and          recommended focusing on water conservation
                            partner in promoting water efficiency through        efforts for existing properties. Suggestions
                            its standards, conservation programs, and            include:
                            public education initiatives. Some of the
                            key programs and services JVWCD offers to             •   Making it easier for residents to replace turf
                            support water conservation efforts include:               with water-wise landscaping.

                                                                                  •   Providing additional local funding for
                             •   Utah Water Savers Incentive Program:
                                                                                      landscape conversion incentives (e.g., a
                                 Offers rebates for turf removal, water-
                                                                                      match that increases rebate amounts per
                                 efficient landscaping, and high-efficiency
                                                                                      square foot).
                                 toilet replacements for residents and
                                 businesses.                                      •   Promoting landscape education, including
                                                                                      contractor certifications, Localscapes
                             •   Conservation Garden Park: A demonstration
                                                                                      classes, and resources like Qualified Water
                                 garden providing free classes and resources
                                                                                      Efficient Landscaper (QWEL) Training. The
                                 on drought-tolerant landscaping and
                                                                                      City’s advocacy efforts can support this
                                 water-wise irrigation.
                                                                                      outreach.
                             •   Slow the Flow Campaign: An ongoing
                                                                               CONCLUSION
                                 public outreach effort to educate the
                                 community on practical water-saving           Even though Cottonwood Heights does not
                                 actions.                                      operate its own water utility, the City plays a
                                                                               powerful role in shaping local water use through
                             •   Qualified Water Efficient Landscaper
                                                                               the tools it does control—particularly in land
                                 (QWEL) Training: Certification programs for
                                                                               use planning and policy. The City’s General Plan,
                                 landscapers to promote sustainable water
                                                                               zoning code, and development standards establish
                                 management practices.
                                                                               the physical layout of the community and directly
                             •   Member Agency Assistance Program:             influence how much water is needed now and in
                                 Grants and technical support for local        the future.
                                 agencies to implement water conservation
                                 projects and education initiatives.


8   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS GENERAL PLAN DRAFT
Land Use & Water
SHAPING WATER USE & DEMAND
Water demand is intrinsically linked to land use. Cottonwood Heights consists mainly of residential neighborhoods, with commercial
development concentrated along major corridors. Areas with larger lots and lawns tend to use more water than areas with smaller lots and
limited irrigation. While commercial areas generally consume less water per acre than residential neighborhoods, water-intensive uses like
restaurants, car washes, and properties with water-intensive landscaping can drive up demand. With little undeveloped land remaining,
Cottonwood Heights is transitioning to infill and redevelopment—a shift that can promote more efficient water use when guided by smart
growth and water-conscious planning, as discussed on subsequent pages.




Water-conscious land use inspirational imagery.


                                                                                   DRAFT CHAPTER 6: WATER USE & PRESERVATION                 9
     A SECURE WATER FUTURE
     Through proactive planning, Cottonwood Heights aims for a future characterized by vibrant Activity Centers, along with thoughtful infill
     and redevelopment, ensuring the preservation of its natural beauty and the quality of its neighborhoods. As the City is now built out, future
     development will focus on establishing vibrant, mixed-use Activity Centers such as the Town Center and Gravel Pit area, which offer diverse
     commercial, retail, and cultural services. This strategic vision will strengthen the local economy while ensuring that land use patterns continue
     to support a secure water future.

     FUTURE FORECAST
     As described, the Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities             Ongoing coordination between Cottonwood Heights and SLCDPU
     (SLCDPU) in its 2025 Draft Water Conservation Plan, reports a               will be critical to achieving regional water reliability. As SLCDPU
     current system-wide average water use of approximately 179 gpcd             finalizes its updated conservation plan, the City should rely on
     (Figure 6.1). As a contract water customer without a secondary              SLCDPU for refined demand projections, updated per capita
     irrigation system, Cottonwood Heights relies solely on culinary             use data, and guidance on system-wide conservation targets.
     water for outdoor irrigation, likely placing its per capita use at or       By integrating this information into local policies, especially
     above this average.                                                         those related to land use, landscaping standards, water-efficient
                                                                                 development, and outreach and education, Cottonwood Heights
     Cottonwood Heights’ population is projected to grow from 33,594
                                                                                 can align with SLCDPU’s goals and contribute meaningfully to
     residents in 2024 to 41,878 by 2050, an increase of 8,284 residents.
                                                                                 regional water conservation efforts.
     If per capita use remains at the current level of 179 gpcd, total
     annual demand would rise from approximately 6,736 acre-feet
     (acft) in 2024 to about 8,397 acft by 2050—an increase of roughly              Figure 6.3 – Cottonwood Heights Water Use Trajectory
     1,661 acft. However, if the City supports SLCDPU’s long-term goal                      9,000
     of reducing per capita use to 146 gpcd by 2050, total demand could
     be limited to approximately 6,849 acft, nearly maintaining current
                                                                                Acre-Feet
                                                                                            8,000                                         ctory
     consumption despite growth (Figure 6.3). Although Cottonwood                                                               cd   traje
                                                                                                                         179 gp
     Heights does not directly manage water services or supply planning,                                                      146 gpcd target
                                                                                            7,000
     its authority over land use decisions and public education plays
     a crucial role in shaping community water use. The two demand
                                                                                            6,000
     trajectories clearly illustrate how local policies and education efforts                         2024                                              2050
     that enhance water use efficiency can significantly moderate future                        (33,594 residents)                                (41,878 residents)
     demand.
                                                                                    Note: An acre-foot is enough water to cover an acre of land in one foot of water
                                                                                    (approximately 325,851 gallons).


10   DRAFT WATER USE & PRESERVATION ELEMENT
Reducing Water Waste
To support projected growth and manage water demand, Cottonwood Heights can encourage water-saving practices through its planning,
zoning, and regulatory tools—always respecting private property rights. Given that about 70% of municipal water is used residentially,
and nearly 60% of that goes to outdoor irrigation, even small improvements in water efficiency can have a big impact.1 By setting clear,
reasonable water efficiency standards, promoting smart growth, and empowering residents with education and resources, the City can
help reduce water use across all land uses. The following section outlines current and recommended conservation policies and practices for
Cottonwood Heights.



CONSERVATION POLICIES & PRACTICES
OUTDOOR & INDOOR STANDARDS
Water-efficient landscaping standards play a key role in conserving                                     Complementing outdoor efforts, modern appliances and plumbing
water, enhancing neighborhood character, and supporting long-                                           fixtures are significantly more efficient than older models, making
term sustainability. Cottonwood Heights encourages water-efficient                                      upgrades to high-efficiency toilets, faucets, and showerheads
landscaping citywide through ordinances that emphasize drought-                                         among the most cost-effective water conservation strategies. In
tolerant plants, smart irrigation practices, and Localscapes design                                     addition to reducing water use per fixture, newer technologies
principles. Lawn is prohibited in park strips and discouraged on                                        also help minimize leaks. Local landscaping and building codes
steep slopes and in narrow spaces, while inefficient practices like                                     can support conservation by requiring efficient fixtures, water
overspray and runoff are strongly discouraged. These standards                                          reuse systems, smart meters, submetering, rain sensors, automatic
apply primarily to new development but are also encouraged during                                       shutoffs, programmable irrigation, drip systems, water harvesting,
major remodels or changes of use. Importantly, these standards are                                      and limits on outdoor plumbing connections. When combined
designed to remove barriers for residents who wish to implement                                         with restrictions on irrigated landscaping and requirements for
more water-efficient landscapes, including xeriscaping and other                                        efficient irrigation systems, these measures can lead to substantial
drought-tolerant practices that are sometimes prohibited by code                                        reductions in water use.
elsewhere. Maintaining clear requirements and providing guidance
for retrofitting existing landscapes will help the City manage growth
responsibly while reducing long-term water demand.

1         Cottam, M., Becker, K., Stemmler, K., Poudyal, S., Crump, W., Kogan, L., & Hotaling, S. (2025, August 25). Reducing residential landscape water use in Utah: Technologies and strategies. Utah
State University Extension. Retrieved from https://extension.usu.edu/climate/research/reducing-residential-landscape-water-use-in-utah-technologies-and-strategies


                                                                                                                           DRAFT WATER USE & PRESERVATION ELEMENT                                          11
     EDUCATION & OUTREACH                                                     PARTNERSHIPS & PROGRAMS
     The support and participation of community members and local             In 2019, the cities of Cottonwood Heights, Holladay, and Millcreek
     organizations is essential to any successful water conservation          signed an interlocal agreement to collaborate on sustainability
     strategy. As a city that values private property rights and individual   initiatives. This partnership led to the adoption of the Interlocal
     decision-making, Cottonwood Heights places its greatest emphasis         Sustainability Action Plan (ISAP) in 2021, which now serves
     on education, outreach, and voluntary participation—giving               as Cottonwood Heights’ sustainability master plan. Water
     residents the tools and information they need to make their own          use is addressed throughout the ISAP, particularly within the
     water-wise choices. Current efforts and future opportunities include:    Development, Landscaping, and Waste Management sections.

      Utah Water Savers incentives and rebate programs for residents         In addition to regional collaboration, Cottonwood Heights supports
       (Figure 6.4).                                                          water conservation through participation in state-led programs.
                                                                              Thanks to Cottonwood Heights’ water-efficient landscaping
      Distribution of subsidized rain barrels for residents in association
                                                                              ordinance, residents are eligible to participate in Utah Water Savers
       with Utah Rivers Council. SLCDPU offers a similar program to
                                                                              programs. Participation data for these programs is provided in
       customers.
                                                                              Figure 6.4.
      Annual water-wise landscaping workshops in partnership with
       the Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities (SLCDPU) and
                                                                              Figure 6.4 – Utah Water Savers Program Participation
       Jordan Valley Water Conservation District (JVWCD).

      Support for resident tree planting efforts to provide shade,
       reduce ambient heat and prevent water loss.

      Completion of the Mountview Park Pollinator Garden, which
       demonstrates water-wise landscape and irrigation design ideas                        484                                                 217
       and integrates these practices into City projects.                     Smart Controller Rebate                           Turf Conversion Rebate
                                                                                    (since 2018)                                      (since 2021)
      Inclusion of the “Water Tip of the Month” in the City newsletter.                                              141
                                                                                                               Toilet Rebate
      Annual reports highlighting community participation in water                                             (since 2019)
       conservation programs.
                                                                              Cottonwood Heights program participation figures, based on the most recent data available from
                                                                              Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District. Participation numbers may vary due to differences in
     Through these initiatives, Cottonwood Heights can empower                program reporting cycles.
     residents and businesses with practical information, examples, and
     incentives—allowing voluntary, informed choices to drive long-term
     water stewardship.

12   DRAFT WATER USE & PRESERVATION ELEMENT
WATER-SMART GROWTH                                                   GROWING WATER-SMART: 3 BEST
                                                                     PRACTICES
While efficient fixtures and water-wise landscaping are
essential for conservation, land development patterns also           1. SUPPORT WATER CONSERVATION THROUGH MORE
have a significant impact on overall water use. Because these        EFFICIENT DEVELOPMENT PATTERNS
patterns are difficult to change once established, it is important
that Cottonwood Heights apply smart-growth principles                 Where appropriate, encourage compact, infill, smaller lots,
especially to new commercial, industrial, institutional, and           and mixed-use development to reduce water demand and
multifamily development, where the greatest opportunities for          increase infrastructure efficiency.
long-term efficiency exist.
                                                                      Consider refining local policies or development standards
Smart growth principles, including compact development,                to better support—and when necessary, require—these more
infill, and infrastructure efficiency, directly support water          water-efficient patterns.
conservation. More compact developments require shorter
transmission systems, which are less prone to leaks and more         2. INTEGRATE WATER-WISE PRACTICES INTO PLANNING
efficient to operate. Smaller lots reduce the amount of irrigated    TOOLS
landscaping, helping to lower outdoor water demand.
                                                                      Use zoning, municipal code, and land development
Implementing smart growth requires comprehensive zoning,               standards to embed water conservation principles into the built
municipal code, and land development standards. These                  environment.
tools enable the City to establish water-wise expectations
at the time of construction, such as water-wise landscaping           Educate residents and developers about the benefits of
and efficient irrigation practices. Beyond initial construction,       efficient indoor fixtures, smart irrigation systems, and
ongoing conservation goals can be reinforced by landscape              practical lawn areas to encourage their adoption during site
maintenance guidelines, retrofit incentive programs, and               planning and construction.
education and outreach.
                                                                     3. REINFORCE CONSERVATION POST-OCCUPANCY

                                                                      Share landscape maintenance guidelines or educational
                                                                       resources to ensure long-term water efficiency.

                                                                      Promote third party retrofit incentive programs to encourage
                                                                       upgrades in existing developments.




                                                                                 DRAFT WATER USE & PRESERVATION ELEMENT               13
     Water Use & Preservation Goals
     GOAL 1: EMPOWER THE COMMUNITY THROUGH EDUCATION, OUTREACH, AND VOLUNTARY
     WATER CONSERVATION
     SHORT-TERM STRATEGIES (1-2 YEARS)                                   MID-TERM STRATEGIES (3–5 YEARS):

      Promote existing rebate and incentive programs, such as Utah       Continue and expand partnership-based water-wise landscaping
       Water Savers and subsidized rain barrel distributions, through      workshops in collaboration with SLCDPU and JVWCD.
       City communication channels.
                                                                          Explore opportunities to partner with SLCDPU and JVWCD to
      Feature regular “Water Tip of the Month” content in City            provide water-wise education and training for City staff and
       newsletters, social media, and public signage to provide            Public Works personnel, including contractor certifications,
       practical, actionable conservation advice.                          Localscapes classes, and resources like QWEL.net.

      Use City newsletters, workshops, and outreach programs to
                                                                         LONG-TERM STRATEGIES (5+ YEARS):
       share ongoing water conservation efforts and encourage
       voluntary actions among residents.                                 Develop a suite of user-friendly digital platforms and interactive
                                                                           tools that empower residents to make informed water-wise
      Support and promote resident-led initiatives like tree planting
                                                                           decisions, such as a monthly water use and preservation
       and pollinator gardens that exemplify water-wise landscaping
                                                                           newsletter, printable guides and checklists, social media
       principles.
                                                                           campaigns, virtual workshops, water-use calculators, etc.
      Develop and publish annual reports highlighting community
                                                                          Foster a culture of water stewardship through community
       participation in water conservation programs to raise awareness
                                                                           recognition programs, awards, or friendly competitions that
       and celebrate successes.
                                                                           celebrate and incentivize efficient water use.
      Expand outreach by collaborating with a broader range of local
       organizations to reach diverse and under-served community
       members.




14   DRAFT WATER USE & PRESERVATION ELEMENT
Water Use & Preservation Goals
GOAL 2: LEAD BY EXAMPLE IN WATER                                       GOAL 3: STRENGTHEN COLLABORATIVE
EFFICIENCY AND COMMUNITY STEWARDSHIP                                   EFFORTS AND PROMOTE FAIR WATER
                                                                       MANAGEMENT
SHORT-TERM STRATEGIES (1–2 YEARS):
                                                                       SHORT-TERM STRATEGIES (2-5 YEARS)
 Review progress and measurable outcomes from the Interlocal
  Sustainability Action Plan to guide City water stewardship            Establish structured communication processes with SLCDPU,
  initiatives.                                                           such as regular coordination meetings or a liaison role, to
                                                                         enhance shared planning and responsiveness.
 Integrate educational signage in public spaces such as parks,
  trailheads, and City Hall to promote awareness of water-saving        Partner with SLCDPU to co-host water conservation workshops,
  practices.                                                             community events, and outreach campaigns leveraging utility
                                                                         expertise and resources.
MID-TERM STRATEGIES (3–5 YEARS):
                                                                        Engage in open and transparent dialogue about water pricing
 Encourage the adoption of water-efficient design standards             and issues of fairness and affordability to better understand and
  for new or renovated City-led development projects wherever            address resident concerns, recognizing that pricing authority lies
  feasible.                                                              with the utility.


LONG-TERM STRATEGIES (5+ YEARS):                                       LONG-TERM STRATEGIES (5+ YEARS)

 Retrofit City facilities and parks with smart irrigation systems,     Collaborate with SLCDPU to identify shared water conservation
  low-flow fixtures, and drought-tolerant landscaping as budgets         goals grounded in the updated Water Conservation Plan (2025),
  and staff capacity allow.                                              ensuring alignment of City initiatives with utility-led efforts.

 Use the Town Center and Activity Centers as visible, inspirational    Coordinate with Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities to
  examples of water-wise design and green infrastructure.                obtain water usage data specific to Cottonwood Heights.

 Work with SLCDPU and JVWCD to provide regular, transparent
  updates on water conservation progress to maintain community
  engagement and trust.


                                                                                   DRAFT WATER USE & PRESERVATION ELEMENT                   15
     Water Use & Preservation Goals
     GOAL 4: INTEGRATE WATER CONSERVATION INTO THE LAND DEVELOPMENT AND
     REDEVELOPMENT PROCESS.
     SHORT-TERM STRATEGIES (2-5 YEARS)

      Review and update land development standards to incorporate
       water-efficient practices and policies.

      Review and remove barriers to water conservation (such as
       unnecessary or conflicting regulations, complex procedures, and
       overlapping or ineffective incentives) to ensure clear, consistent
       standards that encourage effective water-saving practices.


     LONG-TERM STRATEGIES (5+ YEARS)

      Actively promote and incentivize infill development to optimize
       existing infrastructure.

      Plan for and incorporate green infrastructure solutions
       (e.g., permeable surfaces, rain gardens, bioswales) within
       development projects to manage stormwater, recharge
       groundwater, improve water quality by filtering runoff, and
       reduce reliance on potable water for irrigation.




16   DRAFT WATER USE & PRESERVATION ELEMENT
                  MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
                    PLANNING COMMISSION WORK MEETING

                                Wednesday, November 5, 2025
                                          5:00 p.m.
                                 2277 East Bengal Boulevard
                                   City Council Chambers

ATTENDANCE

Members Present:      Chair Sean Steinman, Commissioner Mike Shelton, Commissioner Dan
                      Poulson, Commissioner Lucy Anderson, Commissioner Dan Mills,
                      Commissioner Garry Barnes, Commissioner Rusty Lugo - Alternate

Staff Present:        Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; Deputy City
                      Recorder, Cienna Brummel; Planner III, Maverick Yeh; Systems
                      Administrator, Alex Earl; Planner I, Emma Glende; Planner III, Sheldon
                      Howa

WORK SESSION

Chair Sean Steinman called the Planning Commission Work Session to order at 5:01 p.m. He took
a moment to thank Commissioner Lucy Anderson for her time serving in the Chair position.

1.0    Review Business Session Agenda.

Chair Steinman reviewed the Business Session agenda. He reported that the first item on the
agenda is Project ZTA-25-004, and the second item on the agenda is Project Second Driveway
Exception. The Planning Commission will also approve the Meeting Minutes from October 1,
2025.

Planner I, Emma Glende, shared information about Project ZTA 25-004. She explained that this
is a City-initiated Zoning Text Amendment to update Chapter 8.13 of the City Code. Currently,
the chicken coop setback is 40 feet from neighboring dwellings and there are no enforcement
provisions within the code. The proposal is to reduce the required setback for chicken coops to 25
feet from neighboring dwellings. There is also a proposal for an enforcement provision that would
allow Code Enforcement to revoke chicken-keeping permits after three ordinance violations.

Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung, shared background information
with the Commission. In August, someone came to the City Council as part of the public comment
period and spoke about the chicken coop standards. The Mayor and Council instructed Staff to
look at the ordinance, look at what is being done elsewhere, and then come back with suggestions.

Ms. Glende reported that the City has received inquiries from homeowners interested in owning
chickens. However, some yards are not large enough for the 40-foot setback. She contacted the
Salt Lake County Health Department, which informed her that the most common setbacks range


Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 11/05/25                                       1
from 25 feet to 35 feet from neighboring dwellings. The Salt Lake County Health Department
stated that reducing setbacks to 25 feet would still be appropriate from a health standpoint. This
shift would allow more residents to keep chickens on their properties. Code Enforcement
requested an enforcement provision in the language to ensure all other requirements are followed.

Commissioner Anderson asked about the other ordinances associated with chickens. Ms. Glende
explained that the maximum amount is six chickens, and there cannot be roosters. There are also
requirements related to sanitation. Commissioner Anderson wanted to know if there are
requirements for the size of the chicken coop. Ms. Glende confirmed this. As for the setbacks,
the side and rear setbacks must be met in the same way as an accessory building. Commissioner
Anderson asked about the current Code Enforcement limitations. Ms. Glende reported that there
is nothing written down at this time that makes it possible to enforce the various requirements.

Ms. Glende informed the Commission that there are approximately 15 households in the City that
currently have chickens. Chair Steinman asked if those 15 households are permitted, which was
confirmed. Planner III, Maverick Yeh, reported that a permit is needed to have chickens on a
property. An inspection needs to be passed each year to show that the requirements have been
met. Commissioner Garry Barnes noted that there are no roosters allowed, which was confirmed.

Commissioner Shelton wondered if there are other situations where a setback is measured to a
neighboring dwelling. Ms. Glende is not aware of any others. Staff looked at six cities in the Salt
Lake Valley to see how chickens were handled there. All of those cities measured from
neighboring dwellings as well. Chair Steinman asked what would happen if someone built a
chicken coop and then another neighbor wanted to build a shed. He wanted to understand whether
a neighbor would be unable to build a shed because of the location of the coop. Ms. Glende
reported that the language mentions a dwelling, so a shed would not be a problem. An accessory
dwelling unit (“ADU”) would be more complicated. ADUs are required to be 20 feet away from
neighboring property lines. Mr. Spung shared an example scenario with the Commission.

Commissioner Barnes asked if the chicken coop is defined by the wire cage or the enclosed
structure. He pointed out that chickens are generally put into a structure are night, but there is also
a fenced-off area outside of that structure. Mr. Spung believed the measurement would be from
the actual structure. There have been discussions about different scenarios, but he noted that a lot
is context-based. It is difficult to have a one-size-fits-all approach. He is not a fan of standards
that are dependent upon what a neighbor does or does not do, because there is no control over that.

Commissioner Mills agreed with the comments from Mr. Spung and noted that some people want
to place everything on the edges of the yard. This has been seen with sheds and ADUs. He wants
to make sure there is enough space from the property line to the chicken coop, regardless of what
is on the other side of the fence. Commissioner Anderson asked why the proposal is from the
dwelling as opposed to the property line. Ms. Glende explained that it is required to be three feet
from the property line already, similar to an accessory building. The Salt Lake County Health
Department mentioned 25 feet, as that seems to be the minimum to address odor and noise.

Mr. Spung noted that the language can be updated to state that all enclosures, pens, and coops shall
be located at least 25 feet from all dwellings on adjoining properties and at least three feet from



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 11/05/25                                            2
the property line, or whichever distance is greater. Right now, the language states that it has to be
25 feet and at least three feet from the property line. There was discussion about the proposed
language.

Chair Steinman asked what considerations were looked at as far as heating elements and electricity
to the structures. Ms. Glende stated that there was no additional review conducted. The current
language was read. Chair Steinman wanted to know if additional permits are required when there
is electrical work. Ms. Glende reported that a Building Permit would be needed for electrical.
Mr. Spung explained that with chicken coops, people normally have an extension cord with a heat
lamp. In that scenario, there would not be a permanent utility, so a permit would not be needed.
However, if there was a permanent utility in place, then a permit would be needed for the use.

Commissioner Anderson asked to further discuss the language related to the 25 feet. She wondered
whether the requirement should be 10 feet from the property line or 25 feet from the dwelling,
whichever is more. It might make sense to increase the setback from the property line to three
feet. Chair Steinman reported that Millcreek requires 25 feet from a structure and 10 feet from the
property line. Sandy has a 25-foot and a 20-foot requirement. Holladay is 40 feet and five feet.
South Jordan has 25 feet and 10 feet. There is precedent to increase the amount from three feet to
10 feet. Commissioner Anderson thought 10 feet from the property line made the most sense.

Ms. Glende asked if current chicken coops that are less than 10 feet would be grandfathered in.
Commissioners believed that would be appropriate. Ms. Glende explained that she is trying to
determine how Code Enforcement would know whether something has been grandfathered in.
Discussions were had about the inspection that takes place during the current permit process.
Ms. Glende reported that Code Enforcement inspects the chicken coop each year to make sure
there are six or fewer chickens and that the area is maintained and sanitary. Mr. Yeh shared
additional information about the permit process and the site visit that takes place on an annual
basis.

Chair Steinman suggested that the proposed language be changed to 10 feet instead of three feet.
He believes this would address a lot of the Commission's concerns. Commissioner Shelton asked
how far away the chicken coop would need to be from the main dwelling. Ms. Glende reported
that it would be 10 feet if there was a heating device. 6 feet is normally required for accessory
buildings. Commissioner Shelton pointed out that the intention is to make this use possible for
more residents. Chair Steinman noted that most properties in the R-1-8 Zone would be able to
have a chicken coop.

Commissioner Mills suggested that there be education provided to let residents know what the
steps are in this process. For example, if there is going to be electrical work, then there are
additional steps required. There could be information shared on social media and on the City
website. Having this information accessible and available will encourage residents to go through
the process. He expressed support for the Code Enforcement language so there can be regulation.

Mr. Spung suggested that the enforcement section be reviewed by the Planning Commission.
Ms. Glende reported that the enforcement section states the City may investigate any alleged
violation of the chapter upon receipt of a complaint. A violation shall be considered verified and



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 11/05/25                                          3
confirmed by City Staff through inspection or other credible evidence. If a property receives three
or more verified violations within a 12-month period, the chicken-keeping permit can be revoked
following written notice to the permit holder. Upon revocation, the permit owner shall remove all
chickens from the property within 30 calendar days of the date of notice. A revoked permit shall
remain invalid for the remainder of the year, which is from July 1 to June 30 in the City. She
explained that a revoked permit holder may reapply for a new permit after one full year has passed
from the date of revocation. It states that there can be additional enforcement remedies pursued
as well.

Commissioner Shelton noted that the current language requires a complaint to be submitted. He
would not limit Code Enforcement to complaints. Commissioner Mills suggested language that
states “upon observation or receipt of a complaint.” Ms. Glende discussed the Staff findings. It
seems that the current Code is more restrictive than some neighboring cities. Reducing the
setbacks will allow residents with smaller lots to have the opportunity to have a chicken coop on
their property. In addition, the enforcement provision will allow the City to address non-
compliance.

Chair Steinman reported that there can be additional discussion during the Business Session. He
noted that it is possible to have a chicken coop in the side yard as well as the rear yard. He did not
see an issue with that as long as it is in compliance with the other requirements mentioned.

The Planning Commission discussed the second item on the agenda, Project Second Driveway
Exception. Ms. Glende reported that Nash Williams is the property owner at 3396 East Antler
Way and is requesting approval of a second driveway to serve the property. The homeowner is in
the process of applying for a lot line adjustment, which involves purchasing some property from
the neighboring lot to add to the existing lot. There are significant grading and elevation
differences between the two properties, which means extending the driveway from the existing
property to the purchased property is not feasible. As a result, the proposal is to add a second
driveway for access to the proposed garage that will be located on the additional property. Two
applicable code sections are: 14.12.110.B.1 – Driveway Approaches and 14.12.150 – Exceptions.

Section 14.12.110.B.1 – Driveway Approaches states: “Single-family dwelling shall be permitted
only one access unless a circular driveway approach is utilized.” However, later on in that section,
it states that in cases where unusual topographical or other exceptional circumstances exist,
variations or exceptions to the requirements may be approved by the City Council after a
recommendation from the Planning Commission. Ms. Glende shared an image of the property and
a copy of the Site Plan. The property outlined in red is an approximation of what the property
owner wants to purchase from the neighboring property. The blue indicates the second driveway.

Commissioner Shelton noted that there must be some access in the proposed area currently.
Ms. Glende explained that there is a desire to do a cut into the curb to create an official driveway
approach. Commissioner Dan Poulson asked if the hill would be removed. Ms. Glende reported
that there has been work done with engineers to determine what needs to be done in terms of the
grading. It sounds like the retaining walls will be rebuilt and the grading will be changed. The
Commission reviewed the submitted materials. Ms. Glende pointed out the neighboring property.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 11/05/25                                           4
Commissioner Mills noted that the uphill property is typically responsible for grading issues. This
application will require some nuance in terms of communication. He was concerned about the
adjacent property owners and the hazards associated with a grade change. It is important that there
be adequate communication so that there is no problem created through this application.
Mr. Spung reported that the retaining wall behind the trailer shown is an old railroad tie wall that
is failing. The applicant has not purchased the land yet, as there is a desire to ensure that a driveway
can be placed there before the lot line adjustment occurs. The applicant understands he is
purchasing the liability of the wall, but there are Geotechnical Engineers working to determine
how to address this matter. There are currently two existing retaining walls that are failing, in
addition to the ones that would be built. The applicant wants to make improvements for increased
safety.

Commissioner Mills noted that, based on the photograph shown, there appears to be more than a
30% slope. Mr. Spung reviewed the submitted materials and pointed out the existing retaining
walls. Chair Steinman asked if the retaining wall is in the purview of this application. Ms. Glende
clarified that this application is related to the driveway. There has been close work with the City
Engineers to ensure that the full geotechnical process is done. Commissioner Poulson asked about
the size of the purchased piece of land. Mr. Spung stated that the dashed lines shown indicate the
existing retaining walls. The proposed area for purchase is just over 7,000 square feet. Ms. Glende
informed the Commission that the applicant will be purchasing an adjacent portion. The intention
is to build a pool and a garage. There is a new driveway approach proposed on the expanded
parcel.

The property has unusual topography because of the significant grade change. As a result, it meets
the requirements that could allow the City Council to approve the second driveway approach.
Granting the second driveway would allow the property owner to better utilize their property
without negatively impacting public safety or welfare. In addition, there is adherence to the
Sensitive Lands Evaluation and Development Standards. Commissioner Anderson asked if this
was noticed, because there were no signs in the cul-de-sac. Ms. Glende confirmed that it was
noticed, as mailers were sent out. It was clarified that there is no requirement to post signs.

Commissioner Mills commented that the geotechnical seems to be the main hurdle. If the
geotechnical works, then the second driveway makes sense. That being said, there are some
concerns about the sequencing. It was noted that approval of the application could be dependent
on the other approvals. Mr. Spung reported that the applicant has spent close to $40,000 on
engineering. He does not want to continue to put money into this project if there cannot be a
driveway. Without a driveway, it does not make sense to purchase the additional property.
Discussions were had about the appropriate sequence. Commissioner Mills thought it made sense
to sequence this in a way that does not create difficulties for Staff as this moves forward.
Commissioner Anderson suggested that approval be conditional on Building Permit issuance.

Chair Steinman shared a potential scenario with the Commission. Commissioner Shelton reported
that the City Code does not allow for a second driveway without an exception. The only reason to
evaluate the proposed second driveway is because of the topographical differences when the lots
are combined. Commissioner Shelton asked where the neighboring home is compared to the




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 11/05/25                                             5
proposed driveway location. Ms. Glende reported that it is fairly close, but on a cul-de-sac, there
are no minimum distances needed between driveways. She shared the location on the Site Plan.

Mr. Spung did not have an issue with the approval being conditioned based on the issuance of a
Building Permit or a garage that would warrant the access. Commissioner Barnes does not see the
harm of the curb cut, regardless of whether the applicant decides to pursue other development.
Mr. Spung shared an aerial image and pointed out the existing driveway and the neighboring
driveway. He explained that the new driveway would be somewhere in the indicated area.

Chair Steinman asked what would happen if there was not a lot combination. For instance, whether
the applicant would be permitted to have a driveway for a singular lot. Commissioner Anderson
pointed out that the applicant could not build only a garage, as there would need to be a dwelling.
That is likely the reason the applicant wants to combine. The materials were further reviewed.

2.0    Review and Discussion of General Plan Update.

Chair Steinman reported that the next item on the Work Session agenda relates to the General Plan
update. Mr. Spung reported that there was an Economic Development Subcommittee Meeting
held earlier in the day, and there was a productive discussion. Chair Steinman, Commissioner
Anderson, and Commissioner Barnes were at that meeting, as well as some others. It was
meaningful to discuss the broader vision and narrow down some goals. There will likely need to
be another meeting. He asked if others have coordinated with their groups to determine meeting
times. Commissioner Mills stated that there is no a time finalized at this point, but it is close.

Mr. Spung explained that during the subcommittee meeting, there was discussion about the memo
that was sent out with the Vision Statement for the General Plan. He shared the memo with those
present. The subcommittee liked Example #2 more than Example #1, but noted that there is a need
to clarify what urban design actually means. He asked for feedback on the example language.
Commissioner Mills liked the language, but noted that it is slightly different than what was seen
before. He wants the Vision Statement to provide some clarity and expectations.

Commissioner Lugo liked the last sentence in Example #1, because it mentioned the residents. He
believes residents need to be mentioned in the last line of the second example, so it does not end
with a focus only on businesses and tourism. Commissioner Shelton pointed out that landowners
are not mentioned. The General Plan has to be sensitive to the fact that most of what there is a
desire to see happen is in the hands of those who own property. As a result, he thought it made
sense to add in a reference to land owners. The previous plan was more sensitive to that idea.
Mr. Spung asked if Commissioner Shelton was referencing property rights for specific owners,
which was confirmed. It was noted that there can be a reference to land owners added.

Commissioner Shelton asked about the language that states environmental preservation is
prioritized. He wants to know what this means in terms of planning and handling applications. It
would be meaningful if there was clarity about what there is a desire to accomplish. Mr. Spung
explained that each subcommittee will discuss this further. The approach of the Economic
Development Subcommittee was to look at the examples, make notes, and then use them as a
guide.



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 11/05/25                                        6
Commissioner Mills noted that “environmental” might be considered a political word. He asked
whether it could be changed to something slightly different. Mr. Spung reported that the
subcommittee discussed that and landed on something similar, “good steward of the resources.”
Commissioner Shelton agreed that “environmental preservation” could be considered a loaded
term. Mr. Spung explained that the gateway to the canyons is important. There is no desire to
compromise that as part of potential improvement efforts. Commissioner Mills suggested
including the words “natural character.” Mr. Spung noted that there can be strategies included in
the Land Use chapter. He wants to avoid terms that have different meanings to different people.

Mr. Spung asked that the different subcommittees review and discuss the language. There will be
a group discussion in December. Commissioner Shelton noted that based on the current language,
the three items highlighted are: environmental preservation, high-quality urban design, and
thoughtful infrastructure improvements. A question for the City Council is whether those are the
three highest priorities. Mr. Spung noted that a balanced economy would be the fourth item
highlighted. Those four main goals will be present in each chapter. It is important to consider
what there is a desire to achieve. Chair Steinman reminded those present that the Vision Statement
will guide each of the different chapters. Everything has to point back to the Vision Statement,
otherwise, the Vision Statement language needs to be changed so it is more accurate.

3.0    Adjourn.

Commissioner Mills moved to ADJOURN the Work Session. Commissioner Anderson seconded
the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Work Session adjourned at 5:59 p.m.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 11/05/25                                       7
                    MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
                     PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS MEETING

                                 Wednesday, November 5, 2025
                                           6:00 p.m.
                                  2277 East Bengal Boulevard
                                    City Council Chambers

Members Present:       Chair Sean Steinman, Commissioner Mike Shelton, Commissioner Dan
                       Poulson, Commissioner Lucy Anderson, Commissioner Dan Mills,
                       Commissioner Garry Barnes, Commissioner Rusty Lugo - Alternate

Staff Present:         Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; Deputy City
                       Recorder, Cienna Brummel; Planner III, Maverick Yeh; Systems
                       Administrator, Alex Earl; Planner I, Emma Glende

Public Attendees:      Nash Williams; Shersti Thompson; Michelle Nelson; Dave Eichel

BUSINESS SESSION

Chair Steinman called the Planning Commission Business Session to order at 6:00 p.m.

1.0    Welcome and Acknowledgements.

       1.1       Ex Parte Communications or Conflicts of Interest to Disclose.

There were no Ex Parte Communications or Conflicts of Interest disclosed.

2.0    General Public Comment.

There were no public comments.

3.0    Business Items.

       3.1       Project ZTA-25-004 - Public Hearing and Recommendation of a Zoning Text
                 Amendment Related to Minimum Setbacks for Chicken Coops.

Planner I, Emma Glende, presented the Staff Report and explained that Project ZTA-25-004 is a
Zoning Text Amendment related to the minimum setbacks for chicken coops. She explained that
this is a City-initiated Zoning Text Amendment to update Chapter 8.13 – Chickens. The current
code has a 40-foot setback from neighboring dwellings, and there are no enforcement provisions.
She reported that the proposed changes would include reducing the required setback for chicken
coops to 25 feet from neighboring dwellings and would also include an enforcement provision that
would enable the revocation of chicken-keeping permits after three ordinance violations.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 11/05/25                                     8
Ms. Glende reported that Cottonwood Heights has received inquiries from homeowners interested
in owning chickens, but who do not have yards large enough to accommodate a 40-foot setback
from a neighboring dwelling. The current code only permits chickens in yards where they are
located at least 40 feet from neighboring dwellings, but according to the Salt Lake County Health
Department, setbacks of 25 feet to 35 feet from neighboring dwellings are most common.
Reducing the setbacks to 25 feet would allow more residents in the City to have chickens while
still maintaining the recommended distance from neighboring dwellings. Code Enforcement
requested that there be an enforcement provision in the language to ensure that all the other
ordinances related to chickens are followed. This should reduce concerns about noise and odor.

The Staff findings are that the current code is more restrictive than many neighboring cities.
Reducing setbacks would allow residents with smaller lots to have the opportunity to keep
chickens. The 40-foot setback requirement is overly restrictive for some standard-sized residential
lots. Lastly, an enforcement provision would give the City a greater ability to address any non-
compliance when necessary. Staff recommends that the Planning Commission forward a
recommendation of approval to the City Council related to the Zoning Text Amendment.

Chair Steinman opened the public comment period. There were no comments. The public
comment period was closed.

Chair Steinman reported that there was a robust discussion about this item during the Work
Session. The Commission discussed what other cities have in place, as well as possible
amendments to what has been proposed. Commissioner Lucy Anderson explained that the current
requirement is that there be a three-foot distance from the property line. During the Work Session,
the Commission expressed a desire to change that to 10 feet. The 25 feet from neighboring
dwellings language would remain, as well as the enforcement language that has been proposed.

Commissioner Anderson moved to forward a recommendation of APPROVAL to the City
Council for Project ZTA-25-004, based on the findings listed in the Staff Memo and attachments
dated November 5, 2025, with the following conditions:

       1.      Change the distance requirement from 3 feet to 10 feet from the property line.
               There must be a 25-foot setback from neighboring dwellings.

       2.      Add to the enforcement language to state that it can also be based on observation.

Commissioner Mills seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner Barnes – Yes;
Commissioner Shelton – Yes; Commissioner Anderson – Yes; Commissioner Mills – Yes;
Commissioner Poulson – Yes; Chair Steinman – Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

       3.2     Project Second Driveway Exception. The Planning Commission will Consider
               a Request from Nash Williams for an Exception to Allow a Second Driveway
               at 3396 East Antler Way due to Unique Site Grading and Elevation
               Conditions.

Ms. Glende presented the Staff Report and explained that this is a second driveway request. The



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 11/05/25                                        9
property owner at 3396 East Antler Way is requesting approval of a second driveway to serve the
property. The homeowner is in the process of applying for a lot line adjustment, which would
involve purchasing property from the neighboring lot. Significant grading and elevation changes
mean that extending the driveway to the new property is not feasible. The addition of a second
driveway would provide better access to the proposed garage that would be located on the
purchased property.

Ms. Glende shared the relevant Code sections: Section 14.12.110.B.1 – Driveway Approaches and
Section 14.12.150 – Exceptions. Section 14.12.110.B.1 – Driveway Approaches states: “Single-
family dwelling shall be permitted only one access unless a circular driveway approach is utilized.”
However, later on in that section, it states that in cases where unusual topographical or other
exceptional circumstances exist, variations or exceptions to the requirements may be approved by
the City Council after a recommendation from the Planning Commission and the department,
provided that the variation or exception is not detrimental to the public safety or welfare.

A Site Plan was shared with the Commission, which shows the proposed purchase property
outlined in red. The additional driveway approach is shown in blue. The existing lot of the
property owner is shown on the left. Ms. Glende next shared a photograph of the purchased
property, which highlights the grading. The applicant intends to purchase an adjacent portion of
land from a neighboring property. The applicant wants to build a pool and a garage on the
purchased property. After reviewing the geotechnical studies completed for this property, it
appears that extending a driveway from the existing property is not feasible due to grading and
elevation changes. The applicant is proposing a new driveway approach on the expanded parcel,
which would meet all other standards except for being a second driveway approach. The property
has an unusual topography due to the significant grading changes. It would meet the requirements
that would allow the City Council to approve a second driveway approach. The Staff findings are:

   •   The purchased property exhibits unusual topographical circumstances due to the significant
       grading and elevation differences;
   •   The unique circumstances enable the City Council to approve a second driveway if it would
       not be detrimental to public safety or welfare;
   •   The applicant has been proactive in performing any required geotechnical studies and is
       adhering to the Sensitive Lands Evaluation and Development Standards; and
   •   Granting a second driveway would allow the property owner to better utilize their property
       without negatively impacting public safety or welfare.

Staff recommended that the Planning Commission forward a recommendation of approval to the
City Council. Chair Steinman noted that the applicant is present at the Planning Commission
Meeting. The applicant stated that he will address any questions that arise during the hearing.

Chair Steinman opened the public hearing.

Shersti Thompson explained that she lives above the applicant. She wants to understand where the
pool, garage, and driveway will be placed on the land. Ms. Thompson trusts that everything will
work out and does not believe the second driveway will negatively impact the neighborhood. She



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 11/05/25                                        10
explained that her only concern has to do with the noise and dirt moved around during the
construction process, because she likes to keep her windows open in the summer months.

Nash Williams stated that he is the applicant. He explained that there is no way to avoid using a
backhoe during the construction process. The construction process will be traditional, at
approximately 40 hours a week once it starts. There is a geotechnical study that has been
submitted. Some wall construction information will be submitted. It is not possible to avoid the
construction noise. As for the swimming pool, the intention is to construct this so his family can
use it. The lot is situated in a way that it would be difficult to make it an independent lot. That is
the reason for the lot line adjustment, so the additional property will be tied to his existing property.

Dave Eichel gave his address as 3418 East Antler Way and expressed support for the proposal. He
believes what is proposed is a good use of the property and will bring value to the neighborhood.

Michelle Nelson lives at 3384 Marinda Way. She is familiar with the lot, as it is a bit of an eyesore
for the neighborhood. The proposal will likely add value and stability to the land there.

There were no further comments. The public hearing was closed.

Chair Steinman reported that this application was discussed during the Work Session. It seems
like the applicant is taking the correct steps as far as improving the property. Commissioner Mills
noted that what is proposed sounds like an improvement. However, he worries that with the slope,
the retaining wall will be substantial and the geotechnical work required will be sizable. There is
a lot that still needs to be done, but he sees the need for the second driveway to access the garage.
In case the project is not fully completed, he believes it makes sense to include a Condition of
Approval that states certain things must happen before the driveway is approved. During the Work
Session, there was a discussion about possible language. Commissioner Anderson stated that the
Commission discussed a condition related to the issuance of a Building Permit. Chair Steinman
feels comfortable with that condition in case the project does not move forward immediately.

Mr. Williams explained that he has spent approximately $35,000 on this project to date. To finish
the design of the structure, it will be closer to $50,000. As long as the only contingency on the
driveway is the Building Permit for the garage, he is supportive of that condition. If there is
uncertainty about the driveway exception, then he does not want to continue to spend money on
this. Commissioner Anderson shared information about the process. She explained that the
Commission will decide whether or not to forward a recommendation of approval to the Council.
It was noted that this is scheduled to be heard by the City Council on November 18, 2025.

Commissioner Shelton moved to forward a recommendation of APPROVAL to the City Council
for the Second Driveway Exception at 3396 East Antler Way, based on the findings listed in the
Staff Memo and attachments dated November 5, 2025, with the following conditions:

        1.      There must be an approved Building Permit for a garage at that location.

Commissioner Mills seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner Barnes – Yes;
Commissioner Shelton – Yes; Commissioner Anderson – Yes; Commissioner Mills – Yes;



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 11/05/25                                             11
Commissioner Poulson – Yes; Commissioner Lugo – Yes; Chair Steinman – Yes. The motion
passed unanimously.

4.0    Consent Agenda.

       4.1     Approval of Planning Commission Meeting Minutes from October 1, 2025.

Commissioner Anderson asked that on Page 1 under 2.0, there be a correction made to change the
reference to Chair Steinman to Chair Anderson.

Commissioner Mills moved to APPROVE the Consent Agenda, as amended. Commissioner
Shelton seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the
Commission.

5.0    Adjourn.

Commissioner Shelton moved to ADJOURN the Business Session. Commissioner Anderson
seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Business Session adjourned at approximately 6:27 p.m.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 11/05/25                                  12
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the
Cottonwood Heights City Planning Commission Work Session and Business Session held on
Wednesday, November 5, 2025.


Teri Forbes
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: _____________________________




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 11/05/25                               13
