COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING AGENDA
December 15, 2025


Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission will convene on Wednesday,
December 15, 2025, at Cottonwood Heights City Hall (2277 E. Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121) for
its Work Session and Business Session meetings.

   1. Business Session – 6:00 p.m. – City Council Chambers

Both sessions will also be broadcast electronically on the city’s YouTube channel at
https://www.youtube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams.
Please see the reverse side of this agenda for instructions on how to make public comments.


6:00 p.m. Business Session
       1.0 Welcome and Acknowledgements
              1.1 Ex parte communications or conflicts of interest to disclose

       2.0 General Public Comment
       This is an opportunity for individuals to make general public comments that do not relate to any projects
       scheduled for public hearing under the “Business Items” section of this agenda. Please see the Public
       Comment Policy on the reverse side of this agenda for more information.

       3.0 Business Items

               3.1 Public Hearing – General Plan: Water Chapter
               Review and discussion of the Water Use & Preservation Element, which outlines the City’s
               coordination with regional water providers, identifies watershed protection priorities, and
               recommends long-term water conservation strategies.

       4.0 Consent Agenda
              4.1 Approval of December 3, 2025, Planning Commission Minutes

       5.0 Adjourn
       Next Planning Commission Meeting: January 7, 2026
Public Comment
Individuals may provide public comments verbally or via writing.

Verbal comments are accepted in person at the 6:00 p.m. Business Session, but not at the 5:00 p.m. Work
Session. At the Business Session, public comments may be given during two intervals:
   1. General Public Comment Period – An opportunity for general comments not relating to specific projects on
       the meeting agenda.
   2. Specific Project Public Hearings – An opportunity for comments relating to specific projects on the meeting
       agenda which were noticed as public hearings.

Please note that verbal comments must be provided by attending the meetings in-person. Verbal comments
cannot be provided via the electronic broadcast of planning commission meetings on the city’s YouTube channel.

Verbal comment periods are an opportunity for individuals to share comments as they see fit but are not an
opportunity for “question and answer” dialogue. Questions should be directed to city staff at
planning@ch.utah.gov. Verbal comments provided during the public comment period will be limited to three
minutes per individual, or five minutes per a spokesperson who has been asked by a group that is present to
summarize their concerns.

Alternatively, written comments may be submitted to staff via email at planning@ch.utah.gov. For written
comments to be entered into the record and distributed to the planning commission prior to the meeting, they
must be submitted to staff by 12:00 p.m. MST on Sunday, December 14, 2025, the day prior to the meeting.
Comments received after this deadline will be distributed to the planning commission after the meeting.

Meeting Procedures
Items will generally be considered in the following order: 1. Chair introduction of item, 2. Staff presentation, 3.
Applicant presentation, if applicable, 4. Chair opens public hearing, if applicable, 5. Chair closes public hearing, if
applicable, 6. Planning commission deliberation, 7. Planning commission motion and vote on item.

Applications may be tabled if additional information is needed in order to act on the item; or if the planning
commission feels there are unresolved issues that may need further attention before the commission is ready
to make a motion. No agenda item will begin after 9:00 pm without a unanimous vote of the commission. The
commission may carry over agenda items, scheduled late in the evening and not heard, to the next regularly
scheduled meeting.

Notice of Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, individuals needing special accommodations or
assistance during this meeting shall notify the City Recorder at (801) 944-7015 at least 24 hours prior to the
meeting. TDD number is (801) 270-2425 or call Relay Utah at #711.

Confirmation of Public Notice
On Thursday, December 11, 2025, a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the
front foyer of the Cottonwood Heights City Offices. The agenda was also posted on the City’s website at
www.cottonwoodheights.utah.gov and the Utah public notice website at http://pmn.utah.gov.

DATED THIS 11th DAY OF DECEMBER, ATTEST: TIFFANY JANZEN, CITY RECORDER
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION
STAFF MEMO
December 15, 2025


Request
Discussed previously in Planning Commission, the Water Use & Preservation element of the
General Plan outlines the City’s coordination with regional water providers, watershed protection
priorities, and recommended strategies for long-term water conservation. To comply with state
statute, the Water Use & Preservation chapter is required to be adopted before 2026.

Updates
The most recent draft of the Water Use & Preservation element of the General Plan incorporates
revisions based on the Planning Commission’s previous comments. The following changes have
been made:

   •   Page 3 – Updated the mission statement to say “water resources” instead of “watershed”
   •   Page 3 – Clarified that the population growth discussed is historic
   •   Page 15 – Added a short-term strategy for the Public Utilities Advisory Committee
   •   Page 15 – Included infrastructure monitoring as part of the dialogue strategy
   •   Page 16 – Revised the language of first strategy to say “as needed” and “permit”

Recommendation & Model Motions
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission forward a recommendation of approval to the
City Council for the proposed changes.

Approval
I move that we forward a recommendation of approval to the City Council for the Water Use &
Preservation element of the General Plan, based on the finding listed in the staff memo and
attachments dated December 15, 2025.
    • List any other findings or conditions for recommendation of approval…

Denial
I move that we forward a recommendation of denial to the City Council for the Water Use &
Preservation element of the General Plan, based on the following findings…
    • List findings for negative recommendation…



Attachments
   1. Proposed Water Use & Preservation element
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
TOMORROW
WATER USE & PRESERVATION ELEMENT – 2025
2   This page intentionally left blank
WATER USE &
PRESERVATION
                                                        Utah is one of the driest states in the nation. This reality, coupled with years
                                                        of severe drought and historic rapid population growth, has made the
      MISSION STATEMENT                                 preservation of water resources a high priority for Utah’s local governments,
                                                        state leaders, water providers, and the public. Recognizing planning’s critical
Our mission is to safeguard Cottonwood Heights’
                                                        role in water management, the state adopted S.B. 110: Water as Part of the
interests in a secure and resilient water future by
                                                        General Plan in 2022. This new mandate requires Cottonwood Heights to
responsibly exercising the City’s authority over land
                                                        address the impacts of land use planning on water use, aiming towards a
use and development policy. We are committed
                                                        future in which growth and development is supported by an adequate water
to protecting our vital water resources and
                                                        supply.
empowering our residents and businesses to make
informed, water-wise choices that reduce overall        It is important to note that Cottonwood Heights does not currently
demand. Through sound planning and strong               provide culinary or secondary water services to residents and does not
partnerships, we aim to ensure that community           control water supply or distribution planning. Instead, the City exercises
development remains manageable and is supported         its authority over water use primarily through land use decisions. Using
by available resources, promoting a culture of          tools such as the General Plan, zoning regulations, landscape standards, and
voluntary conservation and stewardship.                 the development review process, Cottonwood Heights can influence how
                                                        water is used across the community to ensure growth is manageable and
                                                        supported by available resources.

                                                                               DRAFT WATER USE & PRESERVATION ELEMENT                      3
    Existing Conditions                                                                        A NOTE ON WATERSHED
                                                                                               HEALTH
                                                                                               A healthy watershed is essential to quality
    REGIONAL WATERSHEDS                                                                        of life, public health, water quality, and
                                                                                               long-term economic stability. Thoughtful
    The Jordan River Basin (Map 6.1), encompassing most of Salt Lake County, is                watershed planning helps manage the effects
    Utah’s most populous basin. The use of the basin’s water resources has been                of development through practical measures
    fundamental to the region’s development, providing its residents with diverse              such as identifying sensitive areas, controlling
    employment and recreational opportunities, and enabling a high quality of life.            stormwater runoff, setting stream buffer
                                                                                               standards, and encouraging cooperation among
    The watersheds that feed the Jordan River are critically important as a drinking
                                                                                               neighboring communities.
    water source for the County. These drainage basins, all located within Salt Lake
    County, contribute surface waters that either flow directly into the Great Salt Lake       Big and Little Cottonwood Creeks, which run
    or recharge the basin’s groundwater. As one of the many communities relying on             through the City, are important parts of the
    these resources, Cottonwood Heights recognizes the importance of protecting the            Jordan River Basin. Protecting these waterways
    watershed to help maintain reliable, clean water for current and future residents.         and their surrounding landscapes is critical to
                                                                                               preserving the health of the region—including
                                                                                               the Great Salt Lake. These efforts also contribute
    Map 6.1 – Regional Watersheds
                                                                                               to better air quality, outdoor recreation
                                                      Bear River
                                                                                               opportunities, and the overall integrity of both
                                                        Basin                                  natural areas and developed neighborhoods.


                             Great
                              Salt
                             Lake
                                                                           Weber
                                                                           Basin
                                                      Cottonwood Heights




                     West Desert
                       Basin

                                             Jordan
                                              River
                                              Basin
                                                                                   Utah Lake
                                                                                     Basin




4   DRAFT WATER USE & PRESERVATION ELEMENT
REGIONAL WATER CONSERVATION GOALS
Utah’s Regional Municipal & Industrial          For these reasons, it is recommended that Cottonwood Heights align municipal water use
Water Conservation Goals Report (2019)          reduction goals with those established by the Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities
establishes recommended regional water          (SLCDPU). At the time of this plan, SLCDPU’s 2025 Water Conservation Plan was in the final
reduction targets for the entire state. The     stages of adoption and included the goal to reduce current per capita water use from
primary goal for the Salt Lake Region, which    approximately 179 gpcd (Figure 6.1) to 174 gpcd by 2030, with further reductions to 164
encompasses Cottonwood Heights, is an           gpcd by 2040 and 146 gpcd in the long term. According to SLCDPU’s planning efforts, these
11% reduction in overall per capita water       targets help maintain reliable water supplies and support responsible water management to
use (gpcd) by 2030.                             meet future needs amid evolving challenges such as growth pressure and drought.

The Salt Lake City Department of Public         The City’s water conservation efforts will directly support both the regional goals established
Utilities (SLCDPU), the primary water           by the state and the more specific targets set forth by SLCDPU. The water use reduction
provider for Cottonwood Heights, has            goals shown in Figure 6.2 reflect those established by SLCDPU in its draft 2025 Water
established conservation targets that           Conservation Plan.1 Cottonwood Height’s contribution to a secure water future will be
exceed the state’s goal and are tailored to     explored further in the chapter.
the local service area and regional supply
reliability.                                    1         Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities. (2025). Draft 2025 Water Conservation Plan. Salt Lake City, UT. Retrieved
                                                from https://www.slcdocs.com/utilities/PDF%20Files/Conservation/Draft%202025%20SLC%20Water%20Conservation%20Plan.pdf




Figure 6.1 – Estimated Current Per Capita Use    Figure 6.2 – SLCDPU Recommended Interim Conservation Goals

                  ≈ 10 gallons                                             250
                                                   Per Capita Use (gpcd)




                                                                           200
                                                                                        -2.9%
                                                                                 179                              -8.4%
                                                                                                       174                                  -18.7
                                                                                                                                                    %
                                                                           150                                                   166
                                                                                                                                                            146


              179 gpcd                                                     100
      gallons per capita per day                                                 2024               5-year                    10-year                 Long-Term
                (2024)
                                                                                                      DRAFT WATER USE & PRESERVATION ELEMENT                                         5
    LOCAL WATER                                   Map 6.2 – Water Provider Service Areas (approximate)


    SYSTEMS
    As stated, Cottonwood Heights does
    not currently provide culinary or
    secondary water services to residents
    and instead relies on the Salt Lake City
    Department of Public Utilities (SLCDPU)
    for its drinking water supply, with a
    smaller portion of the City served by the
    Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District
    (JVWCD). Because secondary water is not
    currently available, culinary water is used
    for outdoor irrigation, including lawns and
    other landscaping. In compliance with S.B.
    110, the City met with both water utilities
    to discuss long-term water supply and
    distribution planning.

    Conversations with the water
    providers focused on key aspects of
    their conservation plans relevant to
    Cottonwood Heights. Topics included
    available data on current water use and
    future demand, initiatives to support
    the Great Salt Lake, and recommended
    goals, policies, or programs the City might
    adopt to strengthen water conservation.
    A summary of the main takeaways from
    these discussions follows.                            SLCDPU
                                                           JVWCD


6   DRAFT WATER USE & PRESERVATION ELEMENT
SALT LAKE CITY DEPARTMENT OF                                           JORDAN VALLEY WATER
PUBLIC UTILITIES (SLCDPU)                                              CONSERVANCY DISTRICT (JVWCD)
Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities (SLCDPU) is the retail   Based on the number of Cottonwood Heights address points within
water provider for all of Salt Lake City and portions of Millcreek,    its service area, JVWCD provides drinking water to approximately
Cottonwood Heights, Holladay, Murray, Midvale, and South Salt          10% of the City. Of those addresses, 47% are residential and 44%
Lake. Within Cottonwood Heights, SLCDPU supplies water to              are commercial. The Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District
approximately 90% of address points. Based on address types,           (JVWCD) serves a large portion of Union Park Regional Center
the majority of water use is residential (about 89%), followed by      and a smaller area south of Creek Road near Oakdale Elementary.
commercial use at roughly 6%.                                          Given that the service area includes the Regional Center, the high
                                                                       proportion of commercial addresses is expected.
TAKEAWAYS FROM SLCDPU
                                                                       TAKEAWAYS FROM JVWCD
 Shared Conservation Leadership: SLCDPU’s Water
  Conservation Manager also serves, by extension, as Cottonwood         Potential Service Transfer: The area currently served by
  Heights’ Water Conservation Manager. This presents a strong            JVWCD may be transferred to Salt Lake City Public Utilities in the
  opportunity for partnership, particularly around program               future. This would standardize water provision across the City
  promotion and public outreach. The current manager brings              but could result in higher water rates due to SLCDPU’s pricing
  valuable marketing and communication strategies to the table.          structure.

 Desire for Formalized Communication: The Water                        Updated Water Efficiency Standards: JVWCD emphasized
  Conservation Manager expressed a desire to formalize                   the importance of strong water efficiency standards for
  communication between SLCDPU and Cottonwood Heights                    conservation. They plan to update their recommended
  to strengthen collaboration. They emphasized the importance            standards, including revised turf limits for commercial
  of direct engagement and mutual support between cities and             properties, and encourage cities to adopt them when available.
  SLCDPU, noting that layers of hierarchy can sometimes make
                                                                        Enforceable Requirements: Although the area served by
  coordination more difficult.
                                                                         JVWCD appears to be largely built-out, the District is able to
 Upcoming Conservation Plan Update: SLCDPU is in the                    enforce water efficiency standards by requiring landscaping
  process of updating its Water Conservation Plan (2020). Once           to meet specific criteria before approving any new water
  adopted, the updated plan—anticipated in December 2025—                connections.1
  will serve as a valuable resource for Cottonwood Heights and
  the other municipalities served by SLCDPU.                           1          Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District. Rules and Regulations for Retail Water
                                                                       Service. Revised effective June 7, 2023. Retrieved from https://jvwcd.gov/file/7812e3bb-8083-
                                                                       491f-a4b7-cacae6e94d35/00---Rules-and-Regulations-for-Retail-Water-Service-Revised-6-7-23.
                                                                       pdf




                                                                                      DRAFT CHAPTER 6: WATER USE & PRESERVATION                                        7
                          TAKEAWAYS FROM JVWCD (CONTINUED)

                           JVWCD as a Resource: While JVWCD supplies           Focus on Existing Development: Given
                            water to only a small portion of Cottonwood          the City’s mostly built-out status, JVWCD
                            Heights, it remains a valuable resource and          recommended focusing on water conservation
                            partner in promoting water efficiency through        efforts for existing properties. Suggestions
                            its standards, conservation programs, and            include:
                            public education initiatives. Some of the
                            key programs and services JVWCD offers to             •   Making it easier for residents to replace turf
                            support water conservation efforts include:               with water-wise landscaping.

                                                                                  •   Providing additional local funding for
                             •   Utah Water Savers Incentive Program:
                                                                                      landscape conversion incentives (e.g., a
                                 Offers rebates for turf removal, water-
                                                                                      match that increases rebate amounts per
                                 efficient landscaping, and high-efficiency
                                                                                      square foot).
                                 toilet replacements for residents and
                                 businesses.                                      •   Promoting landscape education, including
                                                                                      contractor certifications, Localscapes
                             •   Conservation Garden Park: A demonstration
                                                                                      classes, and resources like Qualified Water
                                 garden providing free classes and resources
                                                                                      Efficient Landscaper (QWEL) Training. The
                                 on drought-tolerant landscaping and
                                                                                      City’s advocacy efforts can support this
                                 water-wise irrigation.
                                                                                      outreach.
                             •   Slow the Flow Campaign: An ongoing
                                                                               CONCLUSION
                                 public outreach effort to educate the
                                 community on practical water-saving           Even though Cottonwood Heights does not
                                 actions.                                      operate its own water utility, the City plays a
                                                                               powerful role in shaping local water use through
                             •   Qualified Water Efficient Landscaper
                                                                               the tools it does control—particularly in land
                                 (QWEL) Training: Certification programs for
                                                                               use planning and policy. The City’s General Plan,
                                 landscapers to promote sustainable water
                                                                               zoning code, and development standards establish
                                 management practices.
                                                                               the physical layout of the community and directly
                             •   Member Agency Assistance Program:             influence how much water is needed now and in
                                 Grants and technical support for local        the future.
                                 agencies to implement water conservation
                                 projects and education initiatives.


8   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS GENERAL PLAN DRAFT
Land Use & Water
SHAPING WATER USE & DEMAND
Water demand is intrinsically linked to land use. Cottonwood Heights consists mainly of residential neighborhoods, with commercial
development concentrated along major corridors. Areas with larger lots and lawns tend to use more water than areas with smaller lots and
limited irrigation. While commercial areas generally consume less water per acre than residential neighborhoods, water-intensive uses like
restaurants, car washes, and properties with water-intensive landscaping can drive up demand. With little undeveloped land remaining,
Cottonwood Heights is transitioning to infill and redevelopment—a shift that can promote more efficient water use when guided by smart
growth and water-conscious planning, as discussed on subsequent pages.




Water-conscious land use inspirational imagery.


                                                                                   DRAFT CHAPTER 6: WATER USE & PRESERVATION                 9
     A SECURE WATER FUTURE
     Through proactive planning, Cottonwood Heights aims for a future characterized by vibrant Activity Centers, along with thoughtful infill
     and redevelopment, ensuring the preservation of its natural beauty and the quality of its neighborhoods. As the City is now built out, future
     development will focus on establishing vibrant, mixed-use Activity Centers such as the Town Center and Gravel Pit area, which offer diverse
     commercial, retail, and cultural services. This strategic vision will strengthen the local economy while ensuring that land use patterns continue
     to support a secure water future.

     FUTURE FORECAST
     As described, the Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities             Ongoing coordination between Cottonwood Heights and SLCDPU
     (SLCDPU) in its 2025 Draft Water Conservation Plan, reports a               will be critical to achieving regional water reliability. As SLCDPU
     current system-wide average water use of approximately 179 gpcd             finalizes its updated conservation plan, the City should rely on
     (Figure 6.1). As a contract water customer without a secondary              SLCDPU for refined demand projections, updated per capita
     irrigation system, Cottonwood Heights relies solely on culinary             use data, and guidance on system-wide conservation targets.
     water for outdoor irrigation, likely placing its per capita use at or       By integrating this information into local policies, especially
     above this average.                                                         those related to land use, landscaping standards, water-efficient
                                                                                 development, and outreach and education, Cottonwood Heights
     Cottonwood Heights’ population is projected to grow from 33,594
                                                                                 can align with SLCDPU’s goals and contribute meaningfully to
     residents in 2024 to 41,878 by 2050, an increase of 8,284 residents.
                                                                                 regional water conservation efforts.
     If per capita use remains at the current level of 179 gpcd, total
     annual demand would rise from approximately 6,736 acre-feet
     (acft) in 2024 to about 8,397 acft by 2050—an increase of roughly              Figure 6.3 – Cottonwood Heights Water Use Trajectory
     1,661 acft. However, if the City supports SLCDPU’s long-term goal                      9,000
     of reducing per capita use to 146 gpcd by 2050, total demand could
     be limited to approximately 6,849 acft, nearly maintaining current
                                                                                Acre-Feet
                                                                                            8,000                                         ctory
     consumption despite growth (Figure 6.3). Although Cottonwood                                                               cd   traje
                                                                                                                         179 gp
     Heights does not directly manage water services or supply planning,                                                      146 gpcd target
                                                                                            7,000
     its authority over land use decisions and public education plays
     a crucial role in shaping community water use. The two demand
                                                                                            6,000
     trajectories clearly illustrate how local policies and education efforts                         2024                                              2050
     that enhance water use efficiency can significantly moderate future                        (33,594 residents)                                (41,878 residents)
     demand.
                                                                                    Note: An acre-foot is enough water to cover an acre of land in one foot of water
                                                                                    (approximately 325,851 gallons).


10   DRAFT WATER USE & PRESERVATION ELEMENT
Reducing Water Waste
To support projected growth and manage water demand, Cottonwood Heights can encourage water-saving practices through its planning,
zoning, and regulatory tools—always respecting private property rights. Given that about 70% of municipal water is used residentially,
and nearly 60% of that goes to outdoor irrigation, even small improvements in water efficiency can have a big impact.1 By setting clear,
reasonable water efficiency standards, promoting smart growth, and empowering residents with education and resources, the City can
help reduce water use across all land uses. The following section outlines current and recommended conservation policies and practices for
Cottonwood Heights.



CONSERVATION POLICIES & PRACTICES
OUTDOOR & INDOOR STANDARDS
Water-efficient landscaping standards play a key role in conserving                                     Complementing outdoor efforts, modern appliances and plumbing
water, enhancing neighborhood character, and supporting long-                                           fixtures are significantly more efficient than older models, making
term sustainability. Cottonwood Heights encourages water-efficient                                      upgrades to high-efficiency toilets, faucets, and showerheads
landscaping citywide through ordinances that emphasize drought-                                         among the most cost-effective water conservation strategies. In
tolerant plants, smart irrigation practices, and Localscapes design                                     addition to reducing water use per fixture, newer technologies
principles. Lawn is prohibited in park strips and discouraged on                                        also help minimize leaks. Local landscaping and building codes
steep slopes and in narrow spaces, while inefficient practices like                                     can support conservation by requiring efficient fixtures, water
overspray and runoff are strongly discouraged. These standards                                          reuse systems, smart meters, submetering, rain sensors, automatic
apply primarily to new development but are also encouraged during                                       shutoffs, programmable irrigation, drip systems, water harvesting,
major remodels or changes of use. Importantly, these standards are                                      and limits on outdoor plumbing connections. When combined
designed to remove barriers for residents who wish to implement                                         with restrictions on irrigated landscaping and requirements for
more water-efficient landscapes, including xeriscaping and other                                        efficient irrigation systems, these measures can lead to substantial
drought-tolerant practices that are sometimes prohibited by code                                        reductions in water use.
elsewhere. Maintaining clear requirements and providing guidance
for retrofitting existing landscapes will help the City manage growth
responsibly while reducing long-term water demand.

1         Cottam, M., Becker, K., Stemmler, K., Poudyal, S., Crump, W., Kogan, L., & Hotaling, S. (2025, August 25). Reducing residential landscape water use in Utah: Technologies and strategies. Utah
State University Extension. Retrieved from https://extension.usu.edu/climate/research/reducing-residential-landscape-water-use-in-utah-technologies-and-strategies


                                                                                                                           DRAFT WATER USE & PRESERVATION ELEMENT                                          11
     EDUCATION & OUTREACH                                                     PARTNERSHIPS & PROGRAMS
     The support and participation of community members and local             In 2019, the cities of Cottonwood Heights, Holladay, and Millcreek
     organizations is essential to any successful water conservation          signed an interlocal agreement to collaborate on sustainability
     strategy. As a city that values private property rights and individual   initiatives. This partnership led to the adoption of the Interlocal
     decision-making, Cottonwood Heights places its greatest emphasis         Sustainability Action Plan (ISAP) in 2021, which now serves
     on education, outreach, and voluntary participation—giving               as Cottonwood Heights’ sustainability master plan. Water
     residents the tools and information they need to make their own          use is addressed throughout the ISAP, particularly within the
     water-wise choices. Current efforts and future opportunities include:    Development, Landscaping, and Waste Management sections.

      Utah Water Savers incentives and rebate programs for residents         In addition to regional collaboration, Cottonwood Heights supports
       (Figure 6.4).                                                          water conservation through participation in state-led programs.
                                                                              Thanks to Cottonwood Heights’ water-efficient landscaping
      Distribution of subsidized rain barrels for residents in association
                                                                              ordinance, residents are eligible to participate in Utah Water Savers
       with Utah Rivers Council. SLCDPU offers a similar program to
                                                                              programs. Participation data for these programs is provided in
       customers.
                                                                              Figure 6.4.
      Annual water-wise landscaping workshops in partnership with
       the Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities (SLCDPU) and
                                                                              Figure 6.4 – Utah Water Savers Program Participation
       Jordan Valley Water Conservation District (JVWCD).

      Support for resident tree planting efforts to provide shade,
       reduce ambient heat and prevent water loss.

      Completion of the Mountview Park Pollinator Garden, which
       demonstrates water-wise landscape and irrigation design ideas                        484                                                 217
       and integrates these practices into City projects.                     Smart Controller Rebate                           Turf Conversion Rebate
                                                                                    (since 2018)                                      (since 2021)
      Inclusion of the “Water Tip of the Month” in the City newsletter.                                              141
                                                                                                               Toilet Rebate
      Annual reports highlighting community participation in water                                             (since 2019)
       conservation programs.
                                                                              Cottonwood Heights program participation figures, based on the most recent data available from
                                                                              Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District. Participation numbers may vary due to differences in
     Through these initiatives, Cottonwood Heights can empower                program reporting cycles.
     residents and businesses with practical information, examples, and
     incentives—allowing voluntary, informed choices to drive long-term
     water stewardship.

12   DRAFT WATER USE & PRESERVATION ELEMENT
WATER-SMART GROWTH                                                   GROWING WATER-SMART: 3 BEST
                                                                     PRACTICES
While efficient fixtures and water-wise landscaping are
essential for conservation, land development patterns also           1. SUPPORT WATER CONSERVATION THROUGH MORE
have a significant impact on overall water use. Because these        EFFICIENT DEVELOPMENT PATTERNS
patterns are difficult to change once established, it is important
that Cottonwood Heights apply smart-growth principles                 Where appropriate, encourage compact, infill, smaller lots,
especially to new commercial, industrial, institutional, and           and mixed-use development to reduce water demand and
multifamily development, where the greatest opportunities for          increase infrastructure efficiency.
long-term efficiency exist.
                                                                      Consider refining local policies or development standards
Smart growth principles, including compact development,                to better support—and when necessary, require—these more
infill, and infrastructure efficiency, directly support water          water-efficient patterns.
conservation. More compact developments require shorter
transmission systems, which are less prone to leaks and more         2. INTEGRATE WATER-WISE PRACTICES INTO PLANNING
efficient to operate. Smaller lots reduce the amount of irrigated    TOOLS
landscaping, helping to lower outdoor water demand.
                                                                      Use zoning, municipal code, and land development
Implementing smart growth requires comprehensive zoning,               standards to embed water conservation principles into the built
municipal code, and land development standards. These                  environment.
tools enable the City to establish water-wise expectations
at the time of construction, such as water-wise landscaping           Educate residents and developers about the benefits of
and efficient irrigation practices. Beyond initial construction,       efficient indoor fixtures, smart irrigation systems, and
ongoing conservation goals can be reinforced by landscape              practical lawn areas to encourage their adoption during site
maintenance guidelines, retrofit incentive programs, and               planning and construction.
education and outreach.
                                                                     3. REINFORCE CONSERVATION POST-OCCUPANCY

                                                                      Share landscape maintenance guidelines or educational
                                                                       resources to ensure long-term water efficiency.

                                                                      Promote third party retrofit incentive programs to encourage
                                                                       upgrades in existing developments.




                                                                                 DRAFT WATER USE & PRESERVATION ELEMENT               13
     Water Use & Preservation Goals
     GOAL 1: EMPOWER THE COMMUNITY THROUGH EDUCATION, OUTREACH, AND VOLUNTARY
     WATER CONSERVATION
     SHORT-TERM STRATEGIES (1-2 YEARS)                                   MID-TERM STRATEGIES (3–5 YEARS):

      Promote existing rebate and incentive programs, such as Utah       Continue and expand partnership-based water-wise landscaping
       Water Savers and subsidized rain barrel distributions, through      workshops in collaboration with SLCDPU and JVWCD.
       City communication channels.
                                                                          Explore opportunities to partner with SLCDPU and JVWCD to
      Feature regular “Water Tip of the Month” content in City            provide water-wise education and training for City staff and
       newsletters, social media, and public signage to provide            Public Works personnel, including contractor certifications,
       practical, actionable conservation advice.                          Localscapes classes, and resources like QWEL.net.

      Use City newsletters, workshops, and outreach programs to
                                                                         LONG-TERM STRATEGIES (5+ YEARS):
       share ongoing water conservation efforts and encourage
       voluntary actions among residents.                                 Develop a suite of user-friendly digital platforms and interactive
                                                                           tools that empower residents to make informed water-wise
      Support and promote resident-led initiatives like tree planting
                                                                           decisions, such as a monthly water use and preservation
       and pollinator gardens that exemplify water-wise landscaping
                                                                           newsletter, printable guides and checklists, social media
       principles.
                                                                           campaigns, virtual workshops, water-use calculators, etc.
      Develop and publish annual reports highlighting community
                                                                          Foster a culture of water stewardship through community
       participation in water conservation programs to raise awareness
                                                                           recognition programs, awards, or friendly competitions that
       and celebrate successes.
                                                                           celebrate and incentivize efficient water use.
      Expand outreach by collaborating with a broader range of local
       organizations to reach diverse and under-served community
       members.




14   DRAFT WATER USE & PRESERVATION ELEMENT
Water Use & Preservation Goals
GOAL 2: LEAD BY EXAMPLE IN WATER                                       GOAL 3: STRENGTHEN COLLABORATIVE
EFFICIENCY AND COMMUNITY STEWARDSHIP                                   EFFORTS AND PROMOTE FAIR WATER
                                                                       MANAGEMENT
SHORT-TERM STRATEGIES (1–2 YEARS):
                                                                       SHORT-TERM STRATEGIES (2-5 YEARS)
 Review progress and measurable outcomes from the Interlocal
  Sustainability Action Plan to guide City water stewardship            Establish structured communication processes with SLCDPU,
  initiatives.                                                           such as regular coordination meetings or a liaison role, to
                                                                         enhance shared planning and responsiveness.
 Integrate educational signage in public spaces such as parks,
  trailheads, and City Hall to promote awareness of water-saving        Explore opportunities to have a city representative on the Public
  practices.                                                             Utilities Advisory Committee of SLCDPU to elevate Cottonwood
                                                                         Heights’ voice in the decisionmaking of the department.
MID-TERM STRATEGIES (3–5 YEARS):
                                                                        Partner with SLCDPU to co-host water conservation workshops,
 Encourage the adoption of water-efficient design standards             community events, and outreach campaigns leveraging utility
  for new or renovated City-led development projects wherever            expertise and resources.
  feasible.
                                                                        Engage in open and transparent dialogue with SLCDPU about
                                                                         water pricing, affordability, and infrastructure monitoring to
LONG-TERM STRATEGIES (5+ YEARS):                                         better understand and address resident concerns, recognizing
 Retrofit City facilities and parks with smart irrigation systems,      that pricing authority lies with the utility.
  low-flow fixtures, and drought-tolerant landscaping as budgets
  and staff capacity allow.                                            LONG-TERM STRATEGIES (5+ YEARS)

 Use the Town Center and Activity Centers as visible, inspirational    Collaborate with SLCDPU to identify shared water conservation
  examples of water-wise design and green infrastructure.                goals grounded in the updated Water Conservation Plan (2025),
                                                                         ensuring alignment of City initiatives with utility-led efforts.
 Work with SLCDPU and JVWCD to provide regular, transparent
  updates on water conservation progress to maintain community          Coordinate with Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities to
  engagement and trust.                                                  obtain water usage data specific to Cottonwood Heights.


                                                                                   DRAFT WATER USE & PRESERVATION ELEMENT                   15
     Water Use & Preservation Goals
     GOAL 4: INTEGRATE WATER CONSERVATION INTO THE LAND DEVELOPMENT AND
     REDEVELOPMENT PROCESS.
     SHORT-TERM STRATEGIES (2-5 YEARS)

      Review and update land development standards as needed to
       permit water-efficient practices and policies.

      Review and remove barriers to water conservation (such as
       unnecessary or conflicting regulations, complex procedures, and
       overlapping or ineffective incentives) to ensure clear, consistent
       standards that encourage effective water-saving practices.


     LONG-TERM STRATEGIES (5+ YEARS)

      Actively promote and incentivize infill development to optimize
       existing infrastructure.

      Plan for and incorporate green infrastructure solutions
       (e.g., permeable surfaces, rain gardens, bioswales) within
       development projects to manage stormwater, recharge
       groundwater, improve water quality by filtering runoff, and
       reduce reliance on potable water for irrigation.




16   DRAFT WATER USE & PRESERVATION ELEMENT
                  MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
                    PLANNING COMMISSION WORK MEETING

                                Wednesday, December 3, 2025
                                         5:00 p.m.
                                2277 East Bengal Boulevard
                                  City Council Chambers

ATTENDANCE

Members Present:      Chair Sean Steinman, Vice-Chair Mike Smith, Commissioner Lucy
                      Anderson, Commissioner Mike Shelton, Commissioner Dan Poulson,
                      Commissioner Dan Mills, Commissioner Garry Barnes

Staff Present:        Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; Deputy City
                      Recorder, Cienna Brummel;        Planner III, Maverick Yeh; System
                      Administrator, Alex Earl; Planner I, Emma Glende; Planner III, Sheldon
                      Howa

Absent:               Commissioner Rusty Lugo

WORK SESSION

Chair Sean Steinman called the Planning Commission Work Session to order at 5:03 p.m.

1.0    Review Business Session Agenda.

Chair Steinman reported that the first item on the agenda would be review of the Water Use and
Preservation Element of the Cottonwood Heights General Plan, followed by the Consent Agenda.

2.0    General Plan – Water Chapter. Review and Discuss the Draft Water Use &
       Preservation Element, which Outlines the City’s Coordination with Regional Water
       Providers, Watershed Protection Priorities, and Recommended Strategies for Long-
       Term Water Conservation.

Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung, reported that State noticing
requirements may not have been met on this item and it would need to be tabled to a future meeting.
Commissioner Anderson asked if the element could still be adopted by the December 31, 2025,
deadline. Mr. Spung stated that the minutes will reflect that the Planning Commission approved
of the document but could not formally recommend approval due to the noticing requirements.

The mission statement was discussed. Commissioner Anderson asked what the City can do to
protect the watershed since Cottonwood Heights does not own the water. Mr. Spung clarified that
the City could put safeguards in place to avoid pollution, ensure that its development standards do
not harm groundwater, install bioswales, or other practices to properly filtrate stormwater before



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 12/03/25                                        1
it enters the water system. State and federal agencies maintain stream beds, but the City can place
controls on private land to help clean water before it enters the system.

Commissioner Shelton suggested replacing “watershed” with “resources” as “watershed” may be
perceived as political. Sam Taylor from Landmark Design stated that the term was not intended
to be political but rather to indicate that water is a regional resource, and it is important to protect
the City’s water source. There is a significant overlap between the water use and environmental
elements of the General Plan, but the State’s specific goal in requiring the element is to assess
water as a resource.

Commissioner Poulson asked how water use is quantified. One rural county’s per-capita water
use is 900 gallons per day because the data includes residential, commercial, institutional, and
industrial uses. Mr. Taylor stated that other municipalities can monitor water consumption by user
type because they supply the water, but the Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities did not
have specific data for Cottonwood Heights. Their goal is to reduce per-capita water use by 20%,
but it will be hard to measure the effectiveness of City-specific conservation efforts if that data is
not available. Mr. Spung added that the Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities may have
the data broken down by user, land use, etc., but they had not shared that information with the
City. State law requires that the Water Use and Preservation Element includes a specific reduction
goal even though the data is not available.

Mr. Taylor reported that the data included in the element was pulled from the utility’s draft Master
Plan. In response to a question, he confirmed that the numbers provided in Figure 6.3 were
extrapolated from that data. Commissioner Mills stated that per the Salt Lake City Department of
Public Utilities, 53% of their total usage is residential, 23% commercial, 18% institutional, and
6% industrial. That data can be extrapolated to create realistic expectations for Cottonwood
Heights. Commissioner Poulson remarked that 13% of Salt Lake County is agricultural, and that
usage was not included in the provided data. Additionally, residential usage varies based on
property size.

Shelton stated that the committee did not want the City to be in the position of mandating water
reduction. However, it should be in a position to facilitate education on water use. Individuals
and businesses must make the effort to conserve if they choose to do so. Mr. Spung stated that the
challenge was that there was no way for the City to track the metrics citywide, although it could
track its own usage. Commissioner Anderson indicated that the City already has ordinances in
place to address water usage in new construction.

Chair Steinman stated that the City’s responsibility in this area is education, and obtaining the
actual data would be helpful in that regard. In response to his question, it was clarified that the
element could be updated at any time after adoption.

Mr. Taylor stated that the target goal was established by the public utility for their entire system.
Cottonwood Heights may be an outlier due to property size, conservation efforts, etc.
Commissioner Poulson stated that the Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities was addressing
it by charging a lot more for high water use. Mr. Taylor stated that they would likely find other
ways to favor lower water users in the future, just like electric and gas companies have done.



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 12/03/25                                             2
Commissioner Smith stated that Cottonwood Heights residents pay significantly more for water
than other residents of Salt Lake City, and it would be nice if some of that revenue was utilized to
ensure that the City’s water pipes are in good repair. Commissioner Mills stated that Salt Lake
City claims it is using the increased revenue to replace aging infrastructure.

Commissioner Shelton stated that the City is not well-represented in the conversation about how
its water is managed. Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities is an unregulated monopoly,
and he believes they should be regulated in the same way as Rocky Mountain Power.
Commissioner Poulson noted that a long-time board member is a resident of Cottonwood Heights,
but he agreed that the City has no real representation. Mr. Taylor indicated that one goal outlined
in the chapter is to increase collaboration with the utility. However, a more specific strategy could
also be added. Commissioner Mills stated that a specific strategy would create a mandate to
accomplish the goal. Mr. Spung asked about the goal timeframe, as that strategy would take a
long time to implement and there would be a tradeoff of resources, time, and energy to make it
happen.

The discussion was continued tothe Business Session.

3.0    Review and Discussion of Proposed Zoning Text Amendment ZTA to Allow an
       “Employee Suite” in Commercial Zones.

This above item was discussed prior to item 2.0.

Planner I, Emma Glenda, reported that ZTA-25-006 was a proposed text amendment to add
“Employee Suite” as an accessory use within certain commercial zones. The additional would
better accommodate businesses that require an onsite employee to respond to after-hours needs.
Current code allowed for a caretaker’s or guard’s residence as a Conditional Use in the O-R-D
Zone, but the proposed amendment would be broader and apply to additional zones.

An Employee Suite would be defined as follows:

       “Employee Suite” means a residential living space located entirely within the principal
       building and intended exclusively for occupancy by an employee of the business or
       organization operating on the property. The purpose of an employee suite is to provide
       on-site living accommodations for staff responsible for after-hours operations, emergency
       response, security, or other duties requiring presence outside normal business hours. An
       employee suite is not permitted in an accessory building or detached structure. Such suites
       must remain accessory to the principal use, may contain no more than one kitchen, and
       may only be occupied by the designated employee and their immediate family.

The proposed standards include the following:

       1.      Accessory to principal use;
       2.      Located entirely within existing structure;
       3.      Single-family occupancy;



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 12/03/25                                          3
       4.      Single kitchen permitted;
       5.      No additional accessory living spaces;
       6.      Subordinate to the principal use and no larger than 1,200 square feet;
       7.      Architecture compatible with existing building;
       8.      Occupied only by an employee or subcontractor and their immediate family; and
       9.      All construction and safety standards must be met.

Staff found that the proposed text amendment would provide flexibility for businesses with
operational and emergency-response needs. It would allow limited residential occupancy in
commercial ones while preventing impacts associated with full residential conversion, ensure that
all suites meet strict building and fire safety standards, and maintain the commercial character of
the zones through size limits, occupancy restrictions, and architectural integration.

Ms. Glende reviewed asked the Planning Commission to consider the following policy questions:

   •   Whether the use should be restricted to certain zoning districts.
   •   Whether the use should be limited based on the principal land use operating on the site.
   •   Whether occupancy should be limited to the employed individual or include their
       immediate family.
   •   Whether a separate business license should be required for the employee suite.
   •   Whether the occupant should be required to be a full-time employee.
   •   Whether additional or dedicated parking should be required, including consideration of
       secure or designated parking spaces.
   •   Whether access to the suite must be internal to the principal structure.
   •   Whether the use should be conditional or permitted.

Ms. Glende reported that a veterinary clinic in the City was reported to Code Enforcement for
having a resident veterinarian who lives on the premises. Planner III, Maverick Yeh, stated that
the clinic provides living space for student veterinarians who intern for six to 12 months. The
interns also provide emergency overnight veterinary services. The resident who complained was
concerned that they were renting the living space.

Commissioner Barnes asked if the use should be time-limited. Planner III, Sheldon Howa reported
that as written, the use would be allowed for as long as the worker was employed full-time.

Commissioner Shelton referred to the proposed standard that only one suite is allowed per lot or
principal use. However, some facilities, such as storage units or office warehouses, may be rented
by many individual businesses. He asked if the standard would apply in those situations.
Mr. Howa clarified that as written, each structure with a different use would be allowed to have an
employee. The caretaker ordinance applies to storage units, and only one permanent residence is
allowed. Mr. Spung added that the entire facility is the principal use, not each separate unit. A
strip mall could be viewed as qualifying, but the use could be limited to certain zones or primary
uses. For example, it could be allowed as an accessory use for veterinary or medical clinics, but
retail stores do not need an employee on-site at all times.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 12/03/25                                        4
Commissioner Shelton asked if the use would allow the trending “man caves” where people live
and work in the same space. Chair Steinman stated that an associated business license could be
required to prevent abuse. Hs understanding was that most man caves in Utah are in residential
zones or commercial zones with an associated overlay for residential use.

Commissioner Anderson suggested limiting it to medical or veterinary primary uses. Regarding
parking, a family could need five or six parking spaces, which could affect the number of customer
spaces. Mr. Howa stated that they could be required to provide additional parking for the
residential unit.

Chair Steinman stated that the primary use was an important component. They would not want to
allow an employee suite at a food-and-beverage establishment, for example. He agreed that they
should be allowed for veterinary and medical uses.

Commissioner Mills stated that if the business does not require an on-site employee 24 hours a
day, the use should not be allowed. Necessity should be determined by both the nature of the
business and the fact that it is open to the public 24/7. Some veterinarians have urgent care hours
until 8:00 p.m., but he did not believe that they should meet the requirement. Chair Steinman
indicated that a veterinary office may need a full-time, on-site employee to care for animals all
night but not be open to the public. Commissioner Mills stated that the situation could be handled
with swing shifts, not sleeping accommodations.

Commissioner Smith expressed concern about the government intruding into residents’ private
lives and stated that there needs to be a compelling reason for the government to intervene.
Commissioner Anderson stated that the City does not allow residential living in commercial areas.
For example, Target cannot set up living quarters for its employees. However, there may be
circumstances where it is appropriate to make exceptions to that rule. Commissioner Shelton
agreed that there needs to be a compelling reason based on public health and safety but noted that
the text amendment would create fewer restrictions.

Mr. Spung clarified that if allowed, the City would have a means by which to ensure that any
accommodation is code-compliant. A building permit was not issued for the apartment at the
veterinary clinic, so whether it meets fire and building codes was unknown. Allowing employee
suites would require that they be permitted and inspected. The intent is to allow the accessory use
for businesses that warrant an on-site employee. He recommended that occupancy be restricted to
one employee, not their family.

Chair Steinman stated that mortuaries, for example, may be family businesses in which different
family members accommodate different overnight needs. It is important to ensure that any
employee suites meet residential code, but the business should have discretion over who lives on
their premises. Commissioner Anderson stated that it would need to be defined. Commissioner
Poulson asked if two employees of different genders would need to have separate rooms. Chair
Steinman stated that the business should make the decision about who will be sleeping on-site.
The City should regulate the use from a life and safety standpoint only.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 12/03/25                                        5
Commissioner Mills asked if the unit could be used as a long-term rental. A mortuary in West
Valley has two garage apartments that they rent to people who work for the business a few hours
each week. Commissioner Shelton stated that Salt Lake County used to rent the apartment at the
Crestwood Park pool.

Mr. Howa suggested that the business owner could be required to affirm that the occupant is a full-
time employee. Mr. Spung stated that it would be an enforcement issue; if someone complains,
Code Enforcement could require evidence that the occupant is employed by the business full-time.
However, to be enforceable, it must be specified in the text.

Chair Steinman asked if the proposed permitted or conditional use charts were available. The use
could be permitted in certain cases, like for healthcare or veterinary businesses, but conditional for
all other businesses, so the Planning Commission could set additional restrictions if necessary.
Commissioner Shelton stated that it would be difficult to have a zone-based permitted use that is
dependent on what the building is specifically used for. Mr. Spung clarified that it is common for
an accessorial use to be dependent on the primary use. The language just needed to be crafted
correctly to address potential issues. For example, if the veterinarian moves out and a retail
establishment moves in, how would the change of primary use be handled? Staff will consider
those matters and bring the item back to the Commission for further discussion.

4.0    Adjourn.

Commissioner Smith moved to ADJOURN the Work Session. Commissioner Anderson
seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Work Session adjourned at 6:00 p.m.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 12/03/25                                           6
                    MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
                     PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS MEETING

                                 Wednesday, December 3, 2025
                                          6:00 p.m.
                                 2277 East Bengal Boulevard
                                   City Council Chambers

Members Present:       Chair Sean Steinman, Vice-Chair Mike Smith, Commissioner Lucy
                       Anderson, Commissioner Mike Shelton, Commissioner Dan Poulson,
                       Commissioner Dan Mills, Commissioner Garry Barnes

Staff Present:         Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; Deputy City
                       Recorder, Cienna Brummel;        Planner III, Maverick Yeh; System
                       Administrator, Alex Earl; Planner I, Emma Glende; Planner III, Sheldon
                       Howa

Absent:                Commissioner Rusty Lugo

BUSINESS SESSION

Chair Sean Steinman called the Planning Commission Business Session to order at 6:04 p.m.

1.0    Welcome and Acknowledgements.

       1.1       Ex Parte Communications or Conflicts of Interest to Disclose.

There were no Ex Parte Communications or Conflicts of Interest disclosed.

2.0    General Public Comment.

There were no public comments.

3.0    Business Items.

       3.1       General Plan – Water Chapter. Review and Discuss the Draft Water Use &
                 Preservation Element, which outlines the City’s Coordination with Regional
                 Water Providers, Watershed Protection Priorities, and Recommended
                 Strategies for Long-Term Water Conservation.

Sam Taylor from Landmark Design reviewed the draft Water Use and Preservation Element of the
General Plan and reported that the State had approved the document.

SB-110 requires that the following to be addressed in the element:




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 12/03/25                                   7
       1.      The effect of permitted development or development patterns on water demand and
               infrastructure.
       2.      Methods of reducing water demand and per-capita water use for existing and future
               development.
       3.      Opportunities for the municipality to modify operations to eliminate practices or
               conditions that waste water.

Because Cottonwood Heights is not a water provider, the Water Use and Preservation plan focuses
on land use and education as indicated in the mission statement. Mr. Taylor indicated that per
comments received during the Work Session, the term “watershed” may be replaced with “source”
or similar language. Cottonwood Heights is part of the Jordan River basin, which contributes to
the Great Salt Lake Watershed. The State goal for the region is to reduce water use by 11% by
2030, and the Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities goal is to reduce per-capita se from
179 to 146 gallons per day. Cottonwood Heights can aid in achieving these goals by influencing
land use regulations, leading by example on City properties, and public education and outreach.

Cottonwood Heights is a built-out community that is transitioning to infill and redevelopment,
which provides an opportunity to promote more efficient water use than traditional landscaping.
Additionally, the following water conservation strategies were identified:

   •   Re-examine and improve indoor and outdoor water use standards.
   •   Education and outreach: Encourage residents to take advantage of rebate programs,
       workshops, educational programs, etc.
   •   Partnerships and programs: Adopt the 2021 Interlocal Sustainability Action Plan (“ISAP”),
       continue partnering with Utah Water Savers, and increase communication and partnership
       with the with the Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities.
   •   Utilize smart growth principles for land use that encourage compact, mixed-use, walkable
       centers that conserve water.

Mr. Taylor next reviewed the following plan goals and reported that each includes short, mid, and
long-term implementation strategies.

       1.      Empower the community through education, outreach, and voluntary water
               conservation.
       2.      Lead by example in water efficiency and community stewardship.
       3.      Strengthen collaborative efforts and promote fair water management.
       4.      Integrate water conservation in the land development and redevelopment process.

Chair Steinman asked Commissioner Shelton to speak on behalf of the Water Use and Preservation
Subcommittee.

Commissioner Shelton reported that “the City can influence land use regulation” was a limiting
statement because the City can and may choose to influence things well beyond that. The draft
document began by stating that Utah is one of the driest states in the nation, and then population
growth is stressed throughout the plan. While that may be true in some parts of Salt Lake County,



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 12/03/25                                       8
Cottonwood Heights’ population has declined over the past 10 years. The City had not seen and
does not expect to see rapid population growth due to its aging population.

Property rights and individual liberty were discussed in the Work Session, and Commissioner
Shelton believed that Goal 4 may be too far-reaching. Cottonwood Heights planned to educate
residents on water conservation, not enforce it, as the most effective enforcement is through
pricing.

Mr. Taylor reviewed the strategies related to Goal 4.

   •   Short-Term Strategies (2-5 Years)
          o Review and update land development standards to incorporate water-efficient
              practices and policies.
          o Review and remove barriers to water conservation (such as unnecessary or
              conflicting regulations, complex procedures, and overlapping or ineffective
              incentives) to ensure clear, consistent standards that encourage effective water-
              saving practices.

   •   Long-Term Strategies (5+ Years)
          o Actively promote and incentivize infill development to optimize existing
             infrastructure.
          o Plan for and incorporate green infrastructure solutions (e.g., permeable surfaces,
             rain gardens, bioswales) within development projects to manage stormwater,
             recharge groundwater, improve water quality by filtering runoff, and reduce
             reliance on potable water for irrigation.

Commissioner Shelton reported that the first strategy may be risky. Commissioner Anderson
noted that water-efficient ordinances were already in place for new development and suggested
adding “if applicable”. Commissioner Shelton stated that “review and update” could mean
eliminate, add, or change, and he believed the language was ambiguous.

Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung, clarified that the strategy would
inform any text amendments to adapt or change existing standards. However, those amendments
would be subject to review by the Planning Commission. For example, commercial zones require
a 15-foot landscape buffer between commercial and residential uses, but Staff had discussed
whether that was necessary or if it could be replaced with a wall or other more water-efficient
buffer. Existing ordinance limits the amount of sod that can be installed in new commercial and
multi-family projects, as well as where it can be located. The strategy was not a mandate for
sweeping changes for residences or established residences, and any amendments would only apply
to new development or redevelopment.

Commissioner Shelton stated that the same idea could be used to either allow or enforce the
installation of a wall, which could make a property owner unable to use their property in a way
that they see fit. Mr. Spung stated that the intent is to remove barriers to water conservation.
Currently City code requires a 15-foot landscape buffer, which is restrictive, uses a lot of water,




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 12/03/25                                        9
and is unnecessary. Commissioner Shelton suggested changing the language to state, “Review
and update land development standards to permit water-efficient practices and policies.”

Commissioner Smith stated that he did not understand the science behind how water use is
measured. In some parts of the City, water seeps up from the ground into lawns, while in others
groundwater goes directly into the creek. Commissioner Anderson stated that a key long-term
strategy for Goal 1 is to develop user-friendly tools to help residents better understand the science.
She liked the strategies’ focus on education, incentives, and simple ways residents can conserve
water. Mr. Taylor agreed that there is a lot of science behind water conservation, and it can get
very detailed very quickly. Policy typically targets things like lawns that are well-known to use a
lot of water, and education encourages the public to understand how their actions affect their water
use and if their water conservation measures actually conserve water.

Commissioner Anderson referred to the statement in Goal 3 that “the City will support fair and
effective water management for all residents” and asked how the City can accomplish that goal if
it does not control the water. Mr. Taylor stated that to date, the City has not had much of a
relationship with the Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities. Many of the Goal 3 strategies
are targeted at building that relationship, improving communication, and getting representation for
the City. Commissioner Anderson remarked that the goal discussed in the Work Session should
be added to this section, as Cottonwood Heights needs to be fairly represented and have a voice in
water decisions. Mr. Taylor stated that the goal could either be achieved through a liaison or at an
administrative level.

Mr. Spung stated that public utilities typically have a public process where they hold open meetings
and public hearings, and Cottonwood Heights can appoint a liaison to attend those meetings and
ensure the City’s voice is heard. They would not be a voting member, but they could keep the
City involved and educated in the process. The concern was whether a Staff member could be
made available to devote the time and attention necessary to foster those relationships. Chair
Steinman agreed that that was a fair point and indicated that it was worth investigating whether
there was a way to get City representation on their governing board.

Chair Steinman asked if the City currently requires a minimum amount of green space for
redevelopment and if any standards would need immediate amendment. Mr. Spung reported that
the amount of grass or sod was limited depending on lot size, but there was no minimum. There
was also an indirect standard regarding impervious coverage. Depending on the zone, only a
certain percentage of lot coverage can be impervious (rooftop, concrete, etc.), and the landscaping
can only have a certain percentage of grass or sod. The balance of landscaping must be xeriscape
or drought-tolerant landscaping. As part of Goal 4, Staff would review the land development code
from a water conservation standpoint and recommend any specific changes.

In response to a follow-up question from Chair Steinman, Mr. Spung reported that less than 1% of
the City remained undeveloped. However, Cottonwood Heights is constantly developing. The
typical lifespan of a commercial building is 20 to 30 years, and new standards would apply when
properties are redeveloped.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 12/03/25                                          10
Chair Steinman stated that he was comfortable with the current draft with the proposed minor
changes and asked about next steps. Mr. Spung reported that the item would need to be noticed
for a public hearing at a future Planning Commission meeting. Mr. Taylor will make the proposed
changes and present the final version at that meeting. The Commission could then forward a
recommendation to the City Council. Chair Steinman asked that Staff research what would be
required to gain representation with the Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities. Cottonwood
Heights is the City Between the Canyons and impacts two waterways, and he believes it would be
advantageous to work toward that goal.

In response to a question from Commissioner Shelton, Mr. Spung stated that he would
communicate with the Utah Department of Natural Resources regarding the noticing issue. He did
not believe there would be any repercussions for adopting the plan in January.

Commissioner Mills moved TABLE the draft Water Use and Preservation Element of the
General Plan to the January 7, 2026, Planning Commission Meeting. Commissioner Poulson
seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

4.0    Consent Agenda

       4.1     Approval of November 5, 2025, Planning Commission Meeting Minutes.

Commissioner Mills moved to APPROVE the Consent Agenda. Commissioner Anderson
seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

5.0    Adjourn.

Commissioner Anderson moved to ADJOURN the Business Session. Commissioner Mills
seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Business Session adjourned at 6:37 p.m.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 12/03/25                                      11
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the
Cottonwood Heights City Planning Commission Work Session and Business Session held on
Wednesday, December 3, 2025.


Teri Forbes
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: _____________________________




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 12/03/25                               12
