Meeting Requested:       Business Meeting ~   Work Session ~   Other D
Public Hearing Needed?   Yes D No ~ Undetermined D
                         Denied D   Approved~ COJ;l!inued D
CM Approval or Denial
                         CM Signature: - -~         L_


Appendix I -Agendas for December 16, 2025, City Council Work Session, CDRA, and
Business Meeting

Appendix 2 - Meeting Minutes for City Council Meetings on 12/02/2025

Appendix 3 - Staff Report/ Adopting a Supplemental Name for a Street Segment (Incheon
Y eonsu Road) Discussion Jared Gerber

Appendix 4 - General Plan Water Element Discussion Jim Spung

Appendix 5 - Spring Tree Sale Discussion Jim Spung

Appendix 6 - Mine Shaft Road Access Policy Mayor Weichers

Appendix 7 - Staff Report/ Action Items Shane Topham


COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND RENEWAL AGENCY (CORA)
Attachment 1 - Resolution 2025-07

CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
Attachment 1 - Ordinance 455
Attachment 2 - Ordinance 456
Attachment 3 - Ordinance 457
Attachment 4 - Resolution 2025-75
Attachment 5 - Resolution 2025-76
Attachment 6 - Resolution 2025-77
Attachment 7 - Resolution 2025-78
                     Cottonwood Heights
                     C,ry bt1uYm rh~ r,111Jr>111




                     Appendix 1

                 December 16, 2025

City Council Work Session, CDRA, and Business Meeting
                       Agendas
                NOTICE OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
                           WORK SESSION AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights City Council will hold a Work Session at
approximately 4:00 p.m., or soon thereafter, on Tuesday, December 16, 2025, in the Cottonwood
Heights City Council Work Room located at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood Heights, Utah.
The public may remotely view the open portions of the meeting through live broadcast by connecting to
https://www.voutube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams, the city's YouTube channel.

4:00 p.m.     I.      WELCOME - Mayor Mike Weichers

              2.      REVIEW OF BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA
                      Mayor Mike Weichers (10-15 min.)

              3.      REPORTS
                      a. UDOT BCC Environmental Update
                          Ericka Mendoza (30 mins.)

              4.      STAFFREPORTS
                      (Each week the city council and staff provide informational reports as a method of
                      keeping up on the day-to-day activities of the city. This agenda item is set aside to allow
                      council members to ask questions or for staff to bring the council up to date regarding
                      any changes since the report was made).

                      a. Adopting a Supplemental Name for a Street Segment (lncheon Yeonsu
                         Road) Discussion
                          Jared Gerber (20 mins.)
                      b. General Plan Water Element Discussion
                          Community and Economic Development Director Jim Spung (20 mins.)
                      c. Spring Tree Sale Discussion
                          Community and Economic Development Director Jim Spung (10 mins.)
                      e. Mine Shaft Road Access Policy
                          Mayor Weichers (15 mins.)

              5.      REVIEW OF CALENDARS AND UPCOMING EVENTS*

                     a. Winter Lobby Arts Display- Monday, November 17th to Monday, January 5th
                     b. Lunar New Year Celebration - Saturday, February 7, 2026, from 10:00 a.m.
                        to 12-noon at City Hall
                     c. Cozy Paint Night - Friday, February 20, 2026, from 6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. at
                        City Hall

                     *For more information, please visit CH UTAH. GOV and click Community Calendar
6.   POSSIBLE CLOSED MEETING TO DISCUSS LITIGATION,
     PURCHASE OR LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY, THE
     CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL COMPETENCE OR
     PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEAL TH OF AN INDIVIDUAL, OR
     ANY OTHER PERMITTED PURPOSE FOR CLOSED
     MEETINGS UNDER UTAH CODE ANN. 52-4-205 OR OTHER
     APPLICABLE LAW.

7.   ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION
                                                        ottonwood Heights
                                                       City betweer, rhe crwyom


                        NOTICE OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND
                        RENEWAL AGENCY WORK SESSION AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights Community Development and Renewal Agency will
hold a Business Meeting beginning at or about 5:30 p.m. on Tuesday, December 16, 2025, in the
Cottonwood Heights City Council Work Room located at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood
Heights, Utah. The public may remotely view the open portions of the meeting through live broadcast by
connecting to the city's YouTube channel: https://www.voutube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams.

         1.0      WELCOME-Chair Mike Weichers

         2.0      DISCUSSION - Town Center Plaza Open Space Discussion

         3.0      ACTION ITEMS
         3.1      Consideration of Resolution 2025-07 Approving and Ratifying an "Agreement to Lease"
                  for Realty within the Town Center at 2300 East Fort Union Community Reinvestment
                  Project Area.
                 (By this resolution the board will approve and ratify the agency's entry into an agreement to lease
                 concerning the agency's approximately 11. 5 acres of realty (currently owned or under contract
                 to purchase) within the agency's Town Center at 2300 East Fort Union community reinvestment
                 project area).

         4.0     POSSIBLE CLOSED MEETING TO DISCUSS LITIGATION,
                 PURCHASE OR LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY, THE CHARACTER
                 AND PROFESSIONAL COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR
                 MENTAL HEALTH OF AN INDIVIDUAL, OR ANY OTHER
                 PERMITTED PURPOSE FOR CLOSED MEETINGS UNDER UTAH
                 CODE ANN. 52-4-205 OR OTHER APPLICABLE LAW.
         5.0     APPROVAL OF l\1INUTES
                 The minutes of this meeting will be approved through the following process: The Agency's secretary
                 promptly will circulate a draft copy ofthe minutes to the Board members, who then will have three business
                 days to provide any proposed corrections to the secretary. The secretary will then circidate a revised draft
                 of the minutes to the Board members, and the same review process will continue until such time as no
                 corrections to the draft minutes are received within the three business days review period, whereupon that
                 draft ofthe minutes will be deemed approved and will become the final minutes ofthe meeting.

        6.0      ADJOURN

On Thursday, December I/, 2025, a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the front foyer of the
Cottonwood Heights City Offices, Cottonwood Heights, Utah. A copy of this notice was sent to the Salt Lake Tribune and
Deseret News, newspapers ofgeneral circulation in the city, by the Office ofthe City Recorder. The agenda was also posted on
the City's website at www.ch.utah.gov and the Utah Public Notice website at h11p:l/pm11.111ah.go,·.

DATED this 11th day ofDecember 2025                                       Tiffany Janzen, Agency Secretary
The city buildingfor this meeting is accessible. In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, people with disabilities
may make requests for reasonable accommodation or assistance by notifying the City Recorder at 801-944-7021 or
recorder(i.1 cli. urali. go,·. at least two business days before the meeting, or by calling Relay Utah at 711.
                NOTICE OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
                          BUSJNESSMEETINGAGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights City Council will hold a Business Meeting
beginning at approximately 7:00 p.m., or soon thereafter, on Tuesday, December 16, 2025, in the
Cottonwood Heights City Council Chambers located at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood
Heights, Utah. The public may remotely view the open portions of the meeting through live broadcast by
connecting to https://www.youtube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams, the city's YouTube channel.
Persons physically attending the meeting in the City Council Chambers may make verbal comments to the
City Council when invited to do so, after completing a speaker comment card. Citizen comments may also
be submitted in writing to the city recorder at citvrecorder@ch.utah.gov by noon, on the meeting date.
In the interest of time and those attending the meeting live, however, submitted written comments will
be entered into the record and distributed to the City Council, but will not be read at the public meeting.
Civility and decorum should be applied in all discussions and debates. Difficult questions, tough
challenges to a point of view, and criticism of ideas and information are legitimate elements of a free
democracy in action. Public officials and the public are encouraged to refrain from making belligerent,
personal, impertinent, slanderous, threatening, abusive, or disparaging comments.

7:00 p.m.      1.0     WELCOME - Mayor Mike Weichers
               2.0     PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
               3.0    CITY COUNCIL COMMITTEE REPORTS
               3.1    Committee Reports by Councilmember Matt Holton (3 min.)
               3.2    Committee Reports by Councilmember Suzanne Hyland (3 min.)
               3.3    Committee Reports by Councilmember Shawn Newell (3 min.)
               3.4    Committee Reports by Councilmember Ellen Birrell (3 min.)
               3.5    Committee Reports by Mayor Mike Weichers (3 min.)

               4.0     CITIZEN COMMENTS
                       During each regular city council meeting (specifically excluding work sessions), there will
                       be a period not to exceed sixty minutes for citizen comment. "(Cottonwood Heights Code of
                       Ordinances 2.30.160 (BJ) Persons physically attending the meeting in the City Council
                       Chambers may make verbal comments to the City Council when invited to do so by the
                       meeting chair. Persons attending the meeting remotely may not make verbal comments to
                       the City Council during the meeting. Persons attending the meeting remotely, or who do not
                       attend the meeting either physically or remotely, are invited to submit written comments to
                       the City Recorder before Noon. on the meeting date. Written comments that are timely
                       submitted will be admitted into the record of the meeting and distributed to the City Council
                       but will not be read at the public meeting.

               5.0     REPORTS
               5.1     Financial Statements Presentation - Finance Director Scott Jurges

               6.0     ACTION ITEMS
6.1   Consideration of Ordinance 455 Adopting a Supplemental Name for a Street
      Segment.
      (This ordinance will adopt the supplemental name of "Incheon Yeonsu Road" for 2300
      East Street from Ft. Union Blvd. to Bengal Blvd. to honor the city's "sister city"
      relationship with the Yeonsu-go District in Incheon, South Korea).
6.2   Consideration of Ordinance 456 Amending the General Plan to Include a Water
      Use and Preservation Element.
      (This ordinance will amend the city's general plan to include a water use and preservation
      element that complies with UTAH CODE ANN. 10-20-404, as required by UTAH CODE ANN.
      10-20-401[4]).
6.3   Consideration of Ordinance 457 Adopting an Exception to Controlled Access to
      Big Cottonwood Canyon Road at Mine Shaft Road.
      (This ordinance will adopt an exception under UTAH CODE ANN. 41-6a-715(5) to the
      controlled access to Big Cottonwood Canyon Road at Mine Shaft Road on "traction
      control" [snow} days).
6.4   Consideration of Resolution 2025-75 Approving an Amendment to a Development
      Agreement.
      (By this resolution the council will approve an amendment to an existing development
      agreement with Land Development LLC concerning real property located at 3526 East
      Fort Union Blvd. The purpose of the amendment is to revise the approved conceptual site
      plan to re-configure the access driveway to provide direct access to Ft. Union Blvd. and to
      make corresponding changes to the verbiage in the approved development agreement).
6.5   Consideration of Resolution 2025-76 Declaring Certain Property Surplus.
      (By this resolution, the council will declare surplus and designate the method ofdisposition
      ofcertain personal property owned by the city).
6.6   Consideration of Resolution 2025-77 Approving Appointments to the Health in the
      Heights Advisory Committee.
      (This resolution will approve various appointments and re-appointments to the city's
      Health in the Heights advisory committee as recommended by the city manager).
6.7   Consideration of Resolution 2025-78 Approving an Amendment to an Interlocal
      Agreement with Salt Lake County for TRCC Funding.
      (This resolution will approve the city's entry into an amendment to an existing interlocal
      agreement with Salt Lake County for TRCC funding of the improvements for phase 3 of the
      city 's Highland Drive pedestn·an trail project).

7.0   CONSENTCALENDAR
7.1   Approval of the minutes for the City Council/Planning Commission Joint Work
      Session of December 2, 2025.


8.0   ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
                                           PUBLIC COMMENT PROCEDURE
     During each City Council business meeting (specifically excluding work sessions), there will be a period not to
     exceed 60 minutes for citizen comment. (Code of Ordinances 2.30.160 (B)). Any person wishing to comment
     on any item not otherwise on the agenda for public comment may address the City Council during the Public
     Comment period. Any person wishing to comment during the Public Comment period s!Jall request recognition
     by the Mayor and upon recognition, approach the microphone and state their name, state if they are a resident of
     Cottonwood Heights and either provide their address or their Council district; and then address the City Council.
     Any person wishing to comment shall limit their comments to no more than three (3) minutes unless more or less
     time is specified by the Mayor. Citizen groups who are present will be asked to appoint a spokesperson, who shall
     limit their comments to no more than five (5) minutes unless more or less time is specified by the Mayor. All
     comments shall be directed to the City Council. No person addressing the City Council during the comment
     period shall be allowed to comment more than once during that comment period. Speakers should not expect any
     debate or dialogue with the Mayor, City Council or City Staff during the meeting.
     The City Council may choose to limit the amount of time allotted to public comment on a specific issue. In such
     cases, special procedures for determining who will be allowed to speak and the order of such speakers will be
     determined by the Council. In the interest of time and those attending the meeting live, submitted written
     comments will be entered into the record, distributed to the City Council but not read at the public meeting.


On Thursday, December 11, 2025, a copy of the foregoing notices was posted in conspicuous view in the front foyer of the
Cottonwood Heights City Offices, Cottonwood Heights, Utah. A copy ofthis notice was sent to the Salt Lake Tribune and Deseret
News, newspapers ofgeneral circulation in the city, by the Office of the City Recorder. The agendas were also posted on the
City's website at www.ch.utah.gov and the Utah Public Notice website at hllp://pm11. wah. gm·.

DATED this JJfh day of December 2025                                      Tiffany Janzen, City Recorder

The city building for this meeting is accessible. In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, people with disabilities
may make requests for reasonable accommodation or assistance by notifying the City Recorder at 80/-944-7021 or
recorder(a c/1.uwh.gm·, at least two business days before the meeting, or by calling Relay Utah at 711.
                      Cottonwood Heights
                      C11y bm,~m ti~ rnn)OIII




                      Appendix 2

                MEETING MINUTES
Joint Planning Commission and City Council Work Session
           and Business Meeting for 12/02/2025
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS JOINT PLANNING COMMISSION/CITY
COUNCIL WORK SESSION HELD TUESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2025, AT 4:00 PM IN THE
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL WORK ROOM LOCATED AT 2277 EAST
BENGAL BOULEVARD, COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

City Council Members Present:
                  Mayor Pro Tempore Shawn Newell, Council Member Matt Holton, Council
                  Member Ellen Birrell, Council Member Suzanne Hyland

Planning Commission Members Present:
                  Lucy Anderson, Mike Shelton, Garry Barnes, Dan Mills, Dan Poulsen

Staff Present:          City Manager, Jared Gerber; Police Chief, Robby Russo; Finance Director,
                        Scott Jurges; Records, Culture, and Human Resources Director, Barbara
                        Higgins; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen; Community and Economic
                        Development Director, Jim Spung; Systems Administrator, Alex Earl; Public
                        Works Director and City Engineer, Matt Shipp; Unified Fire Authority, Riley
                        Pilgrim

1.0     WELCOME - Mayor Pro Tempore Shawn Newell.

In the absence of Mayor Mike Weichers, Mayor Pro Tempore Shawn Newell called the City Council
Work Session to order at 4:00 PM.

2.0    CITY COUNCIL REVIEW OF BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA-Mayor Pro Tempore
       Shawn Newell

Mayor Pro Tern Newell reviewed the Meeting Agenda and stated that the Pledge of Allegiance would
be led by Council Member Birrell, followed by the Citizen Comment Period. Item 4.1 was
consideration of Ordinance 454 Amending Chapter 8.13 of the Cottonwood Heights Code regarding
chickens. Item 4.2 was consideration of Resolution 2025-72 Approving an Event Agreement with
Brown's Amusements Inc. for Butlerville Days. Item 4.3 was Consideration of Resolution 2025-73
Approving and Ratifying an Agreement with Salt Lake County for Tier II Zoo, Arts and Parks
("ZAP") Funding, which would impact the Cottonwood Heights Arts Council, Butlerville Days, and
other City events. Item 4.4 was Consideration of Resolution 2025-74 Declaring Certain Property
Surplus. City Manager, Jared Gerber reported that the property was used the production of "The
Lightning Thief' and was no longer needed. The final item on the agenda was the Consent Calendar.

3.0     STAFF REPORT TO CITY COUNCIL AND PLANNING COMMISSION

        3.1      General Plan Presentation and Discussion with City Council and Planning
                 Commission. Community and Economic Development Director Jim Spung.

Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung, presented each subcommittee's
findings and reported that the next step would be to consolidate the data into a cohesive mission
statement and identify common themes. After reviewing the Council and Planning Commission, the

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for December 2, 2025,   Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       1
results will then be provided to the consultants so the draft General Plan can be updated to more
accurately reflect the City's core principles and ideas.

The common themes amongst the subcommittee comments included:

        •   Connectivity & Accessibility
        •   Community-Centered Growth
        •   High-Quality, Targeted Development
        •   Collaboration & Partnerships
        •   Economic Vitality & Diversification
        •   Smart Design & Compatibility
        •   Access to Amenities & Services
        •   Sustainability & Resilience

The vision and goals for each General Plan element were discussed next.

Land Use

Commissioner Mills read the draft mission statement as follows:

        The City of Cottonwood Heights will promote thought.fill, targeted development that
        strengthens our City, protects private property rights, drives economic opportunities, and
        helps create a vibrant and distinctive sense ofplace for residents and landowners. The City
        will facilitate the improvement of multi-modal connections between homes, businesses, and
        recreational areas. The City will foster a strong local economy, vibrant commercial districts,
        and a community-oriented Town Center. Clear and purposeful land use designations will
        guide development in a way that enhances property values and aligns with the City's long-
        term vision. By streamlining development processes, collaborating with public and private
        partners, and leveraging City-owned assets, the City of Cottonwood Heights will create a
        more connected, accessible, and prosperous future for residents, landowners, businesses, and
        visitors.

Mr. Spung reviewed the recommended goals.

Goal 1: Targeted, high-guality development and redevelopment.
The City will focus growth and reinvestment in strategic areas to strengthen community character,
support a mix of uses, and ensure high-quality development. Updated zoning and targeted incentives
will guide redevelopment that delivers lasting economic and place-making benefits.

Goal 2: Streamlined, predictable, and fair development processes.
Cottonwood Heights will modernize its development review procedures to provide clear, fair, and
efficient processes for applicants and residents. Objective standards and improved coordination will
reduce delays and create greater predictability.

Goal 3: Strengthen neighborhood character and land use compatibility.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for December 2, 2025,     Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       2
New development will enhance neighborhood character through context-sensitive design, appropriate
transitions, and pedestrian-friendly site layouts. This approach will ensure infill and redevelopment
contribute positively to the City's unique sense of place.

Goal 4: Expand connectivity and access to community amenities.
The City will improve multimodal connections between homes, businesses, and recreation areas to
strengthen mobility and access. Investments in trails, transit partnerships, and public amenities will
create a more integrated and accessible community.

Goal 5: Support a resilient, diverse, and vibrant local economy.
Cottonwood Heights will Reinforce key commercial districts and foster flexible innovative spaces
that attract and retain businesses. Strategic economic development efforts will support residents,
visitors, and long-term fiscal sustainability.

Council Member Hyland remarked that it is not accurate to refer to "the city of Cottonwood Heights".
City Attorney, Shane Topham, clarified that "city" should not be capitalized in that case.
Commissioner Mills stated that the subcommittee's intention was that Cottonwood Heights be
referred to in a consistent manner throughout the document. Mr. Spung noted that references may be
inconsistent in the presentation because the different subcommittees' recommendations had not been
edited for consistency.

Council Member Birrell suggested that "workers" be added to Goal 5 as it is important to think about
how to attract the workers that local businesses need. Mr. Spung stated that the Economic
Development chapter touches on that topic, but there was a lot of overlap between the chapters. The
common themes included in the presentation identified themes that may be isolated within a single
chapter but inform decision-making for all chapters. He will speak with the consultant to ensure that
all plan elements are in harmony. A city is a living thing; specific pieces cannot be carved out and
considered in a silo because they are all interconnected and interdependent.

Council Member Hyland remarked that the common themes listed in the presentation were very
generic. She and Commissioner Steinman had spoken about the importance of signaling to developers
that Cottonwood Heights intends to develop a visitor economy because of the benefits it can bring to
residents. The mountain suburban lifestyle that is unique to Cottonwood Heights and Salt Lake
County should also be referenced. The current list of common themes could apply to any city, and
she wanted it to be more distinct.

Council Member Birrell reported that Park City has a visitor economy. She spoke with the gentleman
who was largely responsible for creating their arts district and he indicated that the focus should not
be on what visitors want but rather on encouraging locals to socialize and spend their money in the
city because that will naturally attract visitors.

Council Member Holton agreed with Council Member Hyland but suggested that her
recommendations be included as part of the overall vision, as the common themes already supported
that vision. All parties agreed on the need for a visitor economy, although they may have different
reasons for supporting it. Mr. Spung remarked that the idea was present in most of the common
themes, and the goals outlined in the General Plan will inform specific policy and code changes.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for December 2, 2025,     Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       3
Transportation

Mr. Spung stated that transportation is often the most debated and contentious topic in any community
due to competing interests and values. Cottonwood Heights was developed as an automobile-
oriented, suburban community, and as a result, it does not have ideal transit and bicycle networks. It
is difficult but not impossible to retrofit an existing community. If the City is committed to shifting
to a multi-modal culture, it must also commit time and resources to educate the public, build
infrastructure, and change its land use practices and policies.

Council Member Hyland stated that Cottonwood Heights does not have enough fi.mds to make the
city completely walkable, and the Utah Department of Transportation ("UDOT") will not invest in
doing so. In response to her question, Mr. Spung stated that he encouraged all subcommittees to meet
and review the document prior to the next joint meeting. It would be difficult to change the City's
transportation focus, but it was possible. Minneapolis, for example, had significantly expanded its
bicycling and walking options.

Council Member Holton stated that costs must also be considered. The General Plan did not address
financial constraints, and it could be difficult to balance what the Council would like to see in the
City versus what is feasible. Mr. Spung stated that a goal could be to explore the financial impacts
of each decision. For example, striping roads to add bicycle lanes is an inexpensive option, but one
that would also require education. If the community vision for transportation is clear, it becomes
easier to implement those inexpensive options because the policy direction is already there. Council
Member Holton stated that his preference would be to prioritize specific corridors for alternative
transportation. Council Member Newell agreed and indicated that the City needed to avoid disparate
outcomes. Specific quadrants could be developed for alternative transportation in a way that
considers the City as a whole.

Council Member Birrell stated that the grant process for the roundabout near Brighton High School
spanned nine years. Recent articles had discussed the problem with the continued focus on metrics
such as level of service and the 85 th percentile rule rather than safety, and she believed the City had
an opportunity to say that it values safety. Fifty percent of car trips are three miles or less, and the
Council needed to consider how people are reaching those destinations. Council Member Hyland
stated that Public Works Director1 Matt Shipp, indicated that the level-of-service data was now
considered in a context-sensitive manner. However, she did not believe that safety and level of
service were mutually exclusive. Council Member Binell disagreed, as level service and the 85 th
percentile are based on the speed at which people feel comfortable driving and roads were designed
based on motorists' convenience. She does not believe that current metrics are conducive to
decreasing serious injuries and fatalities.

Council Member Holton stated that resources are limited, and cyclists and pedestrians cannot be
prioritized everywhere. Prioritizing specific areas would allow the City to focus on creating
legitimately safe corridors. Council Member Birrell suggested that the City set a goal of eliminating
fatalities and serious injuries on its roadways by 2030 or 2032. Council Member Newell stated that
it was a worthy but likely unattainable goal.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for December 2, 2025,      Approved: _ _ _ _ _~

                                                       4
Mr. Spung stated that to have a successful land use outcome, the City's transportation infrastrncture
must complement its land uses. For example, you cannot build a walkable downtown area on a
freeway. The land use element includes the goal of strategic development in key areas of the City.
Complementary to that would be things like wider sidewalks, more landscape buffers, and on-street
parking in the Town Center area to foster a more walkable town center and address safety concerns.

Commissioner Anderson read the draft transportation mission statement as follows:

        The mission of Cottonwood Heights' transportation system is to reduce serious injuries and
       fatalities by designing safe, efficient, and accessible ways for everyone to travel, whether
        walking, biking, rolling, taking transit, or driving. We strive to connect neighborhoods, parks,
        schools, businesses, and regional destinations, including the Wasatch canyons, while
       preserving our mountain character and supporting a vibrant, healthy, and resilient
        community.

Mr. Spung remarked that there is an equity component to transportation. Urbanist Andres Duany
said, "In most places in America, people would literally die if they didn't have a car." The City does
not have good transit access or safe cycling or walking paths, and he knows from pushing a stroller
that some areas would be inaccessible to wheelchairs. They also needed to consider why people go
out and if there are safe routes to walk to parks, schools, work, etc.

Council Member Newell stated that before his teenage children were able to drive, he and his wife
were constantly in and out of their cars. The number of trips one household takes is not usually
considered when transportation is discussed.

Mr. Spung reported that there is also a health component. The more people have access to walk or
bicycle and the more enjoyable those activities are, the more people will do them. People in Utah
tend to want trails and walkability for recreation purposes rather than day-to-day activities.
Commissioner Poulson stated that convenience also needs to be considered because people will not
walk or cycle unless it is convenient to do so. People depend on cars because they are convenient.

Council Member Hyland stated that density is also a factor because "walkable" depends on where
you are going and how far away it is. She does not know where anyone would walk to in the City if
not for recreation. Residents have to travel in cars because otherwise families and the elderly cannot
function. During her trip to Europe, they had trouble maneuvering with a stroller and the elderly
members of the group had difficulty, which felt discriminatory. They needed to consider the residents
who require vehicle access to effectively care for themselves and their families.

Council Member Holton pointed out that convenience is not just about proximity. His children are
eight, six, and two years old, and it can be difficult to even ride the bus to ski because they need to
bring so many things with them.

Commissioner Shelton commented that the lead sentence should provide a sense of the City's highest
transportation priority, and the current wording indicated that the highest priority is to reduce serious
risk. In his opinion, the most important transportation priority should be transportation. All possible


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for December 2, 2025,       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       5
measures should be taken to reduce risk, but he did not believe that was the City's highest priority.
Council Member Birrell stated that her constituents' position is that safety supersedes everything else.

Council Member Holton stated that residents would likely not be in favor of a safer route that, for
example, took 10 minutes longer to get to the freeway on Highland Drive. Conversely, they also
would not support a faster route that was more dangerous. Commissioner Poulson stated that the
traveling public wants convenience and would seek alternate routes rather than wait 10 extra minutes.
Council Member Hyland stated that they would cut through neighborhood streets, which is not safe.

Commissioner Shelton believes it is safer to drive children to school than to allow them to walk, but
it should not be mutually exclusive. Considerations like safety and convenience need to be factored
in, but transportation is the priority. Commissioner Anderson clarified that that was the
subcommittee's goal. The first sentence was not intended to indicate that safety was the only priority
but rather that transportation routes should be designed with safety, efficiency, and accessibility in
mind, with the ultimate goal of reducing serious injury and fatalities.

Commissioner Shelton stated that no element of transportation is more costly than roads. If the
General Plan does not prioritize existing road and infrastructure maintenance, it will create
exponential problems.

Commissioner Mills remarked that the inclusion of the word "efficient" could assuage many
concerns. It is unlikely that people from neighboring communities will walk or bike to the Town
Center, which means they need to efficiently get in and out of the area by car. There will be many
more vehicles, which require safe, efficient design of Fort Union Boulevard. He was not excited
about using City resources to maintain people's ability to travel through the City, but if they were
going to stop and spend money or live in Cottonwood Heights, those resources should be used to
make the roads efficient and safe.

Mr. Spung stated that it would be helpful for the Transportation Subc01mnittee to meet and further
flesh out ideas.

Council Member Holton agreed that it is important to ensure that traffic can flow smoothly to and
from the Town Center. The area of Fort Union Boulevard near Chick-fil-A was not pretty, but it was
very easy to get in and out of. Commissioner Anderson referred to Holladay's treatment of the
Hannons shopping center, which is not easy to get to but is a destination, nonetheless. Mr. Spung
stated that walkable mixed-use areas inherently have smaller roads, slower traffic, wider sidewalks,
and other qualities that contribute to the environment, but those elements don't need to be applied to
the entire City. The General Plan needs to communicate which areas are appropriate for those uses
while understanding the infrastructure implications of each use type.

Commissioner Shelton stated that the visitor economy is a big consideration because if done
incorrectly, visitors will avoid the City.

Economic Development

Council Member Hyland read the draft mission statement as follows:

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for December 2, 2025,       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       6
       Cottonwood Heights aims to build a forward-thinking economy grounded in resilience,
       innovation, and fiscal responsibility that benefits residents, businesses, and visitors alike. The
       City strives to attract and retain businesses that align with its vision of a vibrant, livable, and
       environmentally conscious community, balancing new growth and the careful stewardship of
       its unique mountain environment. Building on its strong reputation, Cottonwood Heights will
       remain a premier office destination, retail hub, and desirable residential community with a
       wide range of high-quality housing options that meet the changing needs of residents and the
       woriforce.

Mr. Spung reviewed the recommended goals.

Goal 1: Enhance local access to goods, services, and experiences to capture sales tax revenue.
Ensure that Cottonwood Heights provides a diverse range of essential goods, services, and
recreational experiences that meet the needs of residents and visitors while capturing sales tax dollars
and minimizing leakage to neighboring jurisdictions. This includes prioritizing experiential and
entertainment-based retail, local dining, and outdoor recreation amenities that attract both locals and
tourists, strengthening the local economy.

Council Member Hyland stated that the City needs to focus on unique events. Colmar, France has a
population of 72,000, but 1.6 million people attend their five-week Christmas market. Riquewihr,
France has a population of 1,050, but over 450,000 people attend their event. Cottonwood Heights
can think bigger. If the opportunity is missed, that revenue will go somewhere else, and the City will
continue to have to increase property taxes. The City Council needs to find another way to lighten
that burden and benefit residents. Council Member Holton expressed the hope that the Gravel Pit
area will accomplish that goal.

Commissioner Poulson noted that flea and farmers markets also attract visitors from a wide area and
would provide year-round revenue. Council Member Birrell stated that the Laguna Beach, California
Sawdust Festival brings hundreds of thousands of visitors to the city. Cottonwood Heights is in a
unique location and has the ability to create its own unique festival. Mr. Spung stated that the Town
Center will hopefully be a gathering space with a regional draw.

Goal 2: Prioritize economic development in strategic commercial areas.
Strengthening key commercial districts by using zoning, land use policy, and design standards to
guide reinvestment, attract desired businesses, and enhance community character.

Goal 3: Support redevelopment of strategic properties to serve both residents and visitors.
This goal applies specifically to the Gravel Pit but also to other strategic locations where the City can
support development through infrastructure, financial incentives, etc.

Goal 4: Strengthen the City's role as a premier office, retail, and residential community.
The City needs a diverse range of housing options that meet the evolving needs of both residents and
the workforce.

In response to question raised by Council Member Hyland, Mr. Spung clarified that housing is part
of both land use and economic development strategies. Housing is a large economic development

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for December 2, 2025,       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       7
tool because housing stock supports the workforce. The Council should consider whether the City
should remain a million-dollar-home community or if they want to encourage younger families and
provide workforce housing. A typical family can only afford a mortgage on a home that costs
$300,000 less than the average market-rate house in Cottonwood Heights, but young families spend
more money in their community long-term.

Council Member Newell stated that Cottonwood Heights is built out, very expensive, and has limited
space. He asked how already planned developments are considered in the General Plan. For example,
does it consider the impact the new apartments behind Beans and Brews will have on City roads?

Mr. Spung stated that it is important to provide diverse housing options to everyone. Residents may
want to move out of large homes and into a low-maintenance townhome. The townhome may still
cost $1 million, but providing that option allows people at different life stages to move within the
community. People who do not want to leave their community are often forced to because their
housing options are limited.

Commissioner Mills stated that if a goal is to prioritize current residents by decreasing their property
taxes while maintaining the City's financial health, which is a sales tax issue, which means retail must
be a high priority. He believes Cottonwood Heights has done a very good job of providing diverse
housing options. There is also a lot of vacant office space in the City, and he did not believe premier
office space should be as high of a priority as retail. The City should take advantage of state and
federal affordable housing programs, but from his perspective, the focus should be on high-end retail.

Mr. Spung stated that it is important to promote reinvestment of the City's office areas. As those
properties age, the property owners must decide whether to reinvest or tear down and build
apartments. Jobs bring in tax dollars and provide residents with opportunities for employment.

Water Use and Preservation

Mr. Spung reported that State grants were received to create the Water Use and Preservation element,
and the City had until December 31, 2025, to adopt it. The Planning Commission will review it at its
December 3 meeting, and the City Council will vote on it at its next meeting. However, it could be
amended, if necessary.

The goals outlined in the element are broken into specific short, medium, and long-range actions as
required by the State. Water is provided by Salt Lake City Public Utilities and the Jordan Valley
Water District, so the City has no say in pricing, supply, or infrastructure. However, it does have a
significant impact on consumption by educating the public to consciously conserve water, updating
laws and ordinances regarding landscaping and irrigation, etc.

Goal 1: Empower the community through education outreach and voluntary water conservation.
Education is often more effective than mandates because people inherently want to be good stewards
but may not know how to do it or the impact they can make by, for example, installing water-efficient
fixtures.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for December 2, 2025,      Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                       8
Council Member Holton stated that the subcommittee specifically wanted to emphasize education,
outreach, and voluntary water conservation, not to control every individual homeowner's behavior.
Salt Lake City Public Utilities disincentivize overconsumption through cost increases and other
methods, but the City's efforts are best focused on educating residents on ways to conserve water.

Mr. Spung stated that a recommended action item is to include a "Water Tip of the Month" in each
newsletter. Salt Lake County had installed smart irrigation systems in all county parks, and as a result
their water consumption decreased by 70%. That had a large impact without compromising the
character and quality of the parks.

Goal 2: Lead by example with water efficiency and community stewardship.
The City can show the public that it is holding itself to a high standard with how it handles
landscaping, park strips, etc.

Goal 3: Strengthen collaborative efforts to promote fair water management by promoting better
relationships with Salt Lake City Public Utilities and other water providers.

Council Member Birrell reported that Ted Boyer represents Cottonwood Heights on the Salt Lake
City Public Utilities Water Advisory Committee, and they also have a public forum.

Council Member Holton stated that it is important to the subcommittee that the City support fair and
effective water management for all residents. Although it is not City-controlled, it is the Council's
responsibility to ensure that residents are treated fairly.

Commissioner Shelton stated that water is a municipal service, and his belief is that it is the City's
responsibility to provide its residents with water. Council Member Holton indicated that the City has
a duty to ensure that its residents receive water, but Salt Lake City Public Utilities is the water
provider. If other partnership options become available at a later date, it would be the Council's job
to consider them.

Council Member Birrell stated that it had been inferred that Salt Lake City was somehow taking
advantage of Cottonwood Heights. However, her understanding was that the State of Utah required
that the tiered water rate structure be implemented. She agrees that water is an essential service and
understands that many residents were shocked at the increase, but it was mandated by the State and
implemented statewide.

Mr. Spung commented that the chapter was difficult to create because the State requires specific
consumption goals and strategies, but the available data is for the entire Salt Lake City system. The
consultants had to extrapolate estimated data based on population, and a key action outlined in the
plan is to identify ways to obtain Cottonwood Heights-specific consumption data.

Commissioner Poulson stated that Wayne County's per-capita daily consumption is 900 gallons, but
no information is available on whether that number is only for residential connections or also
commercial, industrial, or institutional users. The State does not appear to have a standardized
formula, so there is no way to do a true apples-to-apples per-capita comparison. Alfalfa farms
consume between 75% and 85% of the water in Utah and then sold out of state.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for December 2, 2025,      Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                       9
Mr. Spung agreed that there should be a way to separate residential versus commercial meters, but he
was unfamiliar with how Salt Lake City collects its data. Different residential land uses also consume
water differently. Irrigation is typically the highest consumer; approximately 70% of all residential
consumption is through irrigation.

Goal 4: Integrate water conservation into the land development and redevelopment process.
The City can control water practices through how areas are developed. For example, 10-acre
residential lots consume more water resources than smaller infill lots.

Recreation

Council Member Holton read the mission statement as follows:

        Cottonwood Heights is committed to enhancing quality of life through a balanced,
        sustainable, and connected system ofparks, trails, and recreational opportunities that reflect
        the City's mountain suburban character. Through thought.fit! planning, environmental
        stewardship, and collaboration with regional partners, the City will preserve open spaces,
        protect natural resources, expand access to the outdoors, and encourage active, healthy
        lifestyles.

Goal 1: Maximize existing recreational opportunities.
Cottonwood Heights will prioritize maintaining and modernizing its ex1stmg parks and trails,
ensuring they remain high quality, sustainable, and align with regional canyon access planning.

Goal 2: Expand recreational opportunities.
The City will strategically add new parks, pocket parks, and trail connections to create a more
complete, comfortable, and connected recreational network.

Commissioner Anderson asked if it would be more appropriate to use language like "strive to add"
rather than "add". Council Member Holton stated that the subcommittee listed maximizing existing
recreational opportunities as the first goal because the City has added several parks recently but, for
example, the splashpad at Mountview Park is in need of replacement. He agreed that "strive to add"
was more appropriate, as it is important to add parks where possible but more important to maintain
existing infrastructure.

Goal 3: Enhance accessibility of recreational spaces.
Cottonwood Heights will strive to improve accessibility and connectivity by upgrading facilities,
enhancing key biking routes, and ensuring parks and trails are usable for people of all ages and
abilities.

Council Member Holton remarked that Cottonwood Heights does not have an all-abilities park.
Mr. Spung reported that federal law mandates all new parks have a certain percentage of Americans
with Disabilities Act ("ADA") accessible equipment. Commissioner Mills noted that grant funding
is available for those projects.



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for December 2, 2025,     Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       10
Goal 4: Preserve open spaces.
The City will strive to protect and steward its natural open spaces to preserve ecological health,
safeguard public access, and maintain its suburban mountain character.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Anderson, Mr. Spung reported that "open spaces"
refers to natural open spaces. Commissioner Shelton stated that the 2005 General Plan specified that
open space is public property, not unbuilt private property, and recommended that it be better defined
in the updated plan as well. Mr. Spung noted that some undevelopable private property is zoned as
open space. Council Member Holton suggested adding the word "public" to the goal so that it reads,
"The City will strive to protect and steward its natural public open spaces to preserve ecological
health, safeguard public access, and maintain its mountain suburban character."

Council Member Birrell commented that the City Council needs to decide how the public will access
United States Forest Service lands as people currently access them through the undevelopable private
lands on the eastern edge of Cottonwood Heights. Mr. Spung remarked that preservation of private
land would likely require a monetary exchange. Council Member Holton stated that the General Plan
did not direct the City Council to purchase Hillside Plaza, but the Council reacted to current sentiment
by purchasing it. He believes those types of decisions happen naturally.

Commissioner Mills stated that lessons were learned with Deaf Smith Canyon and the Doverhill
development. Developers and property owners should not have to guess what the City is thinking,
and the current recreation goals did not present a clear vision of what the City wanted to happen or
would facilitate. Mr. Spung stated that the goals would eventually be translated into ordinance. For
example, the subdivision ordinance could be updated to require that new subdivisions adjacent to
existing trails install a connecting trail. However, if that goal is not stated in the General Plan or
required by policy, a developer cannot be required to do it.

In response to a question, Mr. Gerber stated that the General Plan will include maps indicating
proposed future trail locations. It is similar to the transportation maps; the City can request that streets
shown in the General Plan be installed as part of a new development, but it can only be required if
supported by ordinance.

Council Member Birrell remarked that walkability was a priority of the 2005 General Plan, but
projects in District 4 were not designed with walkability in mind. For example, there should be an
easy way to get to the dog park from Bengal Boulevard, and the closest crosswalk to Antczak Park is
at the elementary school. Council Member Hyland stated that the General Plan could address
easements for connectivity.

Council Member Hyland stated that transportation was a pinch point in the document and the
Transportation Subcommittee needed a member who can discuss costs and other considerations,
either someone from the Wasatch Front Regional Council ("WFRC") or a member of City Staff.
Council Member Holton recommended a representative from the Public Works Department. Council
Member Birrell suggested contracting with a qualified resident to consult on the matter. Council
Member Newell stated that qualified Public Works professionals are already available.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for December 2, 2025,        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       11
Mr. Spung indicated that the City could consult the WFRC Regional Transportation Plan, but it is a
broader document. Council Member Hyland stated that both the regional plan and the Utah Trails
Network Plan should be mentioned in the General Plan. There are many sub-plans that should be
considered, and she believed the matter needed additional input. Mr. Spung stated that approximately
50% of the existing plans are related to transportation and agreed that they contained a lot of valuable
information but noted that the General Plan is intended to be a broader overview of the City's goals.
However, he agreed that Public Works Department input would be beneficial.

Commissioner Shelton stated that the vision and economic reality can be in opposition. He believed
that additional input from Public Works or the WFRC may be helpful with the latter, but someone
else may be better suited to helping the City Council determine the vision. Council Member Birrell
stated that the WFRC's expertise is regional, and that may not benefit Cottonwood Heights. She
believes that what makes the roads safer for people who walk and roll also makes them safer for
motorists, and the City needed input from someone who has demonstrably made things better for
another municipality. Council Member Hyland clarified that the WFRC had indicated they could
provide funds to hire consultants, not that the City could contract directly with the WFRC. Mr. Spung
suggested including an action item in the General Plan to create a comprehensive transportation plan
that makes the goals of the General Plan work with the City's transportation system.

Council Member Birrell stated that the draft General Plan did not focus on sustainability and
resiliency. The overarching goals should include biodiversity, reducing the City's carbon footprint,
addressing air quality, etc., as well as financial sustainability to ensure that the City can afford to
maintain its infrastructure. Council Member Holton stated that sustainability was discussed at the
last joint meeting, and at that time it was decided that each subcommitte~ would incorporate those
concepts in their language as appropriate. He believes the committees he was part of did a good job
of addressing the matter. Mr. Spung agreed that the ideas needed to be embedded throughout the
document where appropriate, so the sentiment was not lost.

Next steps were discussed. Mr. Spung reported that the goal was to adopt the General Plan by the
end of the current fiscal year. The draft could be released to the public after the subcommittees had
finalized the mission statements and goals, and their feedback could then be provided to the
consultants. Council Member Holton suggested that Staff check in with the subcommittees to
detennine where they are in the process prior to setting a new meeting date. Mr. Spung encouraged
the Council to review the Water Use and Preservation element prior to its adoption at the December
18, 2025, meeting.

Council Member Holton recommended that the consultants be provided with feedback on the
completed chapters so they could begin working on those updates. The draft plan could then be
reviewed at the next meeting to ensure that they are on the right track prior to presenting it to the
public. Mr. Spung cautioned that the consultants could not be expected to re-draft the document
multiple times. Council Member Birrell suggested that the plan be discussed at least two more
meetings prior to moving forward.

Commissioner Mills recommended that public comment be received in a Planning Commission or
City Council meeting rather than online. In his experience, in-person comments result in higher


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for December 2, 2025,      Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       12
quality feedback. Council Member Birrell suggested that the City conduct town hall meetings for
community engagement.

Commissioner Anderson stated that the General Plan needs an overarching mission statement. Mr.
Spung indicated that the introduction, public outreach, and other elements of the plan were not
included in the discussion, and it would be helpful to fine-tune the content the subcommittees were
working on prior to finalizing a comprehensive mission statement for the City.

Council Member Newell stated that the draft General Plan would be a communication tool to provide
detailed information to the public.

The next joint City Council/Planning Commission meeting was scheduled for January 20, 2026.

       3.2      Excuse Planning Commission.

4.0     REVIEW OF CALENDAR AND UPCOMING EVENTS.

       4.1      Winter Lobby Arts Display- Monday, November 17th to Monday, January 5th .
       4.2      Lunar New Year Celebration-February 7, 2026, from 10:00 AM to 12:00 PM at
                City Hall.
       4.3      Cozy Paint Night - Friday, February 2, 2026, from 6:00 PM to 8:00 PM at City
                Hall.

5.0     POSSIBLE CLOSED MEETING TO DISCUSS LITIGATION, PURCHASE OR
        LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY, THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
        COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH OF AN INDIVIDUAL, OR
        ANY OTHER PERMITTED PURPOSE FOR CLOSED MEETINGS UNDER UTAH
        CODE ANN. 52-4-205 OR OTHER APPLICABLE LAW.

There was no Closed Meeting.

6.0     ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION.

MOTION: Council Member Holton moved to ADJOURN the City Council Work Session. The
motion was seconded by Council Member Hyland. The motion passed with the unanimous consent
of the Council.

The Work Session adjourned at 6:01 PM.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for December 2, 2025,   Approved: _ __   _ __

                                                       13
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
HELD TUESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2025, AT 7:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD,
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UT AH

Members Present:        Council Member Matt Holton, Council Member Ellen Birrell, Council
                        Member Suzanne Hyland, Council Member Shawn Newell

Staff Present:          City Manager, Jared Gerber; Police Chief, Robby Russo; Finance Director,
                        Scott Jurges; Records, Culture, and Human Resources Director, Barbara
                        Higgins; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen; Community and Economic
                        Development Director, Jim Spung; Systems Administrator, Alex Earl; Public
                        Works Director and City Engineer, Matt Shipp; Unified Fire Authority, Riley
                        Pilgrim

1.0     WELCOME

In the absence of Mayor Mike Weichers, Mayor Pro Tempore Shawn Newell called the City Council
Business Meeting to order at 7:00 PM.

2.0     PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE

Council Member Birrell led the Pledge of Allegiance.

3.0     CITIZEN COMMENTS

Mayor Pro Tern Newell opened the Citizen Comment period.

Maggie Mills provided updates on upcoming Whitmore Library activities. The SYNKOF A Celtic
Christmas Concert would be held on Thursday, December 4, 2025 at 7:00 p.m. followed by the Utah
Puppet Theater on Friday, December 5 at 11 :00 a.m., the Cottonwood Presbyterian Bell Choir on
Monday, December 9 at 7:00 p.m., the Jeannie Luke Choir holiday concert on Thursday, December
18 at 4:30 p.m. and Babcock Performing Readers at 7:00 p.m. Adult and teen do-it-yourself Ugly
Sweater Days were Friday and Saturday, December 19 and 20 from 11 :00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. The final
December event was the Red Cross Blood Drive on December 26 from 11 :00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.

There were no further comments. The Citizen Comment period was closed.

4.0     ACTION ITEMS

        4.1      Consideration of Ordinance 454 Amending Chapter 8.13 (Chickens) of the
                 Cottonwood Heights Code. (This Ordinance will Amend the City Code concerning
                 the keeping of chickens on certain residential lots).

Council Member Holton reported that the City Council also discussed the item in a previous Work
Session, after which Staff updated the ordinance to allow residential chicken-keeping in two-family

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for December 2, 2025,   Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                       14
detached residences and townhomes that meet underlying standards, reduce the required setback from
dwellings from 40 feet to 25 feet, and revert side and rear yard setbacks.

MOTION: Council Member Holton moved to APPROVE Ordinance 454 Amending Chapter 8.13
(Chickens) of the Cottonwood Heights Code. The motion was seconded by Council Member Hyland.
Vote on Motion: Council Member Holton-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member
Newell-Yes; Council Member Birrell-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

       4.2     Consideration of Resolution 2025-72 Approving an Event Agreement with
               Brown's Amusements, Inc. (By this Resolution the Council will Approve the City's
               Entry into an Agreement whereunder the provider will provide and operate a
               "midway" at the City's 2026 Butlerville Days Community Celebration).

MOTION: Council Member Holton moved to APPROVE Resolution 2025-72 Approving an Event
Agreement with Brown's Amusements, Inc. The motion was seconded by Council Member Hyland.
Vote on Motion: Council Member Birrell-Yes; Council Member Holton-Yes; Council Member
Hyland-Yes; Council Member Newell-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

       4.3      Consideration of Resolution 2025-73 Approving and Ratifying an Agreement
                with Salt Lake County for Tier II ZAP Funding. (This Resolution will Approve
                and Ratifv the City's Entry into an Agreement whereunder Salt Lake County will
                provide $20,200 in Tier II ZAP funding for use by the City's Arts CounciQ.

Mayor Pro Tern Newell reported that Zoo, Arts and Parks ("ZAP") funding is utilized by the
Cottonwood Heights Arts Council and City events like Butlerville Days.

MOTION: Council Member Birrell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2025-73 Approving and
Ratifying an agreement with Salt Lake County for Tier II ZAP funding. The motion was seconded
by Council Member Hyland. Vote on Motion: Council Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member
Holton-Yes; Council Member Birrell-Yes; Council Member Newell-Yes. The motion passed
unanimously.

        4.4     Consideration of Resolution 2025-74 Declaring Certain Property Surplus. (By
                this Resolution, the Council will Declare Surplus and designate the method of
                Disposition of certain "props" for "The Lightning Thief' play staged by the City's
                Arts Council in July 2025).

Mayor Pro Tern Newell reported that the above item would surplus stage props used in the
performance of "The Lightning Thief'.

MOTION: Council Member Holton moved to APPROVE Resolution 2025-74 Declaring Certain
Property Surplus. The motion was seconded by Council Member Hyland. Vote on Motion: Council
Member Birrell-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member Holton-Yes; Council Member
Newell-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for December 2, 2025,   Approved: _ __ __ _

                                                       15
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the
Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission and City Council Joint Work Session and the City
Council Business Meetings held on Tuesday, December 2, 2025.


TevL Forbes
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: _ ________ _




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for December 2, 2025,   Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                       17
                Cottonwood Heights
                Cay bttu•u11 rhr r,111,0111




               Appendix 3

             STAFF REPORT

Adopting a Supplemental Name for a Street Segment
        (Incheon Yeonsu Road) Discussion

              Jared Gerber
                                                                                                  G?i3;1 ·,,,
                                                                                                   (@~o~:ood              Heights
                                                                                                    r,,., 1,,,,,,.""'''"'11~




Meeting Requested:            Business Meeting □     Work Session [g)   Other □
Public Hearing Needed?        Yes D No [g) Undetermined □
                              Denied D Approved [g) Con inued 0
CM Approval or Denial
                              CM Signature:   ~

Jared Gerber will lead a discussion on adopting a supplemental name for a street segment (lncheon Yeonsu Road ).
             Cottonwood Heights
             Ciry hrtuYm 1hr r,111)0111




             Appendix 4

          STAFF REPORT
General Plan Water Element Discussion

             Jim Spung
Meeting Requested:            Business Meeting D     Work Session IZl   Other D
Public Hearing Needed?        Yes D No IZl Undetermined D
                              Denied D Approved ~ Co~Jinued D
CM Approval or Denial
                              CM Signature: - -~  JL_
Jim Spung will lead a discussion on the General Plan Water Element.
2
                                                        Utah is one of the driest states in the nation. This reality, coup led with years
                                                        of severe drought and historic rapid population growth, has made the
       MISSION STATEMENT                                preservation of water resources a high priority for Utah's local governments,
                                                        state leaders, water providers, and the public. Recognizing planning's critical
Our mission is to safeguard Cottonwood Heights'
                                                        role in water management, the state adopted S.B. 770: Water as Part of the
interests in a secure and resilient water future by
                                                        General Plan in 2022. Th is new mandate requires Cottonwood Heights to
responsibly exercising the City's authority over land
                                                        address the impacts of land use planning on water use, aimin g towards a
use and development policy. We are committed
                                                        future in which growth and development is supported by an adequate water
to protecting our vital water resources and
                                                        supply.
empowering our residents and businesses to make
informed, water-wise choices that reduce overall        It is important to note that Cottonwood Heights does not currently
demand. Through sound planning and strong               provide culinary or secondary water services to residents and does not
partnerships, we aim to ensure that community           control water supply or distribution planning. Instead, the City exercises
development remains manageable and is supported         its authority over water use primarily through land use decisions. Using
by available resources, promoting a culture of          tools such as the General Plan, zoning regulations, landscape standards, and
voluntary conservation and stewardship.                 the development review process, Cottonwood Heights can influence how
                                                        water is used across the community to ensure growth is manageable and
                                                        supported by ava ilable resources.

                                                                               DRAFT WATER USE & PRESERVATION ELEMENT                       3
    Existing Conditions                                                                    A NOTE ON WATERSHED
                                                                                           HEALTH
                                                                                           A hea lthy watershed is essential to quality
    REGIONAL WATERSHEDS                                                                    of life, public health, water quality, and
                                                                                           long-term economic stability. Thoughtful
    The Jordan River Basin (Map 6.1), encompassing most of Salt Lake County, is            watershed planning helps manage the effects
    Utah's most populous basin. The use of the basin's water resources has been            of development through practical measures
    fundamental to the region's development, providing its residents with diverse          such as identifying sensitive areas, controlling
    employment and recreational opportunities, and enabling a high quality of life.        stormwater runoff, setting stream buffer
                                                                                           standards, and encouraging cooperation among
    The watersheds that feed the Jordan River are critically important as a drinking
                                                                                           neighboring communities.
    water source for the County. These drainage basins, all located within Salt Lake
    County, contribute surface waters that either flow directly into the Great Salt Lake   Big and Little Cottonwood Creeks, which run
    or recharge the basin's groundwater. As one of the many communities relying on         through the City, are important parts of the
    these resources, Cottonwood Heights recognizes the importance of protecting the        Jordan River Basin. Prot ecting these waterways
    watershed to help maintain reliable, clean water for current and future residents.     and their surrounding landscapes is critical t o
                                                                                           preserving t he health of the region-including
                                                                                           the Great Salt Lake. These efforts also contribute
     Map 6 .1 - Regional Watersheds
                                                                                           to bet ter air quality, outdoor recreation
                                                      Bear River
                                                                                           opportu nities, and the overall integrity of both
                                                        Bos,n
                                                                                           natural areas and developed neighborhoods.




                                                        Weber
                                                        Basin




                     West Desert
                       Basin


                                             Jordan
                                              River
                                              Basin



                                          ......
                                                                   Utah Lalce
                                                                     Basin




4   DRAFT WATER USE & PRESERVATION ELEMEN T
REGIONAL W ATER CONSERVATION GOALS
Utah's Regional Municipal & Industrial           For these reasons, it is recommended that Cottonwood Heights align municipal water use
Water Conservation Goals Report (2079)           reduction goals with those established by the Salt La ke City Department of Public Utilities
establishes recommended regional water           (SLCDPU). At the time of this plan, SLCDPU's 2025 Water Conservation Plan was in the final
reduction targets for the entire state. The      stages of adoption and included the goal to reduce current per capita water use from
primary goal for the Salt Lake Region, which     approximately 179 gpcd (Figure 6. 7) to 174 gpcd by 2030, with further reductions to 164
encompasses Cottonwood Heights, is an            gpcd by 2040 and 146 gpcd in the long term. According to SLCDPU's planning efforts, these
11 % reduction in overall per capita water       targets help maintain reliable water supp lies and support responsible water management to
use (gpcd) by 2030.                              meet future needs amid evolving challenges such as growth pressure and drought.

The Salt Lake City Department of Public          The City's water conservation efforts will directly support both the regional goals establ ished
Utilities (SLCDPU), the primary water            by the state and the more specific targets set forth by SLCDPU. The water use reduction
provider for Cottonwood Heights, has             goals shown in Figure 6.2 reflect those established by SLCDPU in its draft 2025 Water
established conservation targets that            Conservation Plan. 1 Cottonwood Height's contribution to a secure water future will be
exceed the state's goal and are tailored to      explored further in the chapter.
the local service area and regional supply
reliability.                                               Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities. (2025). Draft 2025 Water Conservation Plan. Salt Lake City, UT. Retrieved
                                                 from https://www.slcdocs.com/utilities/PDF%20F iles/Conservation/Draft%20202 5%20SLC%20Water%20Conservation%20Plan.pdf




Figure 6 .1 - Estimated Current Per Capita Use    Figure 6 .2 - SLCDPU Recommended Interim Conservation Goals


              II• "' 10 gallons
- - - - - - -"'                                              250



                                                                              - -
••••••
                                                     ""C
                                                      \I




- - - - - - -..
                                                      a.
                                                             200
                                                      GI




••••••                                                ""
                                                     ::::,                              -2.9%


- - - - - - ·-
                                                      !IS

                                                      a. 150



••••••       ..
                                                      !IS
                                                     u
                                                      QI
                                                     a.
              179 gpcd                                       100
      gallons per capita per day                                           2024                      5-year                    10-year                 Long-Term
                   (2024)
                                                                                                       DRAFT WATER USE & PRESERVATION EL EMENT                                        5
    LOCAL WATER
    SYSTEMS
    As stated, Cottonwood Heights does
    not currently provide culinary or
    secondary water services to residents
    and instead relies on the Salt Lake City
    Department of Public Utilities (SLCDPU)
    for its drinking water supply, with a
    smaller portion of the City served by the
    Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District
    (JVWCD). Because secondary water is not       '--~;
                                                              I



    currently available, culinary water is used
    for outdoor irrigation, including lawns and
    other landscaping. In compliance with S.B.
    770, the City met with both water utilities
    to discuss long-term water supply and
    distribution planning.

    Conversations with the water
     providers focused on key aspects of
    their conservation plans relevant to
    Cottonwood Heights. Topics included
                                                                       -   ~



    available data on current water use and
                                                          {;
    future demand, initiatives to support
    the Great Salt Lake, and recommended              ,,'
                                                      I
                                                      I
    goals, policies, or programs the City might       '
                                                      l
                                                          \

    adopt to strengthen water conservation.
    A summary of the main takeaways from
                                                      ~-          ~-
    these discussions follows.                                    SLCDPU
                                                  .                JVWCD


6    DRAFT WATER USE & PR ES ERVATION ELEMENT
Land Use & Water
SHAPING WATER USE & DEMAND
Water demand is intrinsically linked to land use. Cottonwood Heights consists mainly of residential neighborhoods, with commercial
development concentrated along major corridors. Areas with larger lots and lawns tend to use more water than areas with smaller lots and
limited irrigation. While commercial areas generally consume less water per acre than residential neighborhoods, water-intensive uses like
restaurants, car washes, and properties with water-intensive landscaping can drive up demand. With little undeveloped land remain ing,
Cottonwood Heights is transitioning to infill and redevelopment-a shift that can promote more efficient water use when guided by smart
growth and water-conscious planning, as discussed on subsequent pages.




Water-conscious land use inspira tional imagery.



                                                                                   DRAFT CHA PTER 6: WATER USE & PRESERVATION                9
     A SECURE WATER FUTURE
     Through proactive planning, Cottonwood Heights aims for a future characterized by vibrant Activity Centers, along with thoughtful infill
     and redevelopment, ensuring the preservation of its natural beauty and the quality of its neig hborhoods. As the City is now built out, futu re
     development will focus on establishing vibrant, mixed-use Activity Centers such as the Town Center and Gravel Pit area, wh ich offer diverse
     commercial, retail, and cultural services. This strategic vision will strengthen the local economy while ensuring that land use patterns continue
     to support a secure water future.

     FUTURE FORECAST
     As described, the Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities            Ongoing coordination between Cottonwood Heights and SLCDPU
     (SLCDPU) in its 2025 Oraff Water Conservation Plan, reports a              will be critical to achieving regional water reliability. As SLCDPU
     current system-wide average water use of approximately 179 gpcd            finalizes its updated conservation plan, the City shou ld rely on
     (Figure 6.1). As a contract water customer without a secondary             SLCDPU for refined demand proj ections, updated per capita
     irrigation system, Cottonwood Heights relies solely on culinary            use data, and guidance on system-wide conservation targets.
     water for outdoor irrigation, likely placing its per capita use at or      By integrating this information into local policies, especially
     above this average.                                                        those related to la nd use, landscaping standards, water-efficient
                                                                                development, and outreach and education, Cottonwood Heights
     Cottonwood Heights' population is projected to grow from 33,594
                                                                                can align with SLCDPU's goals and contribute meaningfully to
      residents in 2024 to 41,878 by 2050, an increase of 8,284 residents.
                                                                                regional water conservation efforts.
      If per capita use remains at the current level of 179 gpcd, total
     annual demand would rise from approximately 6,736 acre-feet
     (acft) in 2024 to about 8,397 acft by 2050-an increase of roughly          Figure 6.3 - Cottonwood Heights Water Use Trajectory
      1,661 acft. However, if the City supports SLCDPU's long -term goal               9,000
     of reducing per capita use to 146 gpcd by 2050, total demand could
     be limited to approximately 6,849 acft, nearly maintaining current         ;      8,000
                                                                                (II                                               troiec.toi y
     consumption despite growth (Figure 6.3). Although Cottonwood               u.
                                                                                .."'
                                                                                 I                                   f /9 gpc.d

                                                                                                                    -----
                                                                                (II
     Heights does not directly manage water services or supply planning,               7,000                               746 gpcd torger         _   ~
     its authority over land use decisions and public education plays           c(                                                                     ...,.....
     a crucial role in shaping community water use. The two demand
                                                                                       6,000 '--- - - - -- - - ~- - - - - - - -~
     trajectories clearly illustrate how local policies and education efforts                        2024                                              2050
     that enhance water use efficiency can significantly moderate future                    (33,594 residents)                                   (41,878 residents)
     demand.
                                                                                Note: An ocre-foot is enough water to cover on acre of fond in one foot of water
                                                                                (opproximotely 325.851 gallons).



10    DRAFT WATER USE & PRESERVATION ELEMENT
Reducing Water Waste
To support projected growth and manage water demand, Cottonwood Heights can encourage water-saving practices through its planning,
zoning, and regulatory tools-always respecting private property rights. Given that about 70% of municipal water is used residentially,
and nearly 60% of that goes to outdoor irrigation, even small improvements in water efficiency can have a big impact. 1 By setting clear,
reasonable water efficiency standards, promoting smart growth, and empowering residents with education and resources, the City can
help reduce water use across all land uses. The following section outlines current and recommended conservation policies and practices for
Cottonwood Heights.



CONSERVATION POLICIES & PRACTICES
OUTDOOR & I NDOOR STANDARDS
Water-efficient landscaping standards play a key role in conserving                                       Complementing outdoo r efforts, modern appliances and plumbing
water, enhancing neighborhood character, and supporting long-                                             fixtures are significantly more efficient than older models, making
term sustainability. Cottonwood Heights encourages water-efficient                                        upgrades to high-efficiency toilets, faucets, and showerheads
landscaping citywide through ordinances that emphasize drought-                                           among the most cost-effective water conservation strategies. In
tolerant plants, smart irrigation practices, and Localscapes design                                       addition to reducing water use per fixtu re, newer technolog ies
principles. Lawn is prohibited in park strips and discouraged on                                          also help minimize leaks. Local landsca ping and building codes
steep slopes and in narrow spaces, while inefficient practices like                                       can support conservation by requiring efficient fixtures, water
overspray and runoff are strongly discouraged. These standards                                            reuse systems, smart meters, submetering, rain sensors, automatic
apply primarily to new development but are also encouraged during                                         shutoffs, programmable irrigation, drip systems, water ha rvesting ,
major remodels or changes of use. Importantly, these standards are                                        and limits on outdoor plumbing connections. When combined
designed to remove barriers for residents who wish to implement                                           with restrictions on irrigated landscaping and requirements for
more water-efficient landscapes, including xeriscaping and other                                          efficient irrigation systems, these measures can lead to substantial
drought -tolerant practices that are sometimes prohibited by code                                         reductions in water use.
elsewhere. Maintaining clear requirements and providing guidance
for retrofitting existing landscapes will help the City manage growth
responsibly while reducing long-term water demand.

1          Cottam, M., Becker, K.. Stemmler. K., Poudyal, S., Crump, W., Kogan, L., & Hot aling, S. (2025, August 25). Reducing residential landscape water use in Utal1: Technologies and strategies. Utah
State Unive,·sity Extension. Retrieved from llltps://extension ,L1Su,edu/climate/research/reduci ng -residential -landscape-water-use-in-utah -technologies-and-strategies


                                                                                                                            DRAFT WATER USE & PRESERVAT ION ELEMENT                                           11
     EDUCATION & OUTREACH                                                        PARTNERSH I PS & PROGRAMS
     The support and participation of community members and local                In 2019, the cities of Cottonwood Heights, Holladay, and Mi llcree k
     organizations is essential to any successful water conservation             signed an interlocal ag reement to collaborate on sustainability
     strategy. As a city that values private property rights and individual      initiatives. This partnership led to the adoption of the lnterlocal
     decision-making, Cottonwood Heights places its greatest emphasis            Sustainability Action Plan (ISAP) in 2021 , which now serves
     on education, outreach, and voluntary participation-giving                  as Cottonwood Heights' sustainability master plan. Water
     residents the tools and information they need to make their own             use is addressed throughout the ISAP, particu larly within the
     water-wise choices. Current efforts and future opportunities include:       Development, Landscaping, and Waste Ma nagement sections.

     ►    Utah Water Savers incentives and rebate programs for residents         In addition to regional collaboration, Cottonwood Heights supports
          (Figure 6.4).                                                          water conservation through participation in state-led programs.
                                                                                 Thanks to Cottonwood Heights' water-efficient landscaping
     ►    Distribution of subsidized rain barrels for residents in association   ordinance, residents are eligible to participate in Utah Water Savers
          with Utah Rivers Council. SLCDPU offers a similar program to           programs. Participation data for these programs is provided in
          customers.                                                             Figure 6.4.
     ►    Annual water-wise landscaping workshops in partnership with
          the Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities (SLCDPU) and          Figure 6.4 - Utah Water Savers Program Participation
          Jordan Valley Water Conservation District (JVWCD).




                                                                                                                                              ~
      ►   Support for resident tree planting efforts to provide shade,
          reduce ambient heat and prevent water loss.

      ►   Completion of the Mountview Park Pollinator Garden, which                                                      lei
          demonstrates water-wise landscape and irrigation design ideas                          484                      ,_,                        217
          and integrates these practices into City projects.                     Smart Controller Rebate -   Turf Conversion Rebate
      ►   Inclusion of the "Water Tip of the Month" in the City newsletter.
                                                                                       (since 2018)      141       (s ince 2021)
                                                                                                                   Toilet Rebate
      ►   Annual reports highlighting community participation in water                                              (since 2019)
          conservation programs.
                                                                                  Cottonwood Heights program participation figures. based on t/Je most recent data available from
                                                                                 Jordon Valley Water Conservancy District. Participation numbers moy vary due to diffe rences in
     Through these initiatives, Cottonwood Heights can empower                   program reporting cycles.

     residents and businesses with practical information, examples, and
     incentives-allowing voluntary, informed choices to drive long-term
     water stewardshi p.

12    DRAFT WATER USE & PRESERVATION ELEMEN T
WATER-SMART GROWTH                                                   GROWING WATER-SMART: 3 BEST
                                                                     PRACTICES
While efficient fixtures and water-wise landscaping are
essential for conservation, land development patterns also           1. SUPPORT WATER CONSERVATION THROUGH MORE
have a significant impact on overall water use. Because these        EFFICIENT DEVELOPMENT PATTERNS
patterns are difficult to change once established, it is important
that Cottonwood Heights apply smart-growth principles                ►   Where appropriate, encourage compact, infill, smaller lots,
especially to new commercial, industrial, institutional, and             and mixed-use development to reduce water demand and
multifamily development, where the greatest opportunities for            increase infrastructure efficiency.
long-term efficiency exist.
                                                                     ►   Consider refining local policies or development standards
Smart growth principles, including compact development,                  to better support-and when necessary, require-these more
infill, and infrastructure efficiency, directly support water            water-efficient patterns.
conservation. More compact developments require shorter
transmission systems, which are less prone to leaks and more         2. INTEGRATE WATER-WISE PRACTICES INTO PLANNING
efficient to operate. Smaller lots reduce the amount of irrigated    TOOLS
landscaping, helping to lower outdoor water demand.
                                                                     ►   Use zoning, municipal code, and land development
Implementing smart growth requires comprehensive zoning,                 standards to embed water conservation principles into the built
municipal code, and land development standards. These                    environment.
tools enable the City to establish water-wise expectations
at the time of construction, such as water-wise landscaping          ►   Educate residents and developers about the benefits of
and efficient irrigation practices. Beyond initial construction,         efficient indoor fixtures, smart irrigation systems, and
ongoing conservation goals can be reinforced by landscape                practical lawn areas to encourage thei r adoption during site
maintenance guidelines, retrofit incentive programs, and                 planning and construction.
education and outreach.
                                                                     3. REINFORCE CONSERVATION POST-OCCUPANCY

                                                                     ►   Share landscape maintenance guidelines or educational
                                                                         resources to ensure long-term water efficiency.

                                                                     ►   Promote third party retrofit incentive programs to encourage
                                                                         upgrades in existing developments.




                                                                                 DRAFT
     GOAL 1: EMPOWER T H E COMMUNITY THROUGH EDU CATION , OUTREACH , AND VOLU NTARY
     WATER CONSERVATION

     SHORT-TERM STRATEGIES (1-2 YEARS)                                     MID-TERM STRATEGIES (3-5 YEARS):

     ►   Promote existing rebate and incentive programs, such as Utah      ►   Continue and expand partnership- based wat er-wise landscaping
         Water Savers and subsidized rain barrel distributions, t hrough       workshops in colla boration with SLC DPU and JVWCD.
         City communication channels.
                                                                           ►   Explore opportunities to partner with SLCDPU and JVWCD to
     ►   Feature regular "Water Tip of the Mont h" content in City             provide water-wise education and training for City staff and
         newsletters, social media, and public signage to provide              Public Works personnel, including contractor certifications,
         practical, actionable conservation advice.                            Localscapes classes, and resources like QWEL. net.

     ►   Use City newsletters, workshops, and outreach programs to
                                                                           LONG-TERM STRATEGIES (5+ YEARS):
         share ongoing water conservation efforts and encourage
         voluntary actions among residents.                                ►   Develop a suite of user-friendly digita l platforms and int eractive
                                                                               tools that empower residents to make informed water-wise
     ►   Support and promote resident-led initiatives like tree planting
                                                                               decisions, such as a monthly water use and preservation
         and pol linator gardens that exemplify water-wise landscaping
                                                                               newsletter, printable guides and checklists, social media
         principles.
                                                                               campaigns, virtual wo rksho ps, water-use calculators, etc.
     ►   Develop and publish annual reports highlighting community
                                                                           ►   Foster a culture of water stewardship through community
         participation in water conservation programs to raise awareness
                                                                               recognition programs, awards, or fri endly competitions that
         and celebrate successes.
                                                                               celebrate and incentivize effici ent water use.
     ►   Expand outreach by collaborating with a broader range of local
         organizations to reach diverse and under-served community
         members.




14   DRAFT WATER US E & PRESERVATION ELEME NT
GOAL 2 : LEAD BY EXAMPLE IN WATER                                        GOAL 3: STRENGTHEN COLLABORATIVE
EFFICIENCY AND COMMUNITY STEWARDSHIP                                     EFFORTS AND PROMOTE FAIR WATER
                                                                         MANAGEMENT
SHORT-TERM STRATEGIES (1-2 YEARS):
                                                                         SHORT-TERM STRATEGIES (2-5 YEARS)
►   Review progress and measurable outcomes from the lnterlocal
    Sustainability Action Plan to guide City water stewardship           ►   Establish structured com munication processes with SLCDPU,
    init iatives.                                                            such as regu lar coord ination meetings or a liaison role, to
                                                                             enhance shared plan ning and responsiveness.
►   Integrate educat ional signage in public spaces such as parks,
    t railheads, and City Hall to promote awareness of water-saving      ►   Explore opportunities to have a city representative on the Pub lic
    practices.                                                               Ut ilities Advisory Committee of SLCDPU to elevat e Cottonwood
                                                                             Heights' voice in the decision making of the department.
MID-TERM STRATEGIES (3-5 YEARS):
                                                                         ►   Partner with SLCDPU to co-host water conseNation workshops,
►   Encourage the adoption of water-efficient design st andards              community events, and outreach campaigns leveraging utility
    for new or renovated City-led development projects wherever              expertise and resources.
    feasible.
                                                                         ►   Engage in open and transparent dialogue with SLCDPU about
                                                                             water pricing, affordability, and infrastructure monitoring to
LONG-TERM ST RATEGIES (5+ YEARS):                                            better understand and address resident concerns, recognizing
                                                                             t hat pricing authority lies with the ut ility.
►   Retrofit City facilities and parks with smart irrigation systems,
    low-flow fixtures, and drought-tolerant landscapi ng as budgets
    and staff capacity allow.                                            LONG-TERM STRATEGIES (5+ YEARS)

►   Use the Town Center and Activity Centers as visible, inspirational   ►   Collabo rate wit h SLCDPU to ident ify shared water co nservati on
    examples of water-wise design and green infrast ructure.                 goals grou nded in th e updated Water Conservation Plan (2025),
                                                                             ensuring alignment of City initiatives with ut ility-led efforts.
►   Work with SLCDPU and JVWCD to provide regular, tra nsparent
    updates on water conseNation progress to maintain community          ►   Coord inate with Salt Lake City De partment of Public Utilities to
    engagement and tru st.                                                   obtain water usage data specific to Cottonwood Heig ht s.



                                                                                      DRAFT WATER USE & PRESERVAT IO N ELEMEN T                   15
     GOAL 4: INT EGRATE WATER CONSERVATION INTO THE LAND DEVELOPMENT AND
     REDEVELOPMENT PROCESS.

     SHORT-TERM STRATEGIES (2-5 YEARS)

     ►   Review and update land development standards as needed to
         permit water-efficient practices and policies.

     ►   Review and remove barriers to water conservation (such as
         unnecessary or conflicting regu lations, complex procedures, and
         overlapping or ineffective incent ives) to ensure clear, consistent
         standards that encourage effective water-saving practices.


     LONG-TERM ST RATEGIES (5+ YEARS)

     ►   Actively promote and incent ivize infill development to optimize
         existing infrastructure.

     ►   Plan for and incorporate green infrastruct ure solutions
         (e.g., permeable surfaces, rain gardens, bioswales) within
         development projects to ma nage stormwater, recharge
         groundwater, improve water quality by filtering runoff, and
         reduce reliance on potable water for irrigation.




16   DRAFT WATER USE & PRESERVATION ELEMENT
        Cottonwood Heights
        C11y brm-em 1/,r rtlll)'OIII




       Appendix 5

    STAFF REPORT
Spring Tree Sale Discussion

        Jim Spung
      '-&---0-11U(     1-':\ '
            ottonwood Heights
           ri,y bnu«m 1/,e r,IIIJOIU




         Appendix 6

      STAFF REPORT
Mine Shaft Road Access Policy
       Mayor W eichers
Meeting Requested:             Business Meeting D     Work Session IX!   Other D
Public Hearing Needed?        Yes D No IX! Undetermined D
                              Denied D Approved IX! Con inued D
CM Approval or Denial
                              CM Signature:--~

Mayor Weichers wil l lead a discussion on the Mine Shaft Road Access Policy.
    ottonwood Heights
  Ctry b<wv-m tl1t r,mJYllll




  Appendix 7

STAFF REPORT
 Action Items
 Shane Topham
From:             Shane Topham
To:               Tiffany Janzen; Jared Gerber
Subject:          [EXT:]Legislation for December 16th Meetings
Date:             Wednesday, December 10, 2025 11:25:39 AM
Attachments:      WST-Cottonwood Heights CORA-Resolution 2025-07 Approvjng Agreement to Lease for Town Center .pdf
                  WST-Cottonwood Heights-CORA-Town Center-Onyx Thrive Agreement to Lease /Agency"s CLEAN 12 10 25}.pdf
                  WST-Cottonwood Heights-CORA-Town Center-Onyx Thrive Ground Lease /CORA"s CLEAN 12 05 25} pdf
                  WST-Cottonwood Heights-Ordinance 455 Naming a Street Segment Incheon Yeonsu Road.pdf
                  WST-Cottonwood Heights-Ordinance 456 Amending General Plan to Add Water E!ement.pdf
                  WST-Cottonwood Heights-Ordinance 457 Approving a Controlled Access Exception Concerning Mineshaft
                  Drive.pdf
                  WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2025-75 Approving an Amendment to Development Agreement /3526 East
                  Fort Union Blvd.pdf
                  WST-Cottonwood Heights-Amendment to Development Agreement /3526 Fort Union Blvd Project}
                  r12 oa 25} odf
                  20-0613 High East Concept 120125.pdf
                  WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2025-76 Declaring Certain Property Surplus [play Prop) pdf
                  WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2025-77 Approving Health Advjsory Committee Appointments pdf
                  WST-Cottonwood Heights-Reso!ution 2025-78 Approving Amendment to TRCC Fundjng ILA with SLCo (Highland
                  Drive Pedestrian Trail}.pdf
                  Cottonwood Heights Amendment 1 - 12.5.25 pdf


Greetings-


The following items of legislation scheduled for consi deration at the December 16th meetings
are attached for your review and comment:


CPRA Meeting.

   1. Resolution 2025-07. This resolution will approve the agency's entry into the final version
       of the "Agreement to Lease" concerning the agency's approximately 11.5 acres of realty
       (currently owned or under contract to purchase) within the agency's "Town Center at
       2300 East Fort Union" community reinvestment project area. Although an earlier draft of
       this agreement was approved by tile board sev,eral months ago, the form of the
       agreement and its "Master Ground l ease" exhibit (both also attached) now have been
       finalized after substantial negotiations with the proposed "master developer" of the
       project.


City Council Business Meeting.


   1. Ordinance 455. This ordinance will adopt the supplemental name of "lncheon Yeonsu
       Road" tor 2300 East street from Ft. Union Blvd. to Bengal Blvd. to honor the city's "sister
       city" relationship with the Yeonsu-go District in lncheon, South Korea.
   2. Ordinance 456. This ordinance will amend the city's general plan to include a water use
       and preservation element as required by Utah Code Ann. 10-20-401 (4) . A copy of the
       water element will be provided separately by staff, as the final version isn't available at
       this writing.
   3. Ordinance 457. This ordinance will adopt an exception to controlled access to Big
       Cottonwood Canyon Road at Mineshaft Drive on "traction control days" {if possible
       under Utah Code Ann. 41-6a-715[5]).
   4. Resolution 2025-75. By this resolution the council will approve an amendment to an
       existing development agreement with Land Development LLC concerning real property
       located at 3526 East Ft. Union Blvd. A copy of the amendment agreement also is
       attached, along with its amended site plan exhibit.
   5. Resolution 2025- 76. By this resolution the council will declare surplus and designate the
       method of disposition of certain personal property owned by the city.
   6. Resolution 2025-77. This resolution will approve the manager's appointment and re-
       appointment of various persons to the city's "Health in the Heights" advisory committee.
   7. Resolution 2025-78. By this resolution the council will approve the city's entry into an
       amendment to an existing interlocal agreement with Salt Lake County extending the
       agreement's expenditure and reporting deadlines. A copy of the amendment agreement
       also is attached.


Please contract me as soon as possible if there are any questions or concerns regarding the
attachments.


WM. SHANE   ToPHAM I Attorney I ToPHAN LEGAL
4930 Fairview Drive, Holladay, UT 84117
tel+801.808.6325 I Bl.o.

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: The content of this e-mail is confidential and proprietary and may be
attorney-client privileged. If you are not the intended recipient, please destroy it and notify:
wst@tophamlegal.com.


EXTERNAL ATTACHMENT: Only Open if you trust this sender.
                                     ( ,f\        I



                           Cottonwood Heights
                           C11y WlllYm rhr r,111)0111




    COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND RENEWAL
              AGENCY (CDRA)


                         Attachment 1
                      Resolution 2025-07
By this resolution the board will approve and ratify the agency's
   entry into an agreement to lease concerning the agency's
 approximately 11.5 acres of realty (currently owned or under
contract to purchase) within the agency's Town Center at 2300
     East Fort Union community reinvestment project area.
                        COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
             COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND RENEW AL AGENCY

                                   RESOLUTION NO. 2025-07

        A RESOLUTION APPROVING AND RATIFYING AN AGREEMENT TO LEASE
        AND RELATED DOCUMENTS FOR REAL TY WITHIN THE TOWN CENTER
       AT 2300 EAST FORT UNION COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT PROJECT AREA


       WHEREAS, the Community Development and Renewal Agency (the "Agency") of the city
of Cottonwood Heights (the "City'") was created to transact the business and exercise all of the
powers provided for in the Limited Purpose Local Government Entities - Community Reinvestment
Agency Act (Title l 7C, Chapters 1 through 5, UTAH CODE ANNOTATED (1953 as amended) and any
subsequent, replacement or amended law or act (the "Act"); and

        WHEREAS, pursuant to section l 7C-5-l 04 of the Act, the Agency heretofore has adopted a
project area plan (the "Project Area Plan") for the Town Center at 2300 East Fort Union community
reinvestment project area (the "Project Area") by its Resolution 2022-01; and

        WHEREAS, pursuant to its Ordinance 391 the City's city council (the "Council") adopted
the Project Area Plan as the official community development plan for the Project Area and
authorized the Agency to proceed to carry out the Official Plan, all as provided in section l 7C-5-l 09
of the Act; and

       WHEREAS, in furtherance of such authorization, the Agency has negotiated with Onyx
Development, Inc. and Thrive Development, Inc., or an entity owned by them or their principals
("Tenant"), concerning the Agency's proposed long-term ground lease to Tenant of approximately
11.5 acres of ground ( the "Property") that is located on the southeast corner of the intersection of
Fort Union Blvd. and 2300 East Street within the Project Area, all as more fully described in the
"Agreement to Lease" likely to be dated on or about 1 November 2025 between the Agency and
Tenant (the "Agreement") and any and all related documents involving the Agency as a party which
are mentioned in or othe1wise contemplated by that Agreement (collectively, the "Documents"); and

      WHEREAS, on 21 October 2025 the Agency's governing board (the "Board'') approved the
Agency's entry into the then-current fonns of the Documents under its Resolution 2025-06; and

     WHEREAS, subsequently the parties negotiated proposed modifications to the forms of the
Documents approved under Resolution 2025-06; and

        WHEREAS, the Board met on 16 December 2025 to consider, among other things,
approving the updated and likely final forms of the Documents, copies of which are attached as
exhibits hereto (the "Revised Documents"); and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Board has detennined that it is in the best
interests of the Agency to approve and ratify, as appliable, the Agency's entry into the Revised
Documents as proposed;

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the governing board of the Cottonwood
Heights Community Development and Renewal Agency that the Revised Documents be, and hereby
are, ratified and approved, as applicable, and that the Agency's chairman, chief executive officer and
secretary are authorized to execute and deliver the Revised Documents on behalf of the Agency on
such timetable as the Agency's chairman and chief executive officer, in consultation with the
Agency's legal counsel, deem appropriate; and

        BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED by the governing board of the Cottonwood Heights
Community Development and Renewal Agency that the Revised Documents are so approved with
such additions, modifications, deletions or other changes as hereafter may be deemed necessary or
advisable by the Agency' s chairman and chief executive officer in consultation with the Agency' s
legal counsel; and

        BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED by the governing board of the Cottonwood Heights
Community Development and Renewal Agency that the Agency shall provide such notice( s), make
such filing(s) and perform such other acts as may be required by any applicable law in connection
with approval and adoption of the Revised Documents.

       This Resolution, assigned no . 2025-07, shall take immediate effect following the Agency's
provision of any additional notice(s) or acts as may be required by the Act or other applicable law.

        PASSED AND APPROVED effective 16 December 2025.

                                               COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS COMMUNITY
ATTEST:                                        DEVELOPMENT AND RENEWAL AGENCY


By:_ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __                         By _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ __
   Tiffany Janzen, Secretary                      Michael T. Weichers, Chairman


                                               VOTING:

                                               Michael T. Weichers            Yea_Nay _
                                               Matt Holton                    Yea_Nay _
                                               Suzanne Hyland                 Yea _ Nay_
                                               Shawn E. Newell                Yea_Nay _
                                               Ellen Birrell                  Yea_Nay _

      DEPOSITED in the office of the Secretary of the Cottonwood Heights Community
Development and Renewal Agency this 16th day of December 2025.




                                                  2
                                  Agreement to Lease
       THIS AGREEMENT TO LEASE (this "Agreement") is made and entered into effective
_ December 2025 (the "Effective Date") by and among the COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND RENEW AL AGENCY ("Landlord'') of the city of
Cottonwood Heights, Utah ("City"), whose address is 2277 East Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood
Heights, UT 84121 , and ONYX DEVELOPMENT, LLC and THRIVE DEVELOPMENT,
LLC, two Utah limited liability companies whose address is 7585 South Union Park Avenue, Ste.
200, Midvale, UT 84047 (collectively, "Tenant"). In this Lease, Landlord and Tenant are each a
"Party" and collectively are the "Parties."



       A.      Landlord owns fee title to approximately 10.4 acres of realty located on the
Southeast Corner of the intersection of 2300 East and Fort Union Blvd. in Cottonwood Heights,
UT (the "Site"). The legal description of the Site is set forth on attached Exhibtt " A."

       B.      The Site currently houses the "Hillside Plaza" shopping center, an outdated,
underutilized "strip" retail center shown on attached Exhibit "B."

        C.      Abutting the Site on its Northwest comer is an approximately l.09 acre parcel (the
" Walgreens Parcef') currently containing a "W.algreens" retail store tliat is ov.r:ned in fee by
Cottonwood HP, LLC, is ground leased. to Hillside-West, LLC (or an affiliate), and is sub-teased
to Walgreen Co (or an affil,iate) ("Walgreens"). Landlord currently is negotiating to acquire fee
title to the Walgreens Parcel and thereafter intends to pursue tenninating tlte subject leases
(collectively, the "Walgreens Leases") on reasonable tenns and conditions or, if necessary, may
pursue an eminent domain action to terminate the Walgreens Leases. To Landlord' s knowledge,
the tenn of the Walgreens Leas·es will expire no later than 3 l July 2048.

       D.     The Site cu.rrently is encumbered by several tenant Ieases, all of which are
tenninable upon no more tL1an 90 days' prior written notice by Landlord to the current tenants (the
"Terminable Leases") except the lease (the "Dollar Tree Lease") with Dollar Tree Stores, Inc.
("Dollar Tree") of the "Dollar Tree" premises, which currently expires on 31 March 2027 and may
be extended to 31 March 2032. Landlord is poised to commence negotiations with Dollar Tree
concerning tennination of the Dollar Tree Lease. If necessary, Landlord may pursue an eminent
domain action to tenninate the Dollar Tree Lease.

         E.      Effective 25 July 2025, the Pa11ies entered into a non-binding letter of intent (the
"LOI') which contemplates, among other things, that the Parties would, following an
"Investigation Period", jointly enter into a mutually satisfactory master ground lease (the "Ground
Lease," wliich would be recorded as a second-priority encumbrance on the Project [defined
below]), redevelopment agreement ("Development Agreement," which would be recorded as a
first-priority encumbrance on Project) and other related documents (collectively, the "Definitive
Documents") on such tenns and conditions as may be specified in the Definitive Documents as
contemplated by the LOI.

        F.     The purpose of the Definitive Documents will be to cause the currently
underutilized Site, augmented by the Walgreens Parcel, to be leased to Tenant and then soon
transformed into an active, sustainable, and cohesively functioning and integrated mixed-use
project (the "Project"). Landlord acquired the Site as a "legacy" holding that will be available for
redevelopment by Landlord at least every 75 years to better assure that it will consistently remain
an attractive, desirable, vibrant co1mnunity amenity, as detem1ined by Landlord at the times of
such redevelopments. The principal purposes and contents of the Definitive Documents are
smmnarized in the LOI.

        G.     Although the Parties desire to proceed with redevelopment of the Project as quickly
as possible, the Parties need to first resolve various open issues contemplated by the LOI,
including, without limitation, ( 1) Landlord's acquisition of fee title to the Walgreens Parcel; (2)
termination of the Walgreens Lease and relocation ofWalgreens from the Site, potentially through
an eminent domain action by Landlord; (3) tem1ination of the Dollar Tree Lease and relocation of
Dollar Tree from the Site, potentially through an eminent domain action by Landlord; (4) approval
and grant, by City through its public process, of zoning, use, and other entitlements necessary for
the desired redevelopment of the Site; (5) subdivision of the Site into lots as reasonably deemed
necessary to facilitate Tenant's financing and construction of the Project' s improvements (the
"Project Improvements"), including a separate lot for the Plaza (defined below) which will be
constructed and operated by Landlord or City as a public amenity; (6) creation and mutual approval
of schedule of deadlines for the various development milestones of the Project; and (7) possible
acquisition and approval of tax increment financing ("TIF') and other public funding for
permissible Project purposes, as and if legally pennissible and approved by Landlord and other
relevant public entities.

        H.     Before beginning to expend significant funds to plan and entitle tlle Project, Tenant
desires contractual assurance from Landlord that a reasonable time will be available for resolution
of the open issues and that Landlord will enter into the Ground Lease and other Definitive
Documents upon their resolution or waiver. Although Landlord is unwilling to enter into the
Ground Lease or otherwise grant to Tenant any property or otlrer interest in the Site until certain
open issues are so resolved or waived as provided herein, Landlord recognizes the legitimacy of
Tenant's desire for more assurance of Landlord's obligations than the non-binding LOI provides.

        I.     Consequently, the purpose of this Agreement is (I) to institute a mutually
acceptable timeline for resolution of the open items, and (2) to evidence the Parties' intent to enter
into the Ground Lease and other Definitive Documents upon resolution or waiver of the applicable
Conditions ( defined below) as provided in this Agreement.

        J.      The Parties intend to set fo1ih herein their entire agreement concerning such intent
to lease, and to thereby supersede and consolidate herein all prior agreements and negotiations,
oral and/or written, between them regarding the same; provided, however, that the LOI will survive
for background and reference purposes only as noted in this Agreement.

                                       AGREEMENT:

        NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, the mutual covenants and
undertakings of the Parties, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and legal
sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the Parties agree as follows:

        Section l.     Agreement to Lease. Unless this Agreement is terminated by a Party if and
as authorized below, each of the Parties covenants and agrees at Closing (defined below) to execute
and deliver the Ground Lease for the lease of the Site and the Walgreens Parcel upon resolution or
waiver of the Conditions as specified in this Agreement.
        Section 2.       Form of Ground Lease. During the Investigation Period (defined below),
the Parties will work together in good faith to finalize the terms of the Ground Lease (including,
but not limited to, the "Open Lease Terms" defined below), which will be substantially in the fonn
attached hereto as Exhibit "C'.

                  2.1.   Open Lease Terms. For purposes of this Agreement, the Open Lease Terms
are as follows:

                      (a)     Completion of "Blanks". Any "blanks" in the Ground Lease are
completed to the Parties' mutual satisfaction;

                        (b)    Extension Option. The Ground Lease is modified to address whether
and on what conditions Tenant should have an option to extend its term for up to an additional 15
years (for a total tenn of up to 75 years) as Tenant has requested and as Landlord is considering
granting on certain conditions. Throughout the Investigation Period the Parties will negotiate in
good faith to determine whether and on what conditions an extension option is to be included in
the Ground Lease. Failing any such agreement, there will be no extension option.

                       (c)     Rent. As provided in th,e LOI, although it currently is anticipated
that the "Full Rent" under the Ground Lease will be $700,000 per year, the actual Full Rent (and
the proportion of Full Rent charged during the initial rent period[s]) may be increased as
reasonably determined by Landlord in consultation with Tenant during the first three months of
the Investigation Period based on such appraisals or otber expert analyses of fair rental value as
Landlord may seek at its cost in order to assure that tlie fuH Rent fairly protects the public interest.

                       (d)     Leasehold Mortgaging. Section 13.02 of the Ground Lease
,concerning "Leasehold Mortgaging" will be modified as reasonably required by Tenant's lender(s)
 financing construction of the Project Improvements.

                        (e)    Independent Leases. Tenant desires for the Ground Lease to be
bifurcated into two separate standalone ground leases ("Independent Leases") covering the
"residential portion" described in Section 6.2(b) below and the "retail portion" described in Section
6.2(c) below. Landlord, however, believes that bifurcating the ground lease into separate
Independent Leases poses substantial risk to completion of the entire Project as intended by
Landlord and desires for there to be a single ground lease for the entire Site to better assure that
all Project Improvements will be constructed on the timetable and otherwise as contemplated by
the attached Ground Lease. Whether and on what conditions the Independent Leases will be
allowed will be subject to further negotiation by the Parties during the Investigation Period as the
Project's attributes become more clearly detennined and Tenant locates possible sources to finance
construction of the Project Improvements.

                2.2.    Execution and Recording of Ground Lease. Provided neither Pa1ty elects to
terminate this Agreement pursuant to any termination right provided in this Agreement, at Closing
the Parties will each execute and cause to be recorded the Ground Lease as negotiated and finalized
during the Investigation Period.

        Section 3.       Background Concerning Bonds and Possible Public Funding.

                  3.1.   Overview. In November 2024, City's voters approved a $30 million bond
 ("Bond") to (a) satisfy the costs of Bond issuance and financing Landlord's acquisition of the Site
 totaling over $14 Million, and (b) assist with the design and constmction of public improvements
 within the Project, including Plaza development costs, streetscape and infrastmcture
 improvements, utilities within any new internal roadway(s), demolition, and possibly funding for
.any public Parking Structure(s) if and as contemplated by the Definitive Documents. Further, the
 Site is part of a Landlord-designated "Community Reinvestment Area," making tax increment
 financing ("TIF') and other revenue tools potentially available.

               3.2.    Use of Available Bond Funds. Throughout the Investigation Period,
Landlord will consult with Tenant as Landlord formulates a budget for the best use of the
remaining approximately $15 Million in Bond funds (the "Available Bond Funds") taking into
consideration the following priorities:

                        (a)   First, Landlord's cost of terminating the Dollar Tree Lease,
relocating its tenant, and otherwise as necessary to make that portion of the Site available for
development;

                      (b)     Second, Landlord's cost of acquiring unencumbered fee title to the
Walgreens Parcel, including tenninating th.e Walgreens Leases, relocating its tenant, and otherwise
as necessary to make the Walgreens Parcel available for development;

                      (c)    Third, Landlord 's cost of planning and constructing the Plaza
(defined below) that would serve as a focal point of th.e Project and all improvements thereon as
contemplated by the Project's approv,ed Final Site Plan (defined below);

                     (d)    Fourth, to defray Ten.ant's cost of Site demolition and grading, as
reasonably approved by Landlord;

                    (e)        Fifth, to defray Tenant's cost of Site utilities, as reasonably
approved by Landlord;

                      (f)     Sixth, to defray Tenant's cost of internal roadway, walkways,
surface parking, landscaped areas, and similar. as reasonably approved by Landlord;

                       (g)     Seventh, to defray Tenant's cost of any Parking Stmcture (defined
below) on the Site, as reasonably approved by Landlord; and

                        (h)     Eighth, to defray Tenant's cost of any other Project infrastruchire
that will be available for public access and enjoy1nent, as reasonably approved by Landlord.

The actual allocation of the Available Bond Funds will be detailed in the Development Agreement.

               3.3.     Possible TIF Funding. TIF funding may be made available for permissible
Project purposes as and if legally permissible and approved by Landlord and the subject taxing
entities. The availability of TIF funding will require demonstration of a resulting public benefit
such as parking rights, use rights, additional rent under the Ground Lease, or similar. Throughout
the Investigation Period Landlord will use its reasonable best efforts to obtain approval of TIF
funding by the subject taxing entities as soon as reasonably possible. If TIF Funding is granted,
the Development Agreement will address all pertinent information such as allocation of the
resulting funding and additional documentation that may be required to evidence the necessary
public benefit. Tenant will fully and timely cooperate with all of Landlord 's efforts to obtain TIF
Funding.

               3.4.    Possible Other Public Funding. Throughout the Investigation Period,
Landlord will use its reasonable best efforts to locate and obtain from or through separate
governmental entities such other public funds (such as TRCC funding) ("Other Public Funds") as
may be available to apply toward Landlord' s cost of completing items 3.2(a)-(c), inclusive, above.
If Other Public Funds are obtained, then the resulting savings of Available Bond Funds will be
made available to defray Tenant's cost of completing items 3.2(d)-(h), inclusive, above, as
reasonably, mutually agreed by the Parties. Tenant will fully and timely cooperate with all of
Landlord's efforts to obtain Other Public Funds.

               3.5.    Cooperation in Seeking Public Funding. Throughout the Investigation
Period the Parties will fully and expeditiously cooperate with each other to seek and obtain such
TIF funding and Other Public Funds (collectively, "Public Funding") as may be available from or
through other governmental entities to defray development costs associated with the Project.

       Section 4.      Conditions of Landlord's Obligation to Lease.

               4.1.    Landlord's Conditions. Landlord's obligation to enter into the Lease and to
perforn1 its obligations thereunder is subject to fulfillment (or, as to 4.l(d]-[f] below, waiver
thereof by Landlord in writing) of the following conditions ("Landlord's Conditions") before end
of the Investigation Period:

                       (a)    Acquisition of Walgreens Parcel. Landlord will have acquired fee
simple title to the Walgreens Parcel on terms and conditions reasonably acceptabl,e to Landlord,
as evidenced by the recording of a deed conveying fee simple title to Landlord;

                      (b)     Termination of Wal greens Leases. The Walgreens Leases will have
been terminated and Walgreens (and any successor tenant or subtenant) will have exited the Site,
on terms and conditions reasona,bly acceptable to Landlord and Landlord will have taken exclusive
possession and control of the Walgreens Parcel;

                     (c)    Termination of Dollar Tree Lease. The Dollar Tree Lease will l1ave
been tenninated and Dollar Tree will have exited the Site, on terms and conditions reasonably
acceptable to Landlord and Landlord will have taken exclusive possession and control of the
subject premises.

Commencing on the Effective Date and continuing throughout the Investigation Period Landlord
will use its commercially reasonable, diligent best efforts to pursue and complete acquisition of
the Walgreens Parcel and termination of the Walgreens Leases and the Dollar Tree Lease.

                     (d)      Approval of Final Site Plan. Through its public process City will
have approved the Final Site Plan in such fonn as Landlord reasonably deems acceptable;

                     (e)     Definitive Documents. The Development Agreement and other
Definitive Documents principally as summarized herein and in the LOI will have been negotiated
and reasonably approved by the Parties for mutual execution and delivery at Closing; and

                       (f)    Tenant 's Performance. Tenant will have materially complied with
all of Tenant's obligations to be performed hereunder.

                4.2.    Landlord's Satisfaction Notice. Upon Landlord' s satisfaction or waiver, as
applicable, of Landlord's Conditions 4.l (a)-(t), above, Landlord will promptly deliver written
notice thereof to Tenant ("Landlord's Satisfaction Notice"), along with any written documentation
of the same reasonably requested by Tenant. After delivery of Landlord ' s Satisfaction Notice, the
tenu " Site" will include the Walgreens Parcel. If Landlord fails to so deliver Landlord' s
Satisfaction Notice by l November 2028 (the "Acquisition Deadline" ), however, then such failure
shall not constitute a default by Landlord hereunder but shall entitle either Party to tenninate this
Agreement upon at least ten days' prior written notice and opportunity to cure or waive to the other
Party, in which event Landlord and Tenant shall have no further obligations, one to the other, with
respect to the subject matter of this Agreement, other than those items that expressly survive any
tennination of this Agreement.

        Section 5.     Investigation Period.

                5.1.   Due Diligence. Commencing on the Effective Date and continuing until the
date that is:

                       (a)     12 months after the Acquisition Deadline if Landlord 's Satisfaction
Notice is delivered by the second anniversary of the Effective Date, or

                       (b)    Six months after the Acquisition Deadline if Landlord's Satisfaction
Notice is delivered between the second and third anniversaries of the Effective Date,

(the "Investigation Period"), Trenant and its employees, contractors and agents will have the right
to enter the Site (including the Walgreens Parcel after Landlord acquires the Walgreens Parcel, with
prior written consent of the tenants of the Walgreens Parcel) to conduct at its cost its own due
diligence investigations, and otheiwise conduct its own due diligence with respect to the transaction
contemplated by this Agreement and the LOI, which may include, without limitation:

                       (v)    Tenant's review of the condition of title to the Site and the Walgreens
Parcel, provided that Tenant will pay the cost of any leasehold policy oftitle insurance desired by
Tenant:

                        (w)     Tenant's review of the physical condition of the Site and the
Walgreens Parcel, such as soil and ground water conditions, the stability and load-bearing capacity
of the soil; the presence of hazardous material on the Site and the Walgreens Parcel or the potential
for migration of hazardous mat,erial onto the Site and the Walgreens Parcel from other properties;
archeological and geological matters; and any other matters reasonably deemed appropriate by
Tenant;

                       (x)  Tenant's review of the Terminable Leases and confirmation that all
such leases encumbering the Site are terminable upon no more than 90 days' prior written notice
to the tenants thereunder;

                    (y)     Tenant's confinnation that Tenant will be penuitt,ed to utilize the
Available Bond Funds as provided in Section 3.2 above; and

                       (z)     Tenant's review of any existing plans, surveys, specifications,
environmental studies, title work and similar items that may be in Landlord's possession re.lating
to the Site and Walgreens Parcel, which Landlord will provide to Tenant promptly upon written
request.

Tenant's right to enter the interior portions of the Site occupied by current tenants always is subject
to Landlord's prior approval, which will not be withheld or delayed unreasonably. Tenant's right
to enter the Walgreens Parcel always is subject to Landlord's prior acquisition of fee simple title
to that parcel and the prior consent of Landlord and the tenants under the Walgreens Leases. Tenant
will, at its cost, promptly repair any damage to the Site and Walgreens Parcel caused by Tenant's
entry and inspection. Landlord will, without material cost, reasonably cooperate with and facilitate
Tenant's due diligence investigations, including providing copies of such surveys, third-party
studies, reports, underlying lease documents, and the like as may be in Landlord's possession or
reasonably accessible to Landlord within 15 days after Tenant's written request.

               5.2.     Title and Survev Review.

                        (a)     During the Investigation Period, Tenant may at its expense obtain a
survey for all of the Site and the Walgreens Parcel by either updating the survey provided by
Landlord (if any) or causing to be prepared a new survey for all of the Site. The most recent survey
for the Site and the Walgreens Parcel, whether such survey is a new or updated survey prepared
for the benefit of or commissioned by Tenant, or any previous survey provided by Landlord, will
be referred to herein as the "Survey." Landlord promptly shall provide to Tenant upon Tenant's
written request copies of all surveys of the Site and the Walgreens Parcel obtained by Landlord.

                       (b)     Tenant will have the right at any time prior to the expiration of the
Investigation Period to review and to object, in writing, to any easements, liens, encumbrances,
survey items, or other exceptions or matters in the title commitment obtained by Tenant (the "Title
Commitment") or shown on the Survey (collectively, the "Title Objections"). If Tenant fails to
timely object to anything in the Title Commihnent or Survey within the Investigation Period, then
the condition of title to the Site and Walgreens Parcel reflected on the Title Commitment and
Survey will be deemed approved. If Title Objections are made within the Investigation Period,
Landlord will detennine as to each of the Title Objections, whether or not Landlord is willing or
able to eliminate.

Within 15 days after receipt of any Title Objections, Landlord will notify Tenant in writing as to
those Title Objections that Landlord will cause to be eliminated or insured over. If Landlord does
not timely respond to such Title Objections, then Landlord will be deemed to have elected to not
cure such Title Objections. Landlord will be obligated to eliminate any deeds of trust, mortgages,
judgment liens, mechanics' liens, materialmen's liens and other monetary liens placed on the Site
and Walgreens Parcel by Landlord. If Landlord acquires fee title to the Walgreens Parcel and
succeeds in tenninating the Walgreens Leases, Landlord will diligently pursue elimination of any
such financial encumbrances on title to the Walgreens Parcel.

If Landlord's written notice indicates that Landlord is unable or unwilling to eliminate any Title
Objections upon terms acceptable to Tenant in Tenant's reasonable discretion, then Tenant may,
prior to the expiration of the Investigation Period, either (i) waive the Title Objections that
Landlord was unwilling or unable to cure, or (ii) terminate this Agreement by giving Landlord
written notice of termination, whereupon neither Tenant nor Landlord will have any further right,
liability, duty or obligation under this Agreement, except for agreements or covenants that
specifically survive tennination. For clarification purposes, Tenant will not be pennitted to object
to the following title exceptions shown on Schedule B-II of Commitment Number 2596085KH
dated 13 August 2025 issued by Old Republic National Title Insurance Company: 1-7, 8 (as to
current year property taxes), 9-23, 24 (as to current year property taxes), 25-36, 37-38 (unless a
reasonable time has passed after Landlord acquired fee simple title to the Walgreens Parcel), 39
(unless a reasonable time has passed after tennination of the Walgreens Leases), and 40.

               5.3.   New Encumbrances. If the Title Commitment or Survey is re-issued or
updated after the Investigation Period, Tenant shall have the right to object (each, a "New
Objection") to any additional matter disclosed or contained in any such update that was not shown
in the Title Commitment, was not consented to by Tenant and adversely affects in any material
way the ownership, use or operation of, or title to, the Site and Walgreens Parcel (notwithstanding
the passage ofthe Investigation Period). IfLandlord is unable or unwilling to cause any such New
Objection to be removed by Closing, Tenant shall have the right either to (i) waive such New
Objection and proceed to Closing, or (ii) terminate this Agreement, in which event Landlord and
Tenant shall have no further obligations, one to the other, with respect to the subject matter of this
Agreement, other than those items that expressly survive any termination of this Agreement.

                5.4.    Owners Affidavit. At the Closing, Landlord shall execute and deliver an
owner's title affidavit sufficient for the Tenant's escrow agent to issue to Tenant a leasehold policy
of titte insurance in the fonn reasonably required by Tenant, a standard gap indemnity, and any
otl1er docum.ent or undertaking reasonably required to cure or remove the exceptions to title that
Land.lord is obligated to cure or remove or that Landlord has agreed to cure or remove as a part of
the title review process pursuant to Section 5.2.

        Section 6.      Development Agreement. During tlile Investigation Period and concurrent
with Tenant seeking its Entitlements (defined below) the Parties will negotiate the form of the
Development Agreement as provided in the LOI and this Agreement to outline their additional
respective rights and duties concerning development of th1e Project. Although Tenant may
encumber its leasehold and its vertical improvements in the Project, to assure survival of the
Parties' r·espective rights and obligations under the Development Agreement, the Development
Agreement will be recorded as a first-priority encumbrance on the Project and will be in effect for
the entire duration of the Ground Lease. Among other provisions, th:e Parties anticipate that the
Development Agreement will address the following:

                6. l.   Site Planning and Entitlements. Fonnulation of the Final Site Plan as
provided in Section 6.2 and related documents for the Project that are reasonably acceptable to
both Landlord and Tenant and approved by City's advisory and governing bodies, such as its
administrative staff, planning commission, architectural review commission, and city council, all
as required or reasonably deemed advisable by Landlord pursuant to applicable statutes,
ordinances and mies ("legal requirements"). In that regard, Tenant acknowledges that (i) City in
its reasonable discretion in compliance with legal requirements, and not Landlord, will control all
aspects of such entitlement process, including zoning, conditional use, subdivision and other
processes that may be required under applicable laws to allow redevelopment of the Site to proceed
as contemplated by the Development Agreement; and (ii) City may elect to create a site-specific
zoning designation for the Site that will (A) be subject to approval by City's planning commission,
architectural review commission and city council; (B) establish approved site plans, uses and other
development standards; and (C) govern future changes and modifications to the use of the Site.
Landlord will endeavor to facilitate and coordinate the necessary approvals by Landlord and such
other public bodies in an effort to diminish the overall time needed for such review and approval
to the extent reasonably possible.
                6.2.    Final Site Plan. That the Parties will cooperate together and expeditiously
work to formulate a mutually-acceptable comprehensive, detailed final site plan, building
elevations, materials schedules, and similar items affecting the "look and feel" of the Project
(collectively, the "Final Site Plan") and other entitlements for the Project that are approved by the
City incorporating (among others) the following:

                       (a)     A public plaza space for public gathering, recreation, entertainment,
City events, etc., consisting of approximately two acres in size and related pavilion and
improvements (collectively, the "Plaza"). Both the Plaza and central roadway(s) through the Site
would be public amenities. Planning and design of the Plaza and Project common areas will be a
collaborative eff01t that will be initiated by Landlord as soon as reasonably possible after the
Effective Date and thereafter diligently pursued by Landlord with Tenant's collaboration and
input. Construction of the Plaza will be at Landlord' s cost utilizing some of the Available Bond
Funds while construction of all other infrastructure and amenities with be at Tenant's cost as
described in the Development Agreement. Roadways throughout the Site will be designed for slow
speeds, have on-street parking, and will prioritize pedestrian and non-vehicular traffic.

                        (b)    An appropriate mix of retail uses for the non-public areas of the
Project that are compatible with the City's and Landlord's master plans and vision for the Site that
will result in a vibrant and active town center development. Massing and footprint sizes will be
designed to support various types of uses while ensuring that massing and overall densities are
compatible with the City's and Landlord's vision for the Project. For ground-level uses in
particular, preference will be given to a mix of commercial and retail uses that activate the Site.
The Project will contain approximately 100,000 - 140,000 square feet of commercial uses in
approximately six buildings fronting Ft. Union Blvd. and 2300 East; residential town-home
dwellings as described in Section 6.2(c) below; the Plaza; and other amenities, buildings and
improvements (collectively, "Improvements").

                       (c)    First-class quality "for rent" residential dwellings. Landlord and
Tenant anticipate this portion of the Project will include no more than eighty (80) residential
townhome units. Incorporation of more than 80 residential townhome units in the Project will
require justification to, and prior review and approval by, Landlord and City (through its
development approval process). Any criteria for such approval may be detailed in the Development
Agreement.

                6.3.    Parking. For ample parking facilities to be designed and constructed to
supp01t the Project's residents, retail customers, and visitors. Final stall counts shall be determined
based on the mix of uses, market demand, and City requirements. Any parking stmcture(s)
("Parking Structure") will be constructed, owned and maintained by Tenant and Tenant will
attempt in good faith to include creative design options for screening and limiting impact to
adjacent areas. Parking Structure massing will follow the same height and massing restrictions as
other buildings on the Site. Available Bond Funds will be made available to defray Tenant's cost
of constructing any Parking Structure as provided in Section 3.2. A public use easement agreement
(the "Easement Agreement") prepared by Landlord and reasonably approved by Tenant will
provide, among other things, for public parking throughout the Project in mutually agreed-upon
areas, including in any Parking Structure constructed in whole or in part with Available Bond
Funds or TIF proceeds. Tenant may seek Landlord's permission for limited "premium parking" in
the Project to seek additional revenue and attract premium commercial tenants.
               6.4.    Demolition and Grading. For demolition of existing building and Site
elements, and Site grading. Tenant will use commercially reasonable efforts to minimize excessive
grading. The Development Agreement will obligate Tenant to raze and grade the entire Site
(including the Plaza) at its cost, provided that Available Bond Funds will be made available to
defray Tenant's cost of Site demolition and grading as provided in Section 3.2.

               6.5.   Site Utilities. For appropriate utilities (electricity, natural gas, culinary
water, sanitary sewer, storm drainage, etc.) to be installed throughout the Project, with
consideration given for water/sewer/storm drain capacity needs on the Site. Tenant will be
responsible for the cost of Site utilities, provided that Available Bond Funds shall be made
available to defray Tenant's cost of Site utilities as provided in Section 3.2.

               6.6.   Subdivision. For Tenant's possible subdivision of the Site into lots as
reasonably deemed necessary by Tenant and approved by Landlord and City. The Plaza will be
subdivided as a separate Lot if desired by Landlord, at Landlord's cost.

               6.7.    Development Schedule. The Development Agreement will specify
deadlines for the various development milestones of the Project, including approval of the Final
Site Plan, granting by the City of necessary entitlements, and substantial completion of
construction and readying for occupancy of the Project's various buildings. The Parties
acknowledge that phasing of the Project is subject to market conditions, and that reasonable
modifications to the development schedule will be pennitted, as mutually agreed by the parties
under the Development Agreement. Construction of the Plaza will occur as reasonably required
by Landlord in consultation with Tenant and will not necessarily follow constrnction of any of the
other Project Improvements in order to, for example, provide a staging area for construction of
those other Project Improvements.

               6.8.     Construction Standards. For all Project Improvements to be constructed in
accordance with Landlord- and City-approved plans and specifications, by licensed, bonded
contractors in a first-class manner in compliance with all applicable building codes and legal
requirements, subject only to such third-party leasehold financing as Tenant reasonably finds
appropriate.

                6.9.    Building Height. The Development Agreement will provide that
commercial buildings in the Project shall be limited to no more than two stories in height with an
attractive mix of pitched and flat roofs including architectural features, such as chimneys, parapets,
and/or tower-type elements. No building in the Project (residential or commercial) will exceed 35
feet in height measured from the average existing grade of the Site adjacent to the existing abutting
residential areas to the highest point of the building. Based on an ALT A survey obtained by
Landlord the average elevation of the Site is 4,637.50 feet; consequently, Agency agrees that the
maximum building height in the Project shall be 4,672.50 feet subject to City approval. The height
measurement of a proposed building will be provided and clearly labeled during building plan
submittal and certified by a licensed engineer.

                 6.10. Construction Costs. Except for the Plaza, as discussed herein, the
Development Agreement will provide that Tenant will pay all fees and costs to entitle and ready
the Site for redevelopment, to construct all Improvements on the Site, and thereafter to maintain
all aspects of the Project throughout the term of the Ground Lease.

               6.1 l.   Public Funding. For possible public funding for Project purposes as
described in Section 3, above.

                6.12. Public Areas. For the Parties' entry into the Easement Agreement as part of
the Definitive Documents. Among other things, the Easement Agreement will provide an express
easement in City's favor assuring that the Plaza is available for public use during all times (up to
24/7/365) desired by City under such terms, conditions, rules and the like as City reasonably may
specify from time to time. City's right to use the Plaza pursuant to such easement shall be primary
and superior to all other use rights with respect to the Plaza, any or all of which shall be subject to
control or prohibition by City. Subject to City's primary right to control use of the Plaza, the
Development Agreement or the Easement Agreement will further provide that City and Tenant
(and any owners association or similar from time to time in effect in the Project) may cooperate in
programming use of the Plaza and other public areas of the Project to facilitate the staging of events
such as festivals, outdoor marketplaces, community celebrations and the like designed to activate
and continually freshen public visitation and use of the Project.

                6.13. Other Definitive Documents. For the Parties' entry into such other
Definitive Documents as either Party reasonably may require in order to more fully and accurately
document in written fonn their respective rights and obligations concerning the Project and to
better assure the efficient functioning of the Project in a cohesive integrated manner.

                6.14. Additional Provisions. The Development Agreement will include such
additional commercially reasonable provisions as Landlord or Tenant may reasonably propose to
the other Party.

       Section 7.      Tenant to Seek Entitlements.

                7 .1.  Entitlements. Before the end of the Investigation Period on such timetable
as Tenant deems appropriate Tenant will plan its redevelopment of the Site and pursue and obtain
approval for all entitlements, zoning, use, occupancy, licenses, pennit, submittals, approvals,
consents, or actions related to the development, use, occupancy, and/or operation of the Site (the
"Entitlements"). In furtherance of the foregoing, the parties will satisfy the following (the
"Entitlements Conditions") (Landlord's Conditions and the Entitlement Conditions are,
collectively, the "Conditions"):

                       (a)     Subdivision. Preparation of a final plat that, when recorded, will
subdivide the Plaza as a separate lot and the balance of the Site into such lots as Tenant reasonably
deems necessary to facilitate Tenant's financing and construction of the Project Improvements (the
"Final Plat"). Landlord will pursue subdivision of the Plaza at its own cost, Tenant will consult
with Landlord while preparing the Final Plat, and the Parties will work together in a mutually
cooperative manner to maximize the value and general aesthetics of the Site, taking into
consideration Landlord's desire to enhance the general public's use of the Plaza. The Final Plat
will be recorded at Closing and will show the Plaza as a separate lot as reasonably specified by
Landlord.

                       (b)     Negotiation of Forms of Definitive Documents. The Parties will
negotiate in good faith to finalize the fonns of the Definitive Documents to be executed (and
recorded, as applicable) at Closing, which will include, without limitation:

                                 (i)   The Development Agreement;
                              (ii)    The Easement Agreement, which (among other things) will
provide for public use of the Project's parking facilities while using the Plaza, for cooperative
programming of use of the Plaza (including Tenant's right to occasionally use the Plaza for certain
events) and for an equitable division of maintenance responsibilities for the Plaza; and

                                 (iii)   If desired, a master declaration of covenants, conditions and
restrictions (and any sub-declarations desired by Tenant) governing the commercial site, the Plaza
and the residential site, as applicable (collectively, "CC&Rs") to be recorded after recording of the
Development Agreement, the Ground Lease, and the Easement Agreement;

Each of items 7. l(b)(i)-(iii) shall be expressly tenninable (and omitted as title encumbrances on
the Site) by the then owner of fee simple title to the Site at any time following termination of the
Ground Lease.

                     (c)     Approval of Acceptable Final Site Plan. Etc. Through its public
process, City will have approved the Final Site Plan and granted all zoning, use, and other
entitlements needed for the desired redevelopment of the Site on such tenns and conditions as
Tenant reasonably may approve.

                      (d)     TIF, Etc. TIF and other public funding for permissible Project
purposes as and iflegally permissible as reasonably desired by Tenant will have been approved by
Landlord and the relevant taxing entities.

               7.2.    Landlord Cooperation with Entitlement Activities. Landlord will timely
cooperate in good faith with Tenant's efforts to pursue approval of the Entitlements before Closing,
as reasonably detennined by Tenant. Landlord's cooperation will include without limitation (a)
execution of any owners affidavits or similar instruments required by City or other authority
related to Tenant's pursuit of the Entitlements in forms reasonably acceptable to Landlord, and (b)
taking any other commercially reasonable action requested by Tenant in its pursuit of the
Entitlements. Landlord's cooperation shall not include, however, incurring any 111ate1ial liability
or cost not expressly approved in advance by Landlord.

                7.3.     Tenant's Satisfaction Notice. Upon satisfaction or waiver of the Entitlement
Conditions, Tenant will promptly deliver written notice thereof to Landlord ("Tenant 's
Satisfaction Notice") along with any written documentation of the same reasonably requested by
Landlord. If Tenant fails to so deliver Tenant's Satisfaction Notice within five business days after
the end of the Investigation Period, however, then either Party may terminate this Agreement upon
at least ten days' prior written notice and opportunity to cure or waive to the other Party, in which
event Landlord and Tenant shall have no further obligations, one to the other, with respect to the
subject matter of this Agreement, other than those items that expressly survive any tennination of
this Agreement.

       Section 8.      Closing.

               8.1.    Closing Date. Closing and consummation ("Closing") of the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement will occur, if at all, no later than ten business days after the last
to occur of (i) delivery of Tenant's Satisfaction Notice to Landlord accompanied by Tenant's
written waiver of any uncompleted Entitlement Conditions, or (ii) delivery of Landlord's
Satisfaction Notice to Tenant accompanied by Landlord's written waiver of any uncompleted
Landlord's Conditions in Section 4.1 (d)-(f), provided that Closing must occur, if at all, within one
month after the end of the Investigation Period. The actual date of Closing ("Closing Date") will
be at a place and time, and on a business day, mutually agreed upon by the Parties.

                8.2.   Closing Deliveries. At Closing, the Parties will execute and record, as
applicable, the following documents in the following order:

                       (a)     The Development Agreement;

                       (b)     The Ground Lease;

                       (c)     The Final Plat;

                       (d)     The Easement Agreement;

                       (e)     The CC&Rs; and

                      (t)    Subsequently, such other instruments and documents as may be
reasonably requested by the parties or reasonably necessary to effect or carry out the purposes of
this Agreement.

               8.3.    Prorations and Closing Costs. Except as expr,essly set forth in this
Agreement, each party must bear its own costs (including attorneys' fees) in connection with its
negotiation, due diligence investigation, and conduct of the Agreement.

                        (a)     Landlord shall pay any repayment penalties and other amounts
necessary to release any deeds of trnst, mortgages, judgment liens, mechanics' liens,
materiaJlmen' s liens and otlter liens to the extent required under Section 5.2;

                         (b)     Tenant shall pay (i) the cost of the Survey, (ii) the cost of the Title
Policy and, if desired by Tenant, upgrading the Title Policy to an extended coverage Title Policy
and/or the cost of all title endorsements issued in connection with the Title Policy, (iii) the cost of
recording new liens and encw11brances against the Site created by Tenant, and (iv) any transfer
taxes or local docwnentary stamps.

                      (c)    Taxes and assessments shall be prorated as of the Closing Date.
Landlord shall pay any rollback taxes associated with the Site.

               8.4    Possession. On the Closing Date, Landlord shall deliver full, sole, vacant
and exclusive possession of the Site to Tenant.

        Section 9.      Termination. This Agreement may be terminated as follows:

                9.l.   Bv Tenant. Tenant may freely tenninate this Agreement upon written notice
that is received by Landlord within one business day after the end of the Investigation Period.

               9.2.   Breach or Bankruptcv. Either Party may terminate this Agreement upon
written notice to the other Party upon the occurrence of any material breach of any of the
representations, warranties or covenants of the other Party occurring on or prior to Closing which
breach is not cured within the longer of any cure period specified elsewhere in the Agreement or
twenty (20) days after written notice and opportunity to cure from the non-breaching Party to the
Breaching party. Further, if either Party files for bankruptcy, voluntarily or involuntarily, on or
before the Closing Date that is not dismissed within 60 days after filing the other Party may within
30 days thereafter tem1inate this Agreement by written notice giving at least 30 days' opportunity
to achieve dismissal of such filing.

                9.3.    Failure of Condition. This Agreement also is tenninable as provided in
Section 4.2 (due to failure of Landlord's Conditions and Landlord's Satisfaction Notice), Section
7.3 (due to failure of the Entitlement Conditions and Tenant's Satisfaction Notice), and Section
8.1 (due to failure to timely close following failure to complete or waive the Conditions). Upon
any tennination under this Section 9.3, Landlord shall reimburse 50% of Tenant's verified out-of-
pocket costs to unrelated third parties incurred before delivery of Landlord's Satisfaction Notice
(if any) in pursuing the Entitlements, up to a maximum reimbursement of $200,000.

In the event of tennination of this Agreement, and except as provided in Section l 0 below, neither
Party shaH have any further liability hereunder, except such tennination shall not excuse or
eliminate any breaches of this Agreement which have occurred prior to such tennination, nor shall
it excuse Landlord 's reimbursement obligation which shall survive termination.

       Section l 0.    Default; Remedies. If a Party fails to p.e rfonn any of its material obligations
here1mder and such condition is not cured within 20 days after written notice from the other Party
specifying such default, the defaulting Party shall be in default hereunder and the non-defaulting
Party shaU be entitled to proceed at law and in equity to enforce its rights under this Agreement,
provided that the non-defaulting Party shall not in any event be permitted to seek or receive any
punitive, consequential or special damages.

        Section 11.   Landlord Covenants. Landlord covenants and agrees that during the
period from the Effective Date through and including the Closing or the earlier termination of this
Agreement:

              (a)     Land.lord will timely pay and perfom1 its obligations in all material respects
under any contract affecting or encumbering the Site.

               (b)      Excluding (i) contracts in co1mection with Landlord' s efforts to tenninate
the Walgreens Leases, the Dollar Tree Lease, and the Terminable Leases affecting the Site and the
Walgreens Parcel, (ii) Landlord's own financing arrangements (whether bonding or secured loans)
concerning Landlord's interest in such realty, (iii) any other contract involving Landlord's
ownership of fee title to such realty which will not adversely affect Tenant's rights under this
Agreement, and (iv) any contract Landlord is required to sign under applicable law, Landlord shall
not enter into any contract that reasonably may adversely affect Tenant's anticipated leasehold
interest in the Project without Tenant's prior written consent (collectively, "Additional
Contracts"), which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. If such
request for consent to an Additional Contract is made by Landlord and Tenant fails to object in
writing within five (5) business days after receipt thereof, Tenant shall be deemed to have approved
said Additional Contract.

               (c)    Landlord shall operate, maintain and manage the Site in a manner consistent
with Landlord's past practices with respect to the Site; provided, however, Landlord shall not be
obligated to perfonn any capital improvements or any deferred maintenance repairs.
               (d)     Landlord shall timely pay before delinquency all taxes, assessments and
charges affecting the Site arising during the period from the Effective Date through and including
the Closing Date and shall maintain in full force and effect and pay all premiums on all liability
and other insurance policies currently covering the Site and shall not reduce the amount of
coverage of any such policies.

        Section 12.    Notice. Except as otherwise required by law, any notice, demand, or request
given in com1ection with this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be given by personal delivery,
overnight courier service, facsimile, or United States certified mail, return receipt requested,
postage or other delivery charge prepaid, addressed to Seller or Buyer at the following addresses
(or at such other address as Tenant, Landlord or the person receiving copies may designate in
writing given in accordance with this Section 12):

       Tenant:                 ONYX DEVELOPMENT, LLC
                               THRIVE DEVELOPMENT, LLC
                               Attn:
                                     - - - - - - -- --
                               7585 Union Park Avenue, Ste. 200
                               Cottonwood Heights, UT 8404 7
                               Phone: - - - - - - - --
                               Email: - - - - - - - - -

       With a copy to:         KIRTON MCCONKIE
                               Attn: A. Chase Nielsen
                               50 East South Temple, Suite 400
                               Salt Lake City, UT 84l l l
                               Phone: (80 l) 328-3600
                               Email: cnielsen@kmclaw.com

       Landlord:               COTTONWOOD HElGITTS CDRA
                               Attn: Chief Executive Officer
                               2277 East Bengal Blvd.
                               Cottonwood Heights, UT 8412 l
                               Phone: (80 l) 944-7000
                               Email: jgerber@ch.utah.gov

       With a copy to:         TOPHAM LEGAL
                               Attn: Wm. Shane Topham
                               4930 Fairview Drive
                               Holladay, UT 84117
                               Phone: (801)808-6325
                               Email: wst@tophamlegal.com

Notice may also be given by e-mail, provided that an additional copy of the notice is given by one
of the other permitted means set forth above. Notice shall be deemed to have been received on the
date on which notice is delivered if notice is given by personal delivery or email, on the next
business day after delivery to the overnight courier service if such a service is used, and three days
after the date of deposit in the mail if mailed.

       Section 13.     General Provisions. The following provisions also are integral parts of this
Agreement:

               13. l. Survival. The respective obligations of the Parties hereunder and all
representations and warranties made in this Agreement, all exhibits hereto, and all certificates and
documents delivered pursuant hereto, will survive the execution and delivery of the Lease and the
other documents and agreements, and any closing(s), contemplated in this Agreement.

                13.2. Bindin¥ Ar:reement. This Agreement will be binding upon and will inure to
the benefit of the successors and assigns of the respective parties hereto.

              13.3. Captions. The headings used in this Agreement are inserted for reference
purposes only and will not be deemed to define, limit, extend, describe, or affect in any way the
meaning, scope or interpretation of any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement or the intent
hereof.

               13.4. Counterparts: Electronic Deliverv. This Agreement may be signed in any
number of counterparts with the same effect as if the signatures upon any counte,rpart were upon
the same instrument. All signed counterparts will be deemed to be one original. This Agreement
may be executed and delivered electronically by facsimile, pdf, or similar transmission with th:e
same legal effect as manual execution and physical delivery.

              13.5. Severabilitv. The provisions of this Agreement are severable, and should
any provision hereof be void, voidable, unenforceable or invalid, such void, voidable,
unenforceable or invalid provision will not affect the other provisions of this Agreement.

               13.6. Waiver o{Breach. Any waiver by either party of any breach of any kind or
character whatsoever by the other, wltether such be direct or implied, will not be construed as a
continuing waiver of, or consent to, any subsequent breach of this Agreement.

                13.7. Cumulative Remedies. The rights and remedies of the parties hereto will be
construed cumulatively, and none of such rights and remedies will be exclusive of, or in lieu or
limitation of, any other right, remedy or priority allowed by law.

                13.8. Amendment. This Agreement may not be modified except by an instrument
in writing signed by the parties hereto.

               13.9. Interpretation. This Agreement will be interpreted, construed and enforced
according to the substantive laws of the state of Utah.

               13 .I 0. Notice. All notices provided for herein will be in writing and will be given
by first class mail, certified or registered, postage prepaid, addressed to the parties at their
respective addresses set forth above or at such other address(es) as may be designated by a party
from time to time in writing.

               13 .11. Expenses. Each of the Parties will be responsible for all its own costs and
expenses incurred at any time in connection with this Agreement, including expenses of its
advisors, agents, attorneys and other representatives.

                13 .12. Brokers. Landlord represents and warrants to Tenant that no broker or
finder acted for it or is entitled to any fee or commission in respect ofthe transactions contemplated
hereby. Landlord will indemnify and hold Tenant hannless in respect of any breach of the
foregoing representation and warranty. Similarly, Tenant represents and wan-ants to Landlord that
no broker or finder acted for Tenant or is entitled to any fee or commission in respect of the
transactions contemplated hereby. Tenant will indemnify and hold Landlord hannless in respect
of any breach of the foregoing representation and warranty.

               13 .13. Time ofEssence. Time is the essence of this Agreement.

                13.14. Assignment. Except as otherwise specified herein, Tenant will not assign its
rights or delegate its duties hereunder to any third party without Landlord's prior written consent,
which Landlord may withhold in its sole, absolute discretion. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
Tenant shall have the right to assign this Agreement upon written notice to Landlord to any entity
solely managed and operationally controlled by the Original Tenant or the Original Principals
without having to obtain the prior consent of Landlord, provided such successor entity (the
"Successor") assumes Tenant's obligations under this Agreement and at least 20 days before the
effective date of such assignment Tenant provides to Landlord (a) written notice of such
assignment, and (b) a written opinion of Tenant's counsel (Kirton McConkie) in such fonn as may
be reasonably acceptable to Landlord that the Original Tenant or the Original Principals, as
applicable, are and through Closing will remain in sole managerial and operational control of the
Successor. In all events, whether or not Landlord has consented to an assignment, the Original
Tenant shall remain liable for the fuU and timely performance of Tenant's obligations under this
Agreement.

In this Section 13.14, the "Original Tenan!" means collectively Onyx Development, LLC and
Th1ive Development, LLC (two Utah limited liability companies who collectively were the
successful responder to Landlord's request for proposals concerning development of tlie Project
and collectively were the "Developer" under the LOI), and the "Original Principals" means any
group of the individuals or entities who on 25 July 2025 were the majority equity owners of the
Original Tenant.

                 l 3. l 5. Attornevs' Fees. If there is any litigation between Landlord and Tenant to
enforce or interpret any provisions or rights under this Agreement, the unsuccessful party in such
litigation, as determined by the court, shall pay to the successful party, as detem1ined by the court,
reasonable costs and expenses, including but not limited to reasonable attorneys' fees, incurred by
the successful party, such costs, expenses and attorneys' fees to be detennined by the court sitting
without a jury.

                13.16. Authorization. Each individual executing this Agreement does thereby
represent and warrant to any other individual so signing (and to each other entity for which another
individual is signing) that the individual has been duly authorized to deliver this Agreement in the
capacity and for the entity that is set forth where he signs.


                                  [Signatures on Following Page]
     DATED effective the date first written above.

                                         LANDLORD:

                                         COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS COMMUNITY
ATTEST:                                  DEVELOPMENT AND RENE,VAL AGENCY


By:--- - - - - - - - - -                 By:--- - - - - - - - - - - - --
 Tiffany Janzen, Secretary                Jared Gerber, Executive Director


                                         By: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
                                             Michael T. Weichers, Board Chair


                                         TENANT:

                                         ONYX DEVELOPMENT, LLC,
                                         a Utah limited liability company



                                         By:--------------
                                          _ _ _ _ _ _ _, its Manager

                                         THRIVE DEVELOPMENT, LLC,
                                         a Utah limited liability company


                                         By: _ __ __ _ __ __ __ _
                                             _ _ _ _ _ __ , its Manager
                                    Exhibit "A" to
                                  Agreement to Lease
The Site and the Walgreens Parcel consist of the following improved realty located in Salt Lake
County. The Site also is shown outlined in yellow on the site plan that is attached to this Agreement
as Exhibit "B," with the Walgreens Parcel also shown abutting the Site.

Site:

Lot 1, HILLSIDE PLAZA SUBDIVISION, according to the official plat thereof, on file and of
record in the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder, State of Utah.

Together with the nonexclusive easements for ingress and egress by vehicular and pedestrian
traffic and for vehicular parking, as created, defined and described pursuant to the provisions of
that certain Declaration of Restrictions and Reciprocal Easements, recorded August 26, 1976, as
Entry No. 2849657, in Book 4315 at Page 174, of the Official Records, and any amendments
thereto.

Also together with the nonexclusive easements for vehicular ingress and egress, vehicular parking,
pedestrian access, and existing underground utilities, as created, defined and described pursuant to
the provisions of that certain Declaration of Covenants, Easements, and Restrictions, recorded
August l, 2006, as Entry No. 9798315, in Book 9329 at Page 7274, of the Official Records, and
any amend1uents tl1ereto.

Tax ID Nos.: 22-27-20 l-029, 22-27-201-030, 22-27-201-03 l, 22-27-20 l-032, 22-27-20 l-033 and
22-27-201-034

Walgreens Parcel:

Lot 2, HILLSIDE PLAZA SUBDIVISION, according to the official plat thereof, on file and of
record in the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder, State of Utah.

Together with the nonexclusive easements for ingress and egress by vehicular and pedestrian
traffic and for vehicular parking, as created, defined and described pursuant to the provisions of
that certain Declaration of Restrictions and Reciprocal Easements, recorded August 26, l 976, as
Entry No. 2849657, in Book 4315 at Page 174, of the Official Records, and any amendments
thereto.

Also together with the nonexclusive easements for vehicular ingress and egress, vehicular parking,
pedestrian access, and existing underground utilities, as created, defined and described pursuant to
the provisions of that certain Declaration of Covenants, Easements, and Restrictions, recorded
August I, 2006, as Entry No. 9798315, in Book 9329 at Page 7274, of the Official Records, and
any amendments thereto.

Tax ID No.: 22-27-201-035
  Exhibit "B" to
Agreement to Lease
  Exhibit "C" to
Agreement to Lease

(Insert Copy of Ground Lease)
                                  Master Ground Lease
       THIS MASTER GROUND LEASE (this "Lease") is made and entered into effective
            202_ (the "Effective Date") by and among the COTTOMVOOD HEIGHTS
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND RENEW AL AGENCY ("Landlord") of the city of
Cottonwood Heights, Utah (" City"), whose address is 2277 East Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood
Heights, UT 84121, and TDD, a _ _ __ _ __, whose address is 7585 South Union Park
Avenue, Ste. 200, Midvale , UT 84047 ("Tenant"). In this Lease, Landlord and Tenant are each a
"Party" and collectively are the "Parties."

                                           ARTICLE I
                                     DEl\fiSE OF PREMISES

         Demise. For good and valuable consideration (including the rents, terms, covenants and
agreements hereinafter set forth on the part of Tenant to be paid, kept, observed and performed),
Landlord does hereby demise and lease to Tenant, and Tenant does hereby lease, take and hire
from Landlord, upon and subject to the terms and conditions contained herein, that certain ground
that is particularly described on Exhibit "A" annexed hereto (the "Site") and further together with:

              (a)    An accompanying non-exclusive leasehold interest in all rights, titles,
privileges, easements and appurtenances that belong and appertain to the Site (the
"Appurtenances"), subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein; and

                (b)     All Old Improvements (as hereinafter defined) now located on the Site and
all appurtenances thereunto belonging (the Site, Old Improvements and Appurtenances are
hereinafter collectively refened to as "Premises"),

for the Term, at tl1e rental, and upon all the covenants and conditions set forth in this Lease, subject
only to title matters set forth on attached Exhibit "B'' (collectively, the "Permitted Title
Exceptions").

A site plan of the Site is attached hereto as Exhibit "C" and by reference incorporated herein (the
"Site Plan"). The Site Plan is hereby approved by the Parties subject to possible future revision as
explained below.

In this Lease, the tenu "Old Improvements" means Landlord's interests in any and all structures
and appurtenances thereto of every type and kind currently located on, at or under the Site,
including without limitation buildings, outbuildings, garages, sheds, patios, patio covers, awnings,
additions, walkways, sprinkler systems or pipes, garages, roads, curbing, paving, driveways,
parking areas, fences, screening walls, retaining walls, stairs, decks, fixtures, landscaping hedges,
windbreaks, poles, signs, exterior tanks, solar panels and equipment, exterior evaporative coolers,
air conditioning and water softener fixtures, exterior antennae, aerials and other equipment for the
reception or transmission of radio, television, microwave, electromagnetic, or other similar or
dissimilar communication systems, and anything or any device that alters the natural flow of water
from any property adjoining the Site.

Context of Lease; Closing. The Site consists of Lots I and 2 of the Hillside Plaza Subdivision.
Lot 1 contains the approximately 10.4 acres "Hillside Plaza" shopping center, an outdated,
underntilized "strip" retail center. Lot 2, located on the Northwest corner of the Site, is an
                                                   l
approximately 1.09 acres parcel containing a building now or formerly housing a Walgreens retail
pharmacy business and related improvements. Tenant is leasing the Premises for the purposes of
redeveloping the Premises into an active, sustainable, cohesively-functioning and integrated mixed
use project including a public plaza and pavilion containing approximately two acres (the "Pla=a" );
approximately 100,000 - 140,000 square feet of commercial uses in approximately eight (8)
buildings fronting Fort Union Blvd. and 2300 East street; approximately eighty (80) residential
"for rent" town-home units; and other amenities, buildings and improvements (which, with the
Premises, is collectively referred to as the "Project"), all as shown on the attached Site Plan.

Upon full execution and delivery of this Lease the Parties simultaneously shall have a closing
("Closing") as reasonably specified (as to date, time and place in Salt Lake County, Utah) by
Tenant, when (a) the Parties shall mutually, contemporaneously with this Lease execute and
deliver a "Development Agreement" (the "Development Agreement"), a "Public Use Easement
Agreement" (the "Easement Agreement") and all ancillary documents which specifically are
required by the terms of this Lease or the Development Agreement (collectively, the "De_finitive
Documents"); (b) Tenant shall pay to Landlord all Rent due for the first month of this Lease; (c)
this Lease, the Development Agreement, the Easement Agreement and any other Definitive
Documents reasonably specified in the Development Agreement shall be recorded against title to
the Site in such priorities as Landlord may specify, provided that the recording priorities of the
Development Agreement, this Lease and the Easement Agreement always shall be senior and
superior to all title encumbrances created by, through or under Tenant; and (d) Tenant may at its
cost obtain a leasehold owner policy oftitle insurance (the "Title Policy") in such amount as Tenant
reasonably deems appropriate from Old Republic Title Insurance Company or another qualified
title insurance company reasonably selected by Tenant ("Title Company'), ,in.surtng Tenant's
leasehold estate under this Lease subject only to the Pennitted Title Exceptions identified on
Exhibit "B" attached hereto.

       Section 1.03 Subdivision.

               (a)     Bv Landlord. Prior to the execution of this Lease, Landlord shall cause the
 portion of the Site holding the Plaza to be subdivided into a separate lot (the "Plaza Lot"), and
 Tenant shall promptly cooperate in all reasonable ways (but without material unreimbursed
 expense to Tenant) with such subdivision. The out-of-pocket costs incurred in com1ection with
 any such subdivision (such as for surveys and filing fees) shall be paid by Landlord.

               (b)     By Tenant. From time to time throughout the Term Tenant may cause the
 Site less the Plaza to be subdivided into lots as reasonably deemed necessary by Tenant and
 reasonably approved by Landlord (whose approval shall not be unreasonably withheld,
 conditioned, or delayed) and City to facilitate Tenant's financing and construction of the Project
 improvements (the "Project Improvements"). Landlord shall cooperate in all reasonable ways (but
 without material unreimbursed expense to Landlord) with any such future subdivision of the Site
 by Tenant. The out-of-pocket costs incurred in connection with any such subdivision(s) (such as
 for surveys and filing fees) shall be paid by Tenant.

        Section 1.04 Revisions to Site Plan. From time to time during the Tenn (defined below)
of this Lease the attached Site Plan may be revised if and as approved by the Parties to reflect any
subdivision affecting the Site and any other mutually agreeable modifications and, once approved
by City through its public process, re-appended to this Lease.

                                                 2
          Section 1.05 Resolution of Title Issues. If Exhibit "B'' designates any title issues
currently affecting the Site that are reasonably objected to by Tenant in writing before Closing (the
"Unpermitled Title Exceptions"), following Closing Landlord shall diligently endeavor to resolve,
terminate and extinguish of record those Unpermitted Title Exceptions. Tenant timely shall
cooperate with such work by Landlord in all reasonable ways (without material unreimbursed
expense). In furtherance of the foregoing, Landlord shall continue to be deemed to be an
"interested party" as to the Site and, as such, to have an interest in the Site sufficient for Landlord
to bring an action in its own right (and/or, if desired by Landlord, on behalf of Tenant) to quiet
title in the Site pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. 78B-6-130 let seq. and other applicable law (a "Quiet
Title Action") in order to resolve any unresolved Unpennitted Title Exceptions. Any Quiet Title
Action or other efforts by Landlord to resolve the Unpermitted Title Exceptions shall be at
Landlord's cost. Tenant freely may tenniuate this Lease upon written notice to Landlord if the
Unpem1itted Title Exceptions are not resolved to Tenant's reasonable satisfaction before
commencement of construction of any of the New Improvements ( defined below). For avoidance
of uncertainty, "commencement of construction" shall mean any demolition, physical excavation
and/or building activities on the Site, but shall not include preliminary work such as planning,
applying for or obtaining zoning or use approvals or building permits to prepare for construction
of the New Improvements.

                                          ARTICLE II
                                        TERM OF LEASE

         Term of Lea:se. The initial tenn (the "Initial Term") of this Lease shaH commence on the
Effective Date and shall expire, unless sooner tenninated under the tenns and conditions contained
in this Lease, at 11: 59 p.m. (Utah time) on the last day of the calendar month in which the sixty-
first (61 st ) anniversary of the Effective Date occurs.

                (a)     Extension Option. Tenant will have one option (the "Option") to extend
the term of the Ground Leas·e an additional 15 years (the "Extension Term") beyond the Initial
Tenn, but only if (i) Landlord has issued an Enhancement Certificate (defined below), and (ii)
Tenant has properly perfonned the Refresh (defined below), and (iii) Tenant is not in uncured
material default beyond the applicable cure period wider the Lease at the time of exercise of the
Option or at -commencement of the 15-years Extension Term; and (iv) Tenant has complied with
any other conditions for exercise of the Option specified below in this Section 2.02. Subject to the
foregoing, the Option may be exercised upon written notice to Landlord within the final year of
the 61-years Initial Tenn. If the Option is exercised, this Lease shall continue pursuant to its tenns
and conditions for the Extension Term (but with increases in Rent as described below), and the
Tenn of this Lease shall be deemed to include both the Initial Tenn and the Extension Term. If the
Option is not timely exercised then this Lease shall tenninate as of the end of the original 61-years
Initial Tenn. The Initial Term and any Extension Term comprise the "Term" of this Lease.

                (a)     Enhancement Certificate. Tenant has informed Landlord that if Landlord
will grant the Option Tenant will utilize enhanced design and construction techniques, and finer,
more attractive and more durable exterior materials (such as high-quality brick, natural stone,
glass, copper, steel and wood, perhaps combined with advanced concrete solutions and innovative
materials like carbon fiber) for its Project Improvements to create a materially more durable,
aesthetically pleasing, sophisticated and lasting impression for the Project in comparison to typical
other mixed use projects of essentially the same scope and age in Utah' s "Wasatch Front"
("Typical Projects''). In this Lease those enhanced practices and materials are called the
                                                   3
"Enhancements." Following Tenant's written request including complete supporting
documentation submitted within one year after completion of initial construction of Tenant's
buildings and other Project Improvements detailing the Enhancements Landlord shall carefully
consider Tenant's request and supporting documentation and make any desired inspections. If
Landlord reasonably determines that the Enhancements occurred and are of sufficient magnitude
to cause Tenant's Project Improvements to be materially superior in tem1s of aesthetics,
appearance, durability and functionality in comparison to Typical Projects, then Landlord shall
issue and record a written certificate (the "Enhancement Certificate") to evidence Landlord's
approval of the appearance and constmction of Tenant's Project Improvements and its
acknowledgement of the Enhancements.

                (b)     Refresh. In addition to Tenant's continuing obligation to maintain in good,
attractive repair and condition its Project Improvements throughout the entire Term, within one
year before or one year after the 30th year of the Term Tenant shall at its cost perfom1 a
comprehensive exterior refresh and upgrade (the "Refresh") of the Project less the Plaza,
expending at least$_ _ in Constant Dollars (defined below) per usable square foot, designed to
enhance the aesthetics, appearance and functionality of its Project Improvements to increase
visitation by the public and attract desirable tenants. Tenant shall reasonably consult with Landlord
concerning the exact nature of the Refresh before commencing such work.

               (c)     Other Conditions. ?????

                                          ARTICLE lH
                                            RENT

        Ll     Overview. The date on which Tenant is required to commence paying rent ("Rent")
tmder this Lease is the first anniversary of the Effective Date (the "Rent Commencement Date").
From the Rent Commencement Date throughout the Tenn of this Lease Tenant shall pay to
Landlord Rent in monthly installments. The annual Rent to be paid by Tenant under this Lease
shaH be increased annually over the first three years following the Rent Commencement Date
according to various development or temporal milestones as described below until Full Rent
(defined below) is achieved. Thereafter, Full Rent shall increase annually, shall be subject to
periodic resets as described below, and shall be paid in accordance with this Article III and the
terms and conditions of this Lease.



               (a)    First Year. Ammal Rent for the one (l)-year period following the Rent
Commencement Date (the "First Period") shall be equal to $450,000.00 (the "First Period Rent").
The First Period Rent shall be due on the Rent Commencement Date and cover Tenant's Rent
payment obligation for the First Period.

                (b)     Second Period and Subsequent Years. Annual Rent for the one (1)-year
period following the First Period (the "Second Period'') and for each and every subsequent one-
year period of the Term (including any extensions) shall be equal to $700,000.00 ("Full Rent"),
subject to the ammal increases and periodic resets described below. Such Rent shall be due on the
first day of the Second Period and on the same day of each year thereafter throughout the balance
of the Term.


                                                 4
        Annual Increases. The Full Rent will be increased by two and one-half percent (2.5%)
every year during the Term of this Lease, with the first adjustment occurring on the first
anniversary of the commencement of Full Rent and successive increases occurring on the same
day of every year thereafter throughout the Lease Tenn.

          Section 3.04 Periodic Rent Resets. The Rent shall be reset and increased (but never
decreased) upon the occurrence of any of the following: (a) each ten-year anniversary of the Rent
Commencement Date; or (b) if during the Term any material change occurs in the allowed use,
zoning, number of residential dwellings specified above, the amount of leasable square footage of
the Project specified above, or otherwise which significantly enhances the value of the Project. For
clarification purposes, a Refresh will not be considered a triggering event to reset the Rent, nor
will it be taken into consideration when calculating Rent pursuant to this Section 3.04.

The increase will be as mutually agreed by the Parties working together in good faith, or failing
that, then the Rent shall be reset and increased pursuant to the following appraisal process. The
Parties shall each select at its cost a qualified MAI appraiser ( with at least ten years' experience in
appraising commercial properties similar to the !Project) and each MAI appraisal shall offer an
opinion as to the fair market rental value of the ground constituting the Site. If those two opinions
are within a range of 10%, then the opinions shall be averaged and said average shall become the
new Rent. If those two opinions are not within 10% of ,each other, then the two appraisers
previously selected shall agree upon a third MAI appraiser who shall (at the Parties' joint cost)
offer its MAI appraisal of the fair market rental value of the Site. The amount of the third opinion
shall be averaged with one or both of the first two opinions if one or both of the first two opinions
are within 10% of the third opinion and if not, then the third opinion shall be averaged with the
opinion that is closest to the third opinion and that average sb:all become the new Rent. In no event
shall Rent be reduced as a result of the periochc Rent adjustment/res·et process set forth herein.

         Rent--General. Commencing on the Rent Commencement Date the then annual Rent shall
be paid to Landlord in equal monthly installments wfaich shall be due and payable on or before the
first calendar day of each month at Landlord's address specified above or to such other address as
Landlord faereafter may specify in writing to Tenant Rent for partial months during which this
Lease commences or terminates shall be prorated. All Rent shall be absolutely net to Landlord so
that this Lease shall yield to Landlord the full amount of the Rent throughout the Tenn without
deduction or offset. The Rent shall continue at the rates specified above throughout the entire
Tem1.

Tenant shall pay to Landlord all Rent payments via ACH withdrawal, as and when due and without
notice or demand, or as otherwise directed in writing by Landlord from time to time. Landlord
shall provide Tenant with the necessary ACH authorization form and Tenant shall execute such
fonn and provide any other information reasonably necessary to allow Landlord to arrange the
ACH withdrawals. TENANT SHALL NOT ABATE, SET OFF OR DEDUCT ANY
AMOUNT OR DAMAGES FROM OR REDUCE ANY RENT OR OTHER PAYMENT
DUE FOR ANY REASON, EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY AUTHORIZED IN THIS LEASE.
TENANT SHALL NOT REVERSE, RETURN AS UNAUTHORIZED, OR IN ANY OTHER
WAY DISRUPT OR INTERFERE WITH ANY PREVIOUSLY AUTHORIZED ACH
PAYMENT. EXCEPT AS MAY OTHERWISE SPECIFICALLY BE PROVIDED IN THIS
LEASE, THIS LEASE IS NON-CANCELABLE FOR THE ENTIRE TERM.

Although at Tenant's request 45. 7% of the Full Rent will be attributed to the residential portion of
                                                   5
the Project and 54.3% of the Full Rent will be attributed to the commercial portion of the Project,
such attribution shall not affect Tenant's obligation to pay the entire Rent throughout the Tenn or
otherwise bifurcate or diminish Landlord's right to require full and timely payment and
performance of all of Tenant's duti,es under this Lease and the other Definitive Documents.

                                     ARTICLE IV
                          TAXES, ASSESSMENTS AND CHARGES

         Taxes and Assessments. Subject to the provisions of Article XIV hereof (concerning
Permitted Contests) and Article V (concerning the Plaza), commencing on the Effective Date
Tenant shall discharge and pay (before the same become delinquent and before any fine, penalty,
or interest may be added for nonpayment) any and all taxes, assessments, license or pem1it fees,
special district or community improvement district assessments, excises, imposts and charges of
every nature and classification (all or any one of which are hereinafter referred to as "Taxes") that
at any time during the Term are levied, assessed, charged or imposed upon Landlord's fee simple
and/or reversionary interest in the Premises and the leasehold estate of Tenant created hereby;
provided, however, (a) Tenant shall not be obligated to pay any local, state or federal income taxes
imposed on Landlord, (b) Tenant shall not be obligated to pay any amounts levied upon Landlord
as a franchise, estate, gift, inheritance, succession or capital levy tax, and (c) Tenant shall not be
obligated to pay any Taxes attributable to the period of time before the Effective Date or following
expiration or earlier termination of the Term of this Lease. Each Party shall provide copies of all
Tax invoices received by the Party to the other Party within ten business days after their receipt
from the taxing authority, and Tenant shall provide proof of timely payment of such Taxes to
Landlord within ten business days after tlteir respective due date(s).

If a lender of Tenant is not already requirmg Tenant to make periodic payments into an impound
account (or similar) of the prope11y taxes assessed against the Project then Landlord may at its
commercially reasonable discretion require Tenant to make monthly payments of property taxes
into an escrow account (the "Tax Escrow") as described below in this Section 4.0 l. If Landlord
notifies Tenant in writing of its decision to require a Tax Escrow, then the Parties shall promptly
cooperate to establish the Tax Escrow within one month thereafter. The escrow agent ("Escrow
Agent") holding the Tax Escrow shall be a bank trust department, a title company, or another
legally qualified, independent, financially capable escrow agent that is reasonably proposed by
Tenant and reasonably acceptable to Landlord to receive and disburse all property tax payments
from Tenant. Upon selection of Escrow Agent, the Parties shall promptly cooperate to issue
binding escrow instmctions to Escrow Agent which are reasonably proposed by Tenant and
reasonably acceptable to Landlord and Escrow Agent.

After Landlord's notice of its intent to require the Tax Escrow and until creation of the Tax Escrow,
Tenant shall pay to Landlord, with each monthly rental payment, one-twelfth (I/12) of the
estimated property taxes to be assessed against the Premises and any New Improvements. From
and after commencement of the Tax Escrow, (w) Landlord promptly shall pay over to Escrow
Agent all property taxes previously paid by Tenant which have not yet been paid over to the Salt
Lake County Treasurer (the "Treasurer"), (x) Tenant thereafter shall pay (or cause to be paid) to
Escrow Agent, during each calendar month of the remaining Term, one-twelfth (l/12) of the
estimated property taxes to be assessed against the Premises and any New Improvements; (y)
Escrow Agent shall by November 30th of each tax year pay to the Treasurer all monies in the Tax
Escrow; and (z) Tenant shaJI by November 30th of each tax year pay to the Treasurer any and all
additional prope11y taxes for the Premises and any New Improvements due for such tax year.
                                                  6
Within ten days after receipt, each Party shall provide to the other Party copies of all pertinent tax
notices and invoices it receives from the Salt Lake County Assessor (the "Assessor"). Each Party
also shall provide proof of tax payments to the Treasurer promptly following written request by
the other Party and shall pay to the Treasurer when due all interest, fines, fees, etc. arising from
that Party's failure to timely make any tax payment(s) due to the Treasurer as provided in this
Section 4.01. At any time during a tax year the estimated monthly pro rata payment of property
taxes may be modified as requested by Landlord in writing if Landlord reasonably believes, based
on current assessment infonnation from the Assessor's records, that the property taxes for the
Premises and any New Improvements have changed.

         Utility Charges. Subject to the provisions of Article XN (concerning Pennitted Contests),
Tenant covenants and agrees that it shall pay when due all charges, deposits, access fees, tap-in
and hook-up fees, and the similar fees regarding the installment of utilities or related to the
construction or alteration of the Improvements for all public or private utility services including
without limitation water, sewer, gas, light, heat and air conditioning, telephone, electricity, cable
television, trash removal, power and other utility and communications services (all or any one of
which hereinafter referred to as "Charges") that are rendered or become due and payable with
respect to the Premises at any time during the Term and during any period prior to the
commencement of the Tenn after Tenant takes possession of the Premises for the construction of
or alterations to the lmprov,ements. Landlord will use commercially reasonable efforts to have any
work to be done by or for Landlord which may affect utility services to the Premises performed
during non-operating hours. Notwith:standing anything herein to the contrary, if Tenant is
prevented from using, amd does not use, the Premises or any material portion thereof for three (3)
or more consecutive days (the "Eligibility Period'') as a result of any interruption in utility services
that is attributable to the grossly negligent acts or omissions of Landlord, its agents, employees or
contractors, then Tenant's obligation to pay Rent shall be abated or reduced, as the case may be,
from and after the first ( l st) day following th.e Eligibility Period and continuing for so long as
Tenant continues to be so prevented from using, and does not use, the Premises or a portion thereof

        Section 4.04 General. Tenant shall prepare and file all reports and returns required by law
and governmental regulations with respect to any Taxes and upon Landlord's request shall furnish
copies thereof to Landlord. Upon Landlord's written request Tenant shall forward to Landlord
copies of any bill or assessment respecting any Taxes upon Tenant's receipt thereof from the taxing
authority. Landlord shall promptly furnish to Tenant copies of any bill or assessment respecting
any Taxes upon Landlord's receipt thereof from the taxing authority. Upon Landlord' s written
request Tenant shall deliver to Landlord receipts evidencing the payment of any Taxes and/or
Charges payable by Tenant as provided in Section 4.01 and Section 4.02 hereof. If Taxes include
any special assessments for improvements which may be paid in installments, Tenant shall be
obligated to pay only such installments as they become due and shall be obligated to pay only such
installments which are to become due and payable prior to the expiration of the Tenn. Any Taxes
for the year in which Tenant's obligation to pay Taxes commences and terminates or expires shall
be prorated on a daily basis, as applicable, between Landlord and Tenant.

        Section 4.04 Tenant's Failure to Pay. If Tenant fails to pay any Taxes and/or Charges
(or any installment thereof) when due and Tenant is not contesting such Taxes as provided in this
Lease, and such failure continues without correction for at least one month after notice thereof
from Landlord to Tenant, then Landlord, without declaring a default hereunder and without
relieving Tenant of any liability hereunder, shall h:we the right but not the obligation to pay any
such Taxes and/or Charges (or any installment thereof) and any amount so paid by Landlord,
                                                 7
together with all reasonable out-of-pocket costs incurred by Landlord in connection therewith,
shall be paid by Tenant to Landlord within one month after written notice from Landlord
demanding payment (including reasonably detailed supporting infonnation regarding the amounts
owed) with Interest thereon in the manner provided in the following paragraph. Tenant's obligation
to pay Taxes and Charges which accme during the Term shall survive any tern1ination of this
Lease.

In those circumstances where Tenant fails or refuses to pay any amounts owed under th.is Lease
and Landlord elects to pay such amounts as provided in this Lease, such amounts incurred by
Landlord shall accrue interest at the Default Rate (herein referred to as "Interest") from the due
date through the date paid or, if demand is required therefor by the tenns of this Lease, from the
date which is one month after the date of written notice from Landlord demanding payment
(including reasonably detailed supporting information regarding the amounts owed) through the
date paid. Additionally, except for the first delinquent payment in any given consecutive 12-month
period, Landlord may charge Tenant a fee equal to five percent (5%) of the delinquent payment
(herein referred to as a "Late Fee") to reimburse Landlord for its cost and inconvenience incurred
as a consequence of Tenant's delinquency. In no event, however, shall the charges pennitted under
this Section 4.04 or ,elsewhere in this Lease, to the extent they are considered to be interest under
law, exceed the maximum lawful rate of interest. As used herein, the term "Default Rate" shall
mean an annual rate of interest equal to the Prime Rate plus eight percent {8%). As used herein,
the tern "Prime Rate" sllall mean the rate of interest per annum announced from time to time by
JP Morgan Chase Bank, or its successor organization, as its prime commercial lending rate.

       Section 4.05 lmpact Fees. Subject to the Development Agreement, Tenant shall be solely
responsible for and shall timely pay any charges in the nature of building permit fees, impact fees
and other similar fees and charges attributable to the construction of Improvements on the Site.

                                        ARTICLEV
                                     PLAZA; PUBLIC USE

       Notwithstanding anything in this Lease to the contrary:

        Section 5.0 l Background. The Plaza will serve as a focal point of the Project, with the
Project being graded so that the Plaza space opens up at street level with the Fort Union Blvd. /
2300 East intersection. The Plaza will be a public amenity, and at Closing Landlord and City shall
be granted an express easement pursuant to the Easement Agreement assuring that the Plaza is
available for public use during all times (up to 24/7/365) desired by them und-er such terms,
conditions, rules and the like as they may specify from time to time. The public's resulting right
to use the Plaza pursuant to such easement shall be primary and superior to all other use rights,
any or all of which shall be subject to control or prohibition by Landlord or City. Subject to
Landlord's and City's primary right to use and control use of the Plaza, the Development
Agreement will further provide that Landlord and City, and Tenant (and any owners association
or similar from time to time in effect in the Project), may cooperate in programming use of the
Plaza and other public areas of the Project to facilitate the staging of events such as festivals,
outdoor marketplaces, community celebrations and the like designed to activate and continually
freshen public visitation and use of the Project.

        Section 5.02 Construction; Maintenance; Etc. Planning and design of the Plaza will be
a collaborative effort. Construction of the Plaza shall be at Landlord's cost. Construction of the
                                                  8
Plaza will occur as reasonably required by Landlord in consultation with Tenant and will not
necessarily follow constmction of any of the other Project Improvements in order to, for example,
provide a staging area for construction of those other Improvements. The Plaza shall be repaired
and maintained by Landlord or City; provided, however, that because the Plaza will be an amenity
for both the general public and for the Project's tenants and their invitees, the cost of repair and
maintenance to the Plaza shall be equitably shared by Plaza's owner and Tenant if and as provided
in the Development Agreement (or any separate common area maintenance agreement included as
a Definitive Document) except to the extent of damage (beyond reasonable wear-and-tear) caused
by (A) Tenant, its tenants, their customers, or residents of the balance of the Project, which shall
be paid by Tenant, or (B) the general public, which shall be paid by the Plaza's owner. Throughout
the Tem1 Landlord shall pay all taxes, assessments and insurance costs (through Landlord's
insurer) due on the Plaza.

                            ARTICLE VI
USE AND CONDITION OF THE PREMISES; CONSTRUCTION OF IMPROVEMENTS

        Section 6.02 Use of the P1·emises. Tenant may use and occupy the Premises solely for
purposes oftlte Project as described in Section l.02 above and the Development Agreement. Uses
shall be limited to mixed retail, "second story" commercial, hospitality (hotel) and housing as
described in the Development Agreement with approval by City through its standard development
review/approval process if and as legally required (the "Permitted Uses"). Tenant may seek
approval of additional specialty uses for the Site with Landlord's approval in Landlord's sole
discretion. Tenant shall not allow any use of the Project for any purpose that would impair the
intended public use and enjoyment of the Plaza nor for any purpose not typically allowed in "Class
A" mixed use projects in Salt Lake County.

Landlord shall reasonably cooperate with Tenant in Tenant' s entitlement process concerning the
Project in:duding joining in applications as reasonably necessary; pmvided, however, that (a) such
application shall be consistent with the Design Plans (defined below) approved by Landlord, the
Development Agreement and this Lease, and (b) Tenant shall be solely responsible for all expenses
and fees associated with any such application.

Tenant may freely modify, demolish, remove and/or dispose ofany or all of the Old Improvements
as desired by Tenant in order to use the Premises for a Pennitted Use. The tenn Premises after
Tenant's demolition and removal of the Old Improvements shall exdude from its definition the
term Old Improvements.

         Section 6.03 Condition of the Premises. Except as may otherwise be expressly provided
in this Lease, Landlord (whether in its capacity as the ground lessor or in its governmental capacity)
does not make any warranty or representation, express or implied, written or oral, statutory or
otherwise, concerning the Premises. Subject to the following sentence, TENANT IS LEASING
THE PREMISES IN AN "AS IS" CONDITION "\VITH ALL FAULTS," AND TENANT IS
NOT REL YING ON ANY REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND
WHATSOEVER, WHETHER WRITTEN, ORAL, STATUTORY, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, FROM LANDLORD, ANY LANDLORD-RELATED PARTIES, OR THEIR
AGENTS, OR ANY OTHER PERSON ACTING OR PURPORTING TO ACT ON
BEHALF OF LANDLORD, AS TO ANY MATTERS CONCERNING THE PREMISES,
INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION: (A) THE QUALITY, NATURE, ADEQUACY
AND PHYSICAL CONDITION AND ASPECTS OF THE PREMISES, (B) THE QUALITY,
                                                  9
NATURE, ADEQUACY, AND PHYSICAL CONDITION OF SOILS, GEOLOGY AND
ANY GROUND\-VATER ON THE PREMISES, (C) THE EXISTENCE, QUALITY,
NATURE, ADEQUACY AND PHYSICAL CONDITION OF UTILITIES SERVING THE
PREMISES, (D) THE DEVELOPMENT POTENTIAL OF THE PREMISES, AND/OR
THE PREMISES' USE, HABITABILITY, MERCHANTABILITY, OR FITNESS,
SUITABILITY, VALUE OR ADEQUACY OF THE PREMISES FOR ANY PARTICULAR
PURPOSE, (E) THE ZONING OR OTHER LEGAL STATUS OF TIIE PREMISES OR
ANY OTHER PUBLIC OR PRIVATE RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF THE PREMISES, (F)
THE PRESENCE OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS ON, UNDER OR ABOUT THE
PREMISES OR THE ADJOINING OR NEIGHBORING PROPERTY, (G) THE QUALITY
OF ANY LABOR AND MATERIALS USED IN ANY IMPROVEMENTS ON THE
PREMISES, (H) THE CONDITION OF TITLE TO THE PREMISES, (I) THE VALUE,
ECONOMICS OF THE OPERATION OR INCOME POTENTIAL OF THE PREMISES,
(J) THE PHYSICAL CONDITION, VALUE, ECONOMICS OF OPERATION OR
INCOME POTENTIAL OF THE PREMISES, (K) THE COMPLIANCE OF THE
PREMISES 'WITH ANY LOCAL, STATE OR FEDERAL LAWS, ORDINANCES OR
REGULATONS, OR (L) THE SIZE, DIMENSIONS OR SQUARE FOOTAGE OF THE
SITE. THE PROVISIONS OF THIS SECTION 6.02 SHALL SURVIVE THE
EXPIRATION OR EARLIER TERMINATION OF Tms LEASK

Notwithstanding the foregoing, Landlord represents tl1at to its curr·ent, actual knowledge (i)
Landlord has Rot received any written notice that tbe Premises are in violation of applicable laws,
(ii) there are no pending or threatened condemnation proceedings, govenunental investigations or
any other litigation or other proceedings affecting the Premises, and (iii) Landlord has not received
any wiitten notice of presence of any Hazardous Substances on, in, under or adjacent to the
Premises ·except for Hazardous Substances used in conjunction with the Premises' operations or
as otherwise disclosed by Landlord.

       Section 6.04 Construction of the New Improvements.

                (a)    Pre-Construction Schedule. The Parties intend for the Premises to be
redeveloped through Tenant's construction of the new improvements ("New Improvements")
constituting the Project in compliance with the construction schedule (the "Const111ction
Schedule") specified in the Development Agreement, and that most or all zoning, use or building
approvals (the "Entitlements") will have been obtained from City before the Effective Date. To the
extent any remaining Entitlements are needed, Tenant shall use its diligent best efforts to assure
that they are granted within three months after the Effective Date (the "Outside Entitlement Date").
Landlord shall reasonably cooperate with Tenant's efforts to obtain all the Entitlements. If such
remaining Entitlements are not completed by the Outside Entitlement Date then Tenant promptly
shall so infonn Landlord in writing and within one month thereafter Landlord may, at its option
and upon written notice to Tenant, either (i) terminate this Lease, provided that following such
notice Tenant shall have three months ' opportunity to cure (by securing such approvals, etc.), in
which event such tennination by Landlord shall be ineffectual, or (ii) extend the Outside
Entitlement Date (and Tenant's time to secure such approvals, etc.) to the first anniversary of the
Effective Date.

If Landlord so extends the Entitlement Date but construction of the New Improvements has not
commenced by that extended Entitlement Date (i.e., by the first anniversary of the Effective Date),
then Landlord may tenninate this Lease upon at least one month' s additional prior written notice
                                                 10
and opportunity to cure to Tenant.

The Project schedule, the Entitlement Date, and any extension of the Entitlement Date shall not
affect, delay or excuse Tenant from Tenant's obligation to pay the Rent then due under this Lease.

                 (b)    Plans. All New Improvements on the Project shall consistently throughout
the Tem1 feature a well-maintained, attractive, upscale, aesthetically-pleasing, high-quality, first-
class appearance and design. The Parties anticipate that the schematic design and design
development phases of its proposed New Improvements comprising the Project will have been
completed before the Effective Date and that final design plans will have been approved by
Landlord before the Effective Date or as otherwise provided in the Development Agreement. To
the extent that the design plans for the Project are not so finalized before the Effective Date or as
otherwise provided in the Development Agreement, or if the Parties mutually agree to modify any
prior-approved design plans after the Effective Date, then Tenant shall submit such final or revised
design plans ("Design Plans") to Landlord for Landlord's review and reasonable approval, which
approval shall not be unreasonably withheld., conditioned, or delayed. Landlord shall, within 20
days after submittal of the Design Plans, either (i) provide written approval of the Design Plans to
Tenant, or (ii) meet with Tenant to discuss any portion of the Design Plans that are reasonably
unacceptable to Landlord. Tenant and Landlord sh.all expeditiously work together in good faith to
resolve any unacceptable aspects of the Design Plans. Tenant hereby covenants and agrees that
corn.struction the New Improvements comprising any Project shall commence only after Tenant has
received Landlord's approval of the underlying Design Plans pursuant to the foregoing process. In
all events Landlord's approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. The
Parties further acknowledge that (i) approval by Landlord does not constitute or assure approval
by City, and (ii) City in its reasonable discretinn in compliance with legal requirements, and not
Landlord, will control all aspects of the Project's legal entitlement process, including zoning,
conditional use, subdivision and other processes that may be required under applicable laws to
allow redevelopment of the Site to proceed as contemplated by this Lease and the Development
Agreement.

                (c)     Construction Standards. The New Improvements constructed by Tenant
shall be installed (i) in a good and workmanlike manner in accordance with sound design and
building practices for the commercial real estate industry in Salt Lake County for similar projects,
and (ii) in compliance with all federal, state, county, City and other governmental codes, laws,
statutes, orders, decrees, restrictions, ordinances and regulations, now or hereafter enacted which
are applicable to or affect the Premises or constmction of the New Improvements thereon,
including without limitation obtaining all applicable pennits, inspections and approvals of all
governmental authorities, fire underwriters or other entities having jurisdiction (collectively, the
"Laws").

            (d)   Construction Assurance. Prior to commencement of constrnction of any
New Improvements:

                        (i)    Contractor Bond. If Tenant uses a general contractor other than an
affiliate of Tenant, Tenant shall provide to Landlord a copy of the payment and perfom1ance bond
from Tenant's general contractor for the full contract value of the construction of those New
Improvements with Landlord named as an additional obligee thereon.

                      (ii)    Completion Assurance. Tenant shall provide to Landlord reasonably
                                                 11
acceptable proof of adequate funding to complete such New Improvements, with a reasonable
excess for contingencies, whether through Tenant's own equity and funds or through loaned funds.
As a condition precedent to the closing of any construction loan for such New Improvements Tenant
shall provide to its construction lender a completion guaranty (the "Completion Guaranty") in such
commercially reasonable fonn as such lender may require. Tenant shall promptly provide to
Landlord a copy of the Completion Guaranty provided to Tenant 's lender. The Completion
Guaranty shall require the guarantor thereunder (the "Completion Guarantor") to guaranty the
prompt commencement of constmction of the subject New Improvements following Tenant's
receipt of all necessary approvals and diligently pursue construction of the New Improvements
through completion.

                (e)     Construction Filings: Notice ofCompletion. Tenant shall:

                       (i)    Pennits. Obtain at Tenant's cost all necessary building permits,
 licenses, or other governmental pennits necessary to construct the New Improvements, with
 Landlord cooperating as reasonably necessary with such permitting processes; and

                       (ii)    Construction and Completion Notices. File all pre-construction or
 construction notices or other filings of any kind required by applicable law. If legally required,
 upon completion of any work or improvement upon the Premises Tenant timely shall file or cause
 to be filed a valid notice of completion. Tenant shall indemnify, defend, and hold Landlord
 harmless from and against all claims arising out of or resulting from Tenant's failure to obtain any
 necessary pennits or licenses, or to file any construction notices or other legally required
 documentation, or for any mechanics' or materialmen' s liens.

                (f)     Liens. In the event of attachment to the Premises of any tax liens and liens
arising out of or because of any construction or installation perf01med by or on behalf of Tenant
or any of its contractors or subcontractors upon the Site or arising out of or because of the
perfonnance of any work or labor to it or them at the Site or the furnishing of any materials to it
or them for use at the Site, then, subject to Tenant's right to contest as set forth below, Tenant shall
bond against or discharge the same within one month after Landlord's written request.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Tenant may contest any such lien so long as (i) provision is made
to the satisfaction of Landlord for eventual payment thereof in the event that it is found that the
contested lien secures a valid obligation of Tenant, and (ii) such lien is released and discharged
prior to any sale of any of the Site that would result from nonpayment. Tenant shall notify Landlord
in writing within three days after Tenant receives actual or constrnctive notice of any liens or
anticipated liens on any of the Premises.

                  (g)    Construction Insurance. At all times during constrnction of any New
 Improvements Tenant's contractor and subcontractors shall procure and maintain until all of their
 obligations have been discharged, including any warranty periods under the construction contract
 are satisfied, insurance against claims for injury to persons or damage to property which may arise
 from or in connection with the perfonnance of the work by the contractor, its agents,
 representatives, employees or subcontractors.

                (h)     Construction Schedule. Tenant's failure to complete construction of the
 New Improvements as provided in the Constrnction Schedule shall constitute a default under this
 Lease and entitle Landlord to (i) terminate this Lease upon at least six months' prior written notice
 and opportunity to cure to Tenant, and/or (ii) pursue any other remedies available to Landlord upon
                                                   12
Tenant's default under this Lease.

                               ARTICLE VII
              COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS; LIENS AND ENCUMBRANCES

         Compliance with Laws. Subject to the provisions of Section 7.04 hereof (concerning
Hazardous Substances) and Article XIV hereof(conceming Permitted Contests), Tenant at its sole
cost and expense shall comply with, and cause the Premises and all New Improvements located
thereon to comply with, (a) all Laws affecting the Premises or any part thereof, or the use thereof,
including without limitation those which require Required Repairs (as defined in Section 8.01
hereof) or any structural changes in the New Improvements, whether or not any such Laws involve
a change of policy on the part of the governmental body enacting the same, and (b) the
requirements of all policies of public liability, fire and other insurance which at any time may be
in force with respect to tl1e Premises (all or any one of the items enumerated in this Section 7.01
is hereinafter referred to as a "Regulation").

         Tenant's Agreement Relating to Hazardous Substances. Tenant hereby covenants that
Tenant and its agents, employees and contractors will not (and Tenant shall not permit or suffer
any third party to) during th,e Tenn generate, store, use, treat or dispose of any Hazardous
Substances (as hereinafter defined) in, on or at the Premises or any part of the New Improvements,
except for Hazardous Substances in such amounts as are commonly legally used or stored as a
consequence of using the Premises for the Permitted Uses, and then only so Long as the substances
and quantities thereof are used in compliance with all Laws concerning the use or storage by
Tenant of such Hazardous Substances. Tenant further covenants that neither tl1e Premises nor any
part of the New Improvements shall ever be used by Tenant or its agents, contractors, employees,
or subtenants as a dump site or storage site (whether permanent or temporary) for any Hazardous
Substances during the Tem1.

Tenant shall indemnify, defend, a1td hold Landlord harmless from and against any and all losses,
liabilities, including strict liability, damages, injuries, expenses, including reasonable attorneys'
fees, costs of any settlement or judgment and claims of any and every kind whatsoever paid,
incu1Ted or suffered by, or asserted against, Landlord by any person or entity or governmental
agency for, with respect to, or as a direct or indirect result of, the presence on or under, or the
escape, seepage, leakage, spillage, discharge, emission, discharging or release on or from, the
Premises or the New Improvements constructed on the Premises of any Hazardous Substance
(including, without limitation, any losses, liabilities, including without limitation strict liability,
damages, injuries, expenses, including without limitation reasonable attorneys' fees, costs of any
settlement or judgment or claims asserted or arising under the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("C'ERC'LA"), any so called federal, state or local
"Superfund" or "Superlien" laws, or any other Laws regulating, relating to or imposing liability,
including strict liability, or standards of conduct concerning any Hazardous Substance), to the
extent that such escape, seepage, etc. of Hazardous Substances occurs during the Tenn due to
Tenant's use or occupancy of the Premises or is otherwise exacerbated by Tenant during the Tenn.
For clarification purposes, Tenant's obligation to indemnify, defend, and hold Landlord ha1mless
pursuant to this Subsection, shall not apply to any Hazardous Substances existing on the Premises
prior to the Effective Date or introduced to the Premises by Landlord, or seeping from other
properties adjacent to the Premises.

For purposes of this Lease, "Hazardous Substances" shall mean and include those elements or
                                                  13
compounds which are contained in the lists of hazardous substances or wastes now or hereafter
adopted by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (the "EPA") or the lists of toxic
pollutants designated now or hereafter by Congress or the EPA or which are defined as hazardous,
toxic, pollutant, infectious or radioactive by CERCLA or any Superfund law or any Superlien law
or any other Federal, state or local statute, law, ordinance, code, rule, regulation, order or decree
regulating, relating to, or imposing liability or standards of conduct concerning, any hazardous,
toxic or dangerous waste, substance or material, as now or at any time hereafter in effect.

Landlord shall have the right but not the obligation, and without limitation of Landlord's rights
under this Lease, to enter onto the Premises or to take such other actions as it reasonably deems
necessary or advisable to clean up, remove, resolve or minimize the impact of, or otherwise deal
with, any Hazardous Substance following receipt of any notice from any person or entity
(including without limitation the EPA) asserting the existence of any Hazardous Substance in, on
or at the Premises or any part thereof which, if tme, could result in an order, suit or other action
against Tenant and/or Landlord; provided, however, that except in the case of an emergency
Landlord will take such action only after written notice to Tenant of the alleged existence of
Hazardous Substances and Tenant's failure within a reasonable time (but no more than one month
without Landlord's written consent) following receipt of such notice to commence and thereafter
to diligently pursue to completion the appropriate action to clean-up, remove, resolve or minimize
the impact of su:ch Hazardous Substances. All reasonable costs and expenses (including without
limitation penalties, fees, interest, reasonable and actual attorneys' fees and court costs) incurred
by Landlord in the exercise of any such rights shall be paid by Tenant withm ten days after the
Landlord's written notice demanding payment and including reasonably detailed supporting
infonnation.

This Section 7.02 shall survive cancellation, te1mination or expiration of this Lease.

         Uens and Encumbrances. Tenant may encumber its leasehold interest in the Premises
under this Lease in connection with loan transactions arising in the context of Tenant' s
redevelopment and future operation of the Premises. Subject to the provisions of Article XIV
hereof (concerning Penuitted Contests), however, Tenant shall not create or permit to be created
or to remain, and shall promptly discharge or bond over at Tenant's sole cost and expense, any
lien, encumbrance or charge (all or any one of which hereinafter referred to as "Lien") upon
Landlord's fee simple interest in the Premises ("Landlord 's Interest"), including any such lien on
Landlord's Interest that arises from the use or occupancy of the Premises by Tenant or by reason
of any labor, service (including, without limitation, real estate brokerage, leasing or management
services) or material furnished or claimed to have been furnished to or for the benefit of Tenant or
by reason of any construction, repairs or demolition by or at the direction of Tenant of all or any
part of the New hnprovements, or by reason of any Permitted Contest under Article XIV hereof.
If as a result of the posting of a bond the Lien is removed, such Lien shall cease to be a Lien even
though the obligations theretofore secured by such Lien continue. The tenn "Lien" does not include
any lien of or for Taxes.

Notice is hereby given that Landlord shall not be liable for the cost and expense of any labor,
services (including without limitation real estate brokerage, leasing or management services)
or materials furnished or to be furnished with respect to the Premises at or by the direction
of Tenant or anyone holding the Premises or any part thereof by, through or under Tenant
and that no laborer's, mechanic's or materialman's or other lien (including without
limitation any real estate broker or service provider lien) for any such labor, service or
                                                 14
materials shall attach to or affect the interest of Landlord in and to the Premises. Nothing
contained in this Lease shall be deemed or construed in any way as constituting the consent or
request of Landlord, express or implied, by inference or otherwise, to any contractor,
subcontractor, laborer or materialman for the performance of any labor or the fornishing of any
materials for any improvements or repairs to or of the Premises or any part thereof, nor as giving
Tenant any right, power or authority on behalf of Landlord to contract for or permit the rendering
of any services or the furnishing of any materials that would give rise to the filing of any Lien
against Landlord' s Interest in the Premises or any part thereof.

Any and all Liens created by, through or under Tenant shall attach only to Tenant's leasehold
interest in the Premises. Landlord shall have the right at all times to post and keep posted on the
Premises any notice which it deems necessary for protection from Liens. In case of any Lien
attaching or notice of any Lien attaching to Landlord's Interest as a result of Tenant's actions or
inactions, Tenant shall indemnify, defend, protect, and hold harmless Landlord from any and all
loss, cost, damage, expense and liability (including without limitation court costs and reasonable
attorneys' fees) incurred in connection with or arising from any such Lien or the threat of any such
Lien. The provisions of this Section 7.03 shall survive the expiration or earlier ten11ination of this
Lease.

If Tenant fails to discharge or bond over any Lien created or established in violation of Tenant's
covenant herein and such failure continues for a period of 30 days after receipt by Tenant of written
notice from Landlord of the existence of the Lien, or if Tenant fails to comply with any Regulation
as requir,ed in Section 7 .0 I, and such failure continues for a period of one month after receipt by
Tenant of written notice from Landlord of noncompliance witb any Regulation (provided that if
Tenant in good faith commences to cure such failure to perfonn such Regulation ,vithin said one
month period, said one month period will be extended for such time as Tenant is continuously and
diligently pursuing tl1e cure of such failme), and provided such Lien or Regulation is not being
actively contested by Tenant pursuant to Article XIV hereof or at any time a Lien or Tenant's
failure to comply with a Regulation poses an inuninent threat to Landlord' s title to the Premises,
LancHord, witltout declaring a default hereunder and 'vvithout relieving Tenant of any liability
hereunder, may, but shall not be obligated to, discharge or pay such Lien (either by paying the
amount claimed to be due or by procuring the discharge of such Lien by deposit or by bonding
proceedings) or cause compliance with such Regulation, and any amount so paid by Landlord and
ali costs and expenses incurred by Landlord in connection therewith shall be paid immediately by
Tenant to Landlord within one month after written notice from Landlord demanding payment
(including reasonably detailed supporting infonnation regarding the amounts owed), with Interest
thereon from the date of such written demand by Landlord.

         Landlord's Agreement Relating to Hazardous Substances. Landlord hereby represents
to Tenant that to Landlord's actual knowledge as of the Effective Date, except as may be disclosed
in a certain "Phase I'' environmental assessment of the Site dated _ October 2025 performed by
Wasatch Environmental, Landlord has received no written notice of any Hazardous Substances
on, in, under or adjacent to the Site. Landlord shall indemnify and hold Tenant harmless from any
and all claims, damages, fines, judgments, penalties, costs, liabilities, or losses (including, without
limitation, attorneys' fees, and consultant and expert fees) arising during or after the Tenn as a
result of the breach by Landlord of the representation made in the preceding sentence; provided,
however, the foregoing representation and indemnity excludes matters caused by Tenant or its
agents, employees or contractors, and does not extend to Hazardous Substances first introduced
in, on or to the Site after the Effective Date. The obligations of Landlord under this Section 7.04
                                                  15
shall not be affe.cted by the expiration or tennination of the Term.

                                      ARTICLE VIII
                                REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS

        Maintenance and Repairs. Subject to Landlord's obligations concerning the Plaza
detailed in Article V, throughout the Term Tenant shall at its cost maintain all Improvements on
the Project in good attractive repair and condition at least equal to other "Class A" commercial
developments in Salt Lake County and in accordance with all applicable Laws. Notwithstanding
the foregoing to the contrary, during the last one (1 ) year of the Term, except for Required Repairs
(as hereinafter defined), Tenant will have no obligation to make any repair or replacement that
would be classified as a "capital expense" under generally accepted accounting principles. In this
Lease "Required Repairs" means:

               (a)     Legally-Required Repairs. Those repairs required to be made to the
Premises pursuant to all applicable Laws, taking into account any applicable "grandfathering" of
the Premises as a legal non-conforming use with respect to the same (i.e., Required Repairs do not
include repairs or replacements which would be required to bring the Premises into compliance
with Laws applicable to new construction except to the extent that the Premises are not exempt
from sucli compliance or grandfathered as a legal nonconfonning use);

                (b)     Habitabilitv Revairs . Those r,epairs and replacements required to keep the
Premises in a safe and tenantable condition, such as (without limitation) patching holes or leaks in
the roof, repairs and replacements of mechanical equipment; and

                (c)    Insurance-Required Repairs. Any repairs that are required by insurance
policies and agreements to which Tenant is a party or by which it is bound, then in effect, with
respect to the Premises.

At the expiration or tennination of the Tenn, Landlord shall accept the Premises and all New
Improvements "as-is where-is" (except for Tenant's maintenance and repair obligations set forth
herein and liability with respect to third party claims brought against Landlord relating to Tenant's
failure to repair or restore the Premises). Except for the Plaza, Landlord is not required to make
any repairs or replacements to the Premises whatsoever (including without limitation the roofs,
foundations , all interior and exterior walls, and all stmctural and non-structural portions of the
buildings and other improvements), stmctural or otherwise, ordinary or extraordinary, foreseen
and unforeseen, including without limitation the exterior and interior windows, doors and
entrances, signs, floor coverings, colunms and partitions; and lighting, heating, plumbing and
sewerage facilities, and air conditioning equipment. During tl1e Tenn of this Lease Landlord shall
have no liability whatsoever with respect to any faulty repair or failure to repair the Premises.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if Tenant fails to make timely repairs to the Premises as required
hereunder than Landlord at Landlord's sole option may conduct such repairs on behalf of Tenant,
and Tenant shall reimburse Landlord within one month after written notice from Landlord
demanding payment (including reasonably detailed supporting infonnation) with Interest thereon
from the date of such written demand by Landlord.

        Alterations. From time to time during the Term, Tenant may at is sole cost make additions
or improvements to, or alterations of, the New Improvements provided that (a) the plans and
specifications therefor are pre-approved by Landlord using the same procedures as are provided in

                                                 16
Section 6.03(b) above for the initial New Improvements or otherwise are made in compliance with
the Development Agreement; (b) any such action shall be expeditiously completed in a good and
workmanlike manner in full compliance with this Lease and all applicable Laws, insurance policies
and agreements to which Tenant is a party or by which it is bound, and (c) Tenant shall have
procured and paid for all permits, licenses and other third-party approvals required in connection
therewith. Landlord shall reasonably cooperate with Tenant for the purposes of securing necessary
permits for any additions, improvements or alterations pennitted under this Section 8.02 provided
that Landlord shall not be required to incur any liability or unreimbursed material expense with
respect to the same.

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth above or elsewhere in this Lease, without
obtaining Landlord's approval of any plans therefor, Tenant shall be pennitted to make any
additions, improvements and alterations which (j) do not cause any change in the outside
appearance of the New Improvements; (k) are made with due diligence, in a good and workmanlike
manner, in compliance with all Laws, and in compliance with all insurance policies with respect
to the Premises and agreements to which Tenant is a party or by which it is bound with respect to
the Premises; and (1) are promptly and fully paid for by Tenant.

In no event shall Landlord have the right to review and/or approve any signage installed within the
Premises or the content (i.e., tenant identification signage) of any such signs as long as signage,
both exterior and interior, is approved by City and otherwise complies with all applicable Laws
and Regulations. Tenant shall have the right to add, remove and modify any such signage from
time to time in its sole discretion; provided, however, that Landlord shall have the right to review
and approve in its sole discretion major exterior signage installed upon the New Improvements to
the extent such signage (y) contains any lewd or vulgar message; or (z) may constitute a nuisance
by emitting an unreasonable amount of light.

                                     ARTICLE IX
                               DAMAGE AND DESTRUCTION

        Notice. Tenant shall promptly give written notice to Landlord of any material damage to
or destruction of all or any part of the New Improvements, which notice shall generally describe
the nature and extent of such damage or destruction. There shall be no abatement of or adjustment
to any other payments or obligations of Tenant under this Lease as a result of any such damage or
destruction, unless caused by Landlord's intentional misconduct or gross negligence.

         Restoration. In the event of any damage to or destruction of all or any part of the New
Improvements and whether or not the insurance proceeds on account of such damage or destruction
shall be sufficient for the purpose, Tenant shall at its cost promptly commence thereafter diligently
and prosecute to completion the restoration, replacement or rebuilding of the New Improvements
(such restoration, replacement or rebuilding, together with any temporary repairs and property
protection, are collectively refen-ed to as "Restoration"). T euant may commence and complete the
Restoration without obtaining any consent or approval of or from Landlord so long as the New
Improvements following completion of the Restoration are (a) substantially similar to the New
Improvements prior to the damage or destruction, and (b) in compliance with (i) all Laws, (ii)
Design Plans previously approved by Landlord for the damaged New Improvements; (iii)
insurance policies with respect to the Premises, and (iv) then-effective agreements (including the
Development Agreement) to which Tenant is a party or by which it is bound, with such changes
as are necessary to comply with then-applicable Regulations.
                                                 17
        Optional Termination. If damage to or destruction of a substantial portion of the New
Improvements occurs within the last five years of the Term (i.e., after year 56 of the Initial Term
or after the 10th year of any Extension Term) such that at least 40% of the New Improvements are
unusable for the Pennitted Uses, Tenant shall have the right, at its sole election and in lieu of any
obligation to restore the New Improvements, to tenninate this Lease upon at least two months'
prior written notice to Landlord, which notice shall be delivered to Landlord on or before the date
that is three months after such event of damage or destruction. Any such tennination shall be
conditioned on Tenant also simultaneously paying or offering to pay to Landlord a sum equal to
any outstanding charges or amounts due from Tenant to Landlord as of such termination date, and
by surrendering, or offering to surrender, the Premises to Landlord on or before the effective date
of such termination in a clean, sightly and safe condition, free of all debris and damaged New
Improvements. In c01mection with any such tennination, to the extent any undamaged portion of
the New Improvements is unusable for the Permitted Uses, such New Improvements shall be
demolished by Tenant at its cost as soon as practicable and in compliance with Laws. All insurance
proceeds due on account of such damage or destruction shall be equitably allocated between
Landlord and Tenant, with (a) Tenant's portion limited to damages for Tenant's loss of the New
Improvements and Tenant's leasehold for the remainder of the Tenn (including the Extension
Tem1) subsequent to such dam.age or destruction, and (b) the remainder of the proceeds being
allocated to Landlord for Landlord's damages for loss of the Rent for the remainder of the Term
(including any Extension Term) subsequent to such damage or destruction and loss of the use of
the New Improvements after expiration of any Extension Term.

        Application of Proceeds. Except as otherwise provided in Section 9.02 above, insurance
proceeds received on account of any damage to or destmction of the New Improvements or any
part thereof shall be applied to pay for the cost of Restoration. If any such proceeds e:x,ceed the
costs of Restoration Tenant may r,etain such excess for Tenant's account.

                                           ARTICLEX
                                          INSURANCE

        Classes of Insurance. Commemcing on the Effective Date (regarding the insurance
required by subsection (b] below) and on the date Tenant commences construction of any New
Improvements or alterations on the Site (regarding the insurance required by subsections [a] and
[b] below), and at all times thereafter throughout the entire Term, Tenant shall keep the Project
insured, or shall cause the Premises to be kept insured, against the risks and hazards and with
coverage in amounts not less than those specified as follows:

                 (a)    Casualtv Insurance. Insurance against the risks customarily included under
"all-risks" policies with respect to improved properties similar to the Project in an amount equal
to the "full insurable value" (which as used herein shall mean the full replacement value, including
the costs of debris removal, which amount shall be detennined at least annually during the first
four years of this Lease and every five years thereafter) of the New Improvements. Tenant shall
be entitled to carry a deductible ofup to two percent (2%) of the "full insurable value" of the New
Improvements from time to time in connection with said coverage provided Tenant self-insures
for the amount of the deductible. Tenant hereby further agrees that to the extent available Tenant
will obtain an "agreed amount" endorsement with respect to such insurance so as to prevent either
Landlord or Tenant from becoming a co-insurer of any loss.

               (b)     Liabilitv Insurance. Commercial general liability and property damage
                                                 18
insurance (including without limitation coverage for any construction, reconstruction or alteration
by or at the instance of Tenant on or about the Premises) covering the legal liability of Landlord
and Tenant against all claims for any bodily injury or death of persons and for damage to or
destruction of property occurring on, in or about the Premises and the adjoining streets, sidewalks,
passageways, and parking areas utilized by Tenant or any users or occupants of the Premises in
combined single limits for both property damage and bodily injury and in the minimum amount of
Five Million and No/ 100 Dollars ($5,000,000.00) in Constant Dollars in connection with any
single occurrence. Tenant shall be entitled to carry a deductible of up to $50,000.00 in Constant
Dollars in connection with the said coverage provided Tenant self-insures for the amount of the
deductible.

"Constant Dollars" means and refers to the present value of the dollars to which such phrase refers.
An adjustment shall occur on January I of the fourth calendar year following the Effective Date
of this Lease, and thereafter at five-year intervals. Constant Dollars will be determined by
multiplying the dollar amount to be adjusted by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Current
Index Number and the denominator of which is the Base Index Number. The "Base Index Number"
will be the level of the Index for the month during which the Effective Date occurs; the "Current
Index Number" will be the level of the Index for the month of October of the year preceding the
adjustment year.

"Index" means and refers to th:e Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (U.S. City
Average), published by the Bmeau of Labor Statistics of the United States Department of Labor
(base year 1982-'84 = 100), or any successor index thereto as hereinafter provided. If publication
of the Index is discontinued, or if the basis of calculating the Index is materially changed, then
Tenant (with Landlord's consent, which shall not be withheld or delayed unreasonably) shall
substitute for the Index comparable statistics as compiled by an agency of the United States
Government or, if none is available, by a substantial and responsible period,ical or publication of
nationally recognized authority most closely approximating the result which would have been
achieved by the Index.

        Section 10.03 Requirements. All insurance required under Section 10.0l above shall be
written by companies of recognized financial standing (with a rating of at least A VIII in Best's
Key Rating Guide or otherwise meets a similar standard from a successor rating organization if
Best's Key Rating Guide is unavailable in the future) which are authorized to do insurance business
in the State of Utah and shall expressly provide: (a) with respect to the insurance required by
Section l 0.0 l(a) above, an effective waiver by the insurer of all rights of subrogation against any
additional insured and against such additional insured's interest in the Premises and against any
income derived therefrom; (b) that no cancellation, reduction in amount or material change in
coverage thereof shall be effective until the insurer has endeavored to give at least one month's
written notice thereof to Landlord; and (c) that during construction, reconstmction, alteration or
material remodeling of any New Improvements on the Premises such policies shall be in "builder's
risk" form if there would be an exclusion of coverage under Tenant's all-risks policy as a result of
such construction, reconstruction, alteration or material remodeling. Both Landlord and City shall
be designated as additional insureds under Tenant's commercial general liability policy.

A certificate of insurance in force in fom1 reasonably acceptable to Landlord (and, if requested by
Landlord, a copy of each policy) issued by the insurer as provided in Section 10.01 hereof shall be
delivered to Landlord on or before the date Tenant is required to obtain the applicable insurance,
and with respect to renewal or replacement policies, as soon thereafter as such certificate of
                                                 19
insurance is reasonably available to Tenant after such policy has been renewed or replaced.

Tenant may obtain the insurance required hereunder by endorsement on its blanket insurance
policies, provided that: (x) said policies fulfill the requirements of this Section l 0.02; (y) said
policies reference the Premises; and (z) Landlord receives the certificate of insurance in force with
respect thereto as provided above. Tenant shall permit Landlord to examine all policies evidencing
the insurance required to be maintained by Tenant under this Lease (such requests not to occur
more than once every three (3) years). Nothing contained in this Lease shall be construed to require
Landlord to prosecute any claim against any insurer or to contest any settlement proposed by any
insurer. Landlord and Tenant shall each have included in all policies of fire, extended coverage,
workers compensation, business interruption and loss of rents insurance respectively obtained by
them covering the Premises or the New Improvements or the contents thereof, a waiver by the
insurer of all right of subrogation against the other in connection with any loss or damage thereby
insured against. Any additional premium for such waiver shall be paid by Tenant.

         Subtenant Requirements. Tenant shall cause all subtenants in the Project to maintain
Commercial General Liability Insurance covering against claims of bodily injury, personal injury
and property damage arising out of the respective subtenants' operations, assumed liabilities or
use of the Project, including a Broad Form Commercial General Liability endorsement, for limits
ofliability not less th.an $1,000,000.00 for each occurrence and $2,000,000.00 annual aggregate in
Constant Dollars. AH insurance required by subtenants pursuant to this Section 10.03 shall be
written by companies of recognized financial standing whiclt are authorized to do insurance
business in the Utah and shall expressly provide (if commerciaHy available) that no cancellation,
reduction in amount or material change in coverage thereof shall be effective until the insurer has
endeavored to give at least one month's written notice thereof to Tenant.

         Certificates. Within 15 days after receipt of written request from Landlord (but in no
event more often than twice annually), Tenant shall execute and deliver to Landlord a certificate
from its insurers addressed to Landlord that is dated within one month prior to tl1e delivery thereof
and which lists the insurers and policy numbers evidencing aU the other insurance then required to
be maintained by Tenant hereunder.

If Tenant fails to obtain, maintain or renew any insurance provided for in this Article X or to pay
the premiums therefor, or to deliver to Landlord any of such certificates, Landlord may, but shall
not be obligated to, procure such insurance, pay the premiums therefor or obtain such certificates,
and any costs or expenses incurred by Landlord for such purposes shall be immediately paid by
Tenant to Landlord upon demand by Landlord with Interest thereon from the date of demand by
Landlord.

                                         ARTICLE XI
                                      INDEMNIFICATION

        Without limiting or modifying any other provision in this Lease, and except to the extent
resulting from Landlord's gross negligence or intentional misconduct, Tenant covenants and
agrees to pay, defend, indemnify and save harmless Landlord from and against any and all liability,
loss, damage, cost, expense (including without limitation reasonable and actual attorneys' fees and
expenses of Landlord), causes of action, suits, claims, demands or judgments of any nature
whatsoever resulting from the negligence or willful misconduct or omission of Tenant or its agents,
contractors or employees during the Term of this Lease. If any action or proceeding should be
                                                 20
brought against Landlord based upon any such claim and if Tenant causes such action or
proceeding to be defended at Tenant's expense by counsel reasonably approved by Landlord
without any disclaimer of liability by the Tenant in com1ection with such claim, then Tenant shall
not be required to indemnify Landlord for additional attorneys' fees in connection with such action
or proceeding. This Article XI shall survive the expiration or termination ofthis Lease.

                                    ARTICLE XII
                          OWNERSHIP OF NEW IMPROVEMENTS

          Section 12.02 Title to New Improvements. Title to the New Improvements constructed
by Tenant shall, during the Tenn, be in Tenant; provided, however, that notwithstanding such title,
the tenns and conditions of this Lease shall govern the construction, use, and operation of the New
Improvements and the exercise of Tenant's rights with respect thereto and that fee simple title to
the Site shall at all times remain with Landlord. Upon the termination or expiration of this Lease,
title to all New hnprovements (other than trade fixtures) th.en located on the Premises shall vest in
and become the full and absolute property of Landlord without need of any further action being
taken by Tenant or Landlord, and Tenant shall immediately surrender possession of the New
Improvements then located on the Premises upon such tem1ination or expiration as provided in
Section l 2.02 hereof The title to the New Improvements so received by Landlord shall be
unencumbered except for the Pennitted Title Exceptions and otherwise free and clear of all claims,
liens and encumbrances created by, through or under Tenant. The value or cost of the New
Improvements constructed by Tenant shall not in any way constitute a substitute for or a credit
against any obligation of Tenant tmder this Lease to pay other payments or obligations of Tenant
under this Lease.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon the expiration or earlier tennination of this Lease, Tenant
shaU execute and deliver to Landlord: (a) such instrument(s) reasonably required by Landlord
evidencing tile transfer of all right, title and interest of Tenant in and to all New Improvements to
Landlor~ (b) a bill of sale transferring all right, title and interest of Tenant in and to all personal
property located upon and/or related to the Premises and/or the New Improvements that is not
owned by subtenants of the Project; and (iii) an assignment of all of Tenant's right, title and
interest, if any, in and to any intangible prope1ty related to the Premises and/or the New
Improvements including, but not limited to, trademarks and trade names used exclusively in
connection with the Project.

Without limiting the foregoing, until such time as Landlord becomes the owner of the New
Improvements, Tenant and its successors and assigns successors shall be entitled to all the tax
attributes of ownership of the New Improvements, including, without limitation, the right to claim
depreciation or cost recovery deductions and the right to claim federal tax credits associated with
such New Improvements pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code, and the right to amortize all
capital costs, and to claim any and all other federal or state tax benefits attributable to such New
Improvements.

        Surrender. Upon the expiration or any te1mination of this Lease:

             (a)    Tenant shall peaceably quit and surrender the Premises and all New
Improvements to Landlord.

               (b)     Landlord shall accept the Premises and, except as provided below m

                                                  21
subsection (e), all New Improvements "as-is where-is." At that time Tenant also shall execute and
deliver to Landlord such deeds, bills of sale or the like as Landlord reasonably may request to
further evidence and document such conveyance to Landlord of the New Improvements free and
clear of all liens and encumbrances not created by, through or under Tenant.

               (c)     Except as provided below in subsection (e) and Tenant's obligation to make
any Required Repairs, Tenant will have no obligation to repair or restore the Premises or New
Improvements, nor any liability for failure to repair or r.estore the Premises or New Improvements
(except for liability with respect to any third party claims brought against Landlord relating to
Tenant's failure to repair or restore the Premises).

              (d)      Tenant shall assure that all leases, rental agreements and the like
wherew.1der anyone can claim the right to occupy any of the Project are freely tenninable within
no longer than one month after the end of the Term. Tenant will indemnify, defend and hold
Landlord harmless from and against all claims, damages, costs, expenses, actions and proceedings
arising from or attributable to Tenant's failure to surrender the New Improvements and right to
occupy the Project as provided herein.

               (e)     If (i) public monies (such as Available Bond Funds, TIF funds or other
public monies as described in the Development Agreement) are provided to defray Tenant's cost
to demolish any of the Old Improvements, and (ii) Landlord so directs Tenant in writing at or
within three months after expiration or earlier termination of this Lease, then within 12 months
after termination of this Lease Tenant shall at Tenant's cost demolish or othenvise remove all
above- and below-ground New Improvements specified by Landlord and otherwise return the Site
to Landlord in comparable condition as foUowing removal of the Old Improvements on the Site
through use of such public £unds; provided, however, that Tenant's out-of-pocket cost of such
removal shall not exceed the amount (in Constant Dollars) of public monies provided to demolish
the Old Improvements.

                (f)     Tenant shall have the right within ten {lO) business days after termination
or expiration of this Lease to remove from the Premises all furniture, inventory, trade fixtures,
signs, sign panels (but not any pylon or monument unless specified by Landlord) or other personal
property of Tenant ( collectively, " Tenant's Property"); provided, however, that if Tenant fails to
remove all or any portion of Tenant's Property from the Premises within ten (10) business days
after the termination or expiration of this Lease, Tenant's Property shall automatically become the
sole and exclusive property of Landlord (notwithstanding any rights or security interests of any
Leasehold Mortgagee, which shall automatically be subordinate to Landlord's rights under this
Section 12.02), and Landlord may sell, dispose of, use, or keep such Tenant's Property as Landlord
shall choose. In no event shall any built-in or attached machinery and equipment (other than trade
fixtures) used in and necessary to the operation of the New Improvements be removed by Tenant
before or at the expiration of the Term unless othenvise directed by Landlord in writing.

        Waiver of Landlord's Lien. Tenant and its subtenants shall have the right, without
Landlord's consent, to finance the furniture, inventory, trade fixtures and personal property of
Tenant and its subtenants at the Premises and grant liens and security interest in such items. Subject
to Landlord's rights under Section 12.02 of this Lease, and provided Tenant is not in default under
this Lease, Landlord waives and releases any and all statutory landlord's liens with respect to
Tenant's furniture, inventory, trade fixtures or other personal property of Tenant. Within 15 days
after written request therefor Landlord shall deliver a written confirmation in favor of Tenant's
                                                 22
lender of the waiver set forth in this Section 12.03 in form reasonably acceptable to Tenant's
lender.

                                    ARTICLE XIII
                         TRANSFERS; LEASEHOLD MORTGAGES

Transfer and Assignment.

             (a)    Definitions. In this Section 13.01 the following terms shall have the
following meanings:

                        (i)    ''Assignment" means the sale, exchange, assignment or other
disposition of all or any portion of Tenant's interest in this Lease or the leasehold estate created
hereby, whether by operation of law or otherwise.

                       (ii)     "Assignee" means an assignee under an Assignment.

                       (iii) "Major Sublease" means a sublease of all or substantially all the
Premises for all or substantially ali of the remaining Tenn of this Lease where the Subtenant will
not occupy all or substantially all of the Premises.

                       (iv)     "Major Subtenant" means a Subtenant under a Major Sublease.

                   (v)    "Original Developers" means Onyx Development, LLC and Thrive
Development, LLC, both Utah limited liability companies.

                      (vi)   "Original Principals" means (A) Ken Melby and Scot Neff, the
individuals who were the principals of Original Developer Onyx Development, LLC as of 16 May
2025, and (B) Steve Broadbent and Gregg C. Johnson, the individuals who were the principals of
Original Developer Thrive Development, LLC as of 16 May 2025. If all those individuals die or
become disabled (under applicable Social Security standards) before the Project Substantial
Completion Date (defined below), then another qualified individual selected by Tenant and
reasonably acceptable to Landlord will become the Original Principal for purposes of Section
13. 0 l (b), below.

                        (vii) "Transfer" means (A) the sale, assignment, redemption or transfer
of more than forty-nine percent (49%) of the stock, membership interest or other equity ownership
("Stock") in in any entity that is Tenant, or (B) the issuance of additional Stock in any entity that
is Tenant that would result in a change of more than forty-nine percent (49%) in vote or value of
the equity ownership of such entity from the time when such entity became Tenant, or (C) a change
in ownership or control of Stock that otherwise would effect a practical change in control of the
entity that is Tenant, but (D) excludes (1) transfers of a Stock or partnership or limited liability
company interests by the owner thereof to one or more immediate family members, or to a trust
for the benefit of such immediate family members or to an entity owned exclusively by such
inunediate family members, and (2) transfers of any interest in any entity described in clause (A)
or clause (B) above whose Stock is publicly traded on a national or regional exchange or which is
listed in the NASDAQ system.

                       (viii)   "Transferee" means a person to which a Transfer is made.

                                                23
               (b)     Before the Proiect Substantial Completion Date. Before the date of
substantial completion of the Project's New Improvements (the "Project Substantial Completion
Date") Tenant shall not without Landlord's prior written consent (i) enter into any Assignment or
Major Sublease to take effect before the Project Substantial Completion Date, or (ii) allow any
Transfer to take effect. Notwithstanding such prohibition, before the Project Substantial
Completion Date Tenant may upon prior written notice to Landlord assign its interest in this Lease
to one or more mortgagees as collateral security as part of a Leasehold Mortgage (defined below)
and may assign its interest in this Lease to any purchaser upon the foreclosure of any Leasehold
Mortgage or to any Leasehold Mortgagee (defined below) or its designee in lieu of any such
foreclosure. Nothing herein set forth shall require Tenant to obtain Landlord's consent to a
Sublease that is not a Major Sublease (either before or after the Project Substantial Completion
Date).

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 13(b), however, before the Project
Substantial Completion Date Tenant may without Landlord's consent at any time effect or enter
into an Assignment or Transfer (each a "Permitted Transferee") so long as the entity that is the
"Tenant" under this Lease remains solely managed and operationally controlled by one or more of
the Original Principals (whether individually or as the sole manager(s) of an Original Developer
or other entity) and is not a Prohibited Person (defined below). In the case of such Assignment or
Transfer, such successor entity (the "Successor") shall assume in writing Tenant's obligations
under this Agreement and at least 20 days before the effective date of such assignment Tenant
shall provide Landlord (ix) written notice ofsuch assignment, and (x) a written opinion of Tenant's
counsel (Kirton McConkie) in such fonn as may be reasonably acceptable to Landlord that one or
more of the Original Principals is, and shall until at least the Project Substantial Completion Date
remain, in sole managerial and operational control of the Successor.

Always provided, however, that no Event of Default then exists or 1s ongoing beyond the
applicable cure period.

               (c)     Alter the Proiect Substantial Completion Date. After the Project Substantial
Completion Date, Tenant shall have the right, upon prior notice to Landlord but without Landlord's
consent, to enter into any Assignment or Major Sublease, and/or to allow any Transfers, as long
as such transaction shall not cause Tenant or any Major Subtenant to be any of the following (a
"Prohibited Person"):

                        (i)     Any person (A) that has been convicted in a criminal proceeding for
a felony or any crime involving moral turpitude or that is an organized crime figure or is reputed
to have substantial business or other affiliations with an organized crime figure, or (B) that, directly
or indirectly, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with a person that has been
convicted in a criminal proceeding for a felony or any crime involving moral turpitude or that is
an organized crime figure or is reputed to have substantial business or other affiliations with an
organized crime figure;

                         (ii)   Any government, or any person that is directly or indirectly
controlled by a government, that is finally determined to be in violation of (including, but not
limited to, any participant in an international boycott in violation of) the Export Administration
Act of 1979, or its successor, or the regulations issued pursuant thereto, or any government that is,
or any person that, directly or indirectly, is controlled (rather than only regulated) by a government
that is subject to the regulations or controls thereof; or
                                                  24
                       (iii) Any government, or any person (A) that is currently identified on
the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List maintained by the Office of Foreign
Assets Control, Department of the Treasury ("OFAC') and/or on any other similar list maintained
by OFAC pursuant to any authorizing statute, executive order or regulation (collectively, the
"List"), or (B) with whom a citizen of the United States is prohibited to engage in transactions by
any trade embargo, economic sanction, or other prohibition of United States law, regulation, or
Executive Order of the President of the United States, or (C) that is an Embargoed Person. The
term "Embargoed Person" means any Person, entity or government subject to trade restrictions
under U.S. law, including but not limited to, the International Emergency Economic Powers Act,
50 U.S.C.A. §§ 1701 et seq., The Trading with the Enemy Act, 50 U.S.C.A. App. 1 et seq., and
any Executive Orders or regulations promulgated thereunder.

                (d)     Landlord Consent. If Landlord's consent is required under this section, then
the Parties shall proceed as described in this paragraph. Tenant shall provide to Landlord (subject
to such written confidentiality covenants from Landlord as either Tenant or the proposed transferee
reasonably may require) the pertinent information concerning the Transfer, including the nature of
the Transfer; the timing of the Transfer; the identity of the proposed transferee; and information
concerning the transferee's financial capacity and operational experience (the " Transaction
Information"). Within ten business days after its receipt of the Transaction fnfom1ation, Landlord
shall either (a) provide written approval of the Transfer to Tenant, or (b) meet with Tenant to
discuss any aspect of the proposed Transfer that is reasonably unacceptable to Landlord, in which
case the Parties shall exped,itiously work together in good faith to resolve any unacceptable aspects
of the proposed Transfer. If Landlord fails to so act, then the Transfer shall be deemed approved.

               (e)     Certain Specific Transfers. Provided Tenant is not in default under any
provision of this Lease beyond the applicable cure period, and in accordance with the above
provisions of Section 13.0l, Tenant may, from time to time throughout the Tenn:

                      (i)     Leasehold Mortgages. As provided in Section 13.02 below, grant a
Leasehold Mortgage on Tenant's leasehold interest under this Lease and Tenant's ownership
interest in the New Improvements, or any part thereof, as security for any bona fide indebtedness
that Tenant may incur, whether by deed to secure debt, mortgage, deed of trust or other security
instrument; provided, however that such mortgage, pledge or hypothecation shall be subject and
subordinate to Landlord's fee simple interest in the Site and Landlord's rights to collect any sums
due hereunder and otherwise made in accordance with this Lease.

                       (ii)    Subtenants. Sublet all or any portion of the Premises (except under
a prohibited Major Sublease) to Tenant's tenants, subtenants, renters, etc. of the Premises
("Subtenants") through the execution of leases, subleases or the like having terms that are less than
the balance of the Term ("Subleases"). All Subleases shall be subject to and subordinate to this
Lease. Unless Landlord otherwise expressly agrees in writing, the Sublease of a portion of the
Premises shall not effect a release of Tenant from any of Tenant's obligations contained herein.

               13.02 Leasehold Mortgaging.

               (a)     No Subordination. Landlord's right, title and interest under this Lease and
in the Premises are not subordinate to the lien, priority and security title of any encumbrance of
Tenant's right, title and interest in the New Improvements, Tenant's leasehold interest in the
Premises, and/or under this Lease as security for any indebtedness Tenant may incur, whether by
                                                 25
deed to secure debt, mortgage, deed of tru st or other security instmment (all or any one of which
are "Leasehold Mortgage," and the owner(s) or holder(s) of all or any of which are a '(Leasehold
Mortgagee"). Without limiting the foregoing, Landlord's right to receive any Rent or other
amounts due from Tenant to Landlord hereunder shall have priority over any rights of any
Leasehold Mortgagee under a Leasehold Mortgage.

                (b)     Tenant's Right of Encumbrance. Subject to the requirements of this
Section 13.02, Tenant shall have the right without Landlord' s consent to create and convey a
Leasehold Mortgage as security for any bona fide indebtedness that Tenant may incur. Landlord
shall not be deemed to have notice of any Leasehold Mmtgage unless and until written notice of
such Leasehold Mortgage shall have first been delivered to Landlord as provided in Section 18.13
hereof notwithstanding any other form of notice to Landlord, whether actual or constructive. Upon
written request, Landlord shall enter into a non-disturbance and attornment agreement (or a
commercially reasonable substitute document) with any Leasehold Mortgagee, and Tenant shall
use its good faith efforts to cause such Leasehold Mortgagee to enter into a subordination
agreement with Landlord. The final form of such agreements is subject to the approval of all the
parties thereto, which shall not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed.

               (c)    Leasehold Mortgagee's Cure Rights. If Landlord receives from Tenant or
from a Leasehold Mortgagee written notice as provided in Section 18.13 hereof specifying the
name and address of such Leasehold Mortgagee and reGiuesting that Landlord give to such
Leasehold Mortgagee a copy of each notice of default by Tenant at the same time as and whenever
any such notice of default shall thereafter be given by Landlord to Tenant, then:

                      (i)    Landlord shall comply with such request by giving such notice,
addressed to such Leasehold Mortgagee at the address last furnished to Landlord, with respect to
each default by Tenant occurring on or after the date of Landlord 's receipt of such notice; and

                      (ii)

                            (A)    If such default is a default in the payment of any sum due
hereunder, such Leasehold Mortgagee will have the right to cure such default for the longer of the
time period afforded to Tenant under this Lease or one month after receipt by such Leasehold
Mortgagee of such notice;

                              (B)    If such default is a default in observing or performing any
other covenant or condition to be observed or perfonned by Tenant hereunder, and such default
can be cured by such Leasehold Mortgagee without obtaining possession of the Premises, such
Leasehold Mortgagee will have the right to cure such default for the longer of the time period
afforded to Tenant under this Lease or two months after receipt of such notice; provided, however,
in the case of a default that cannot with diligence be cured, or the curing of which cannot be
commenced, within such two months, such Leasehold Mortgagee shall have such additional period
as may be necessary to cure such default with diligence and continuity; or

                              (C)    If such default is a default that can only be cured by such
Leasehold Mortgagee upon obtaining possession of the Premises, the time period afforded to such
Leasehold Mortgagee to cure such default will include the time necessary to obtain such possession
with diligence and continuity, through a receiver or otherwise, and an additional two months after
obtaining such possession; provided, however, in the case of a default that cannot with diligence

                                               26
be cured, or the curing of which cannot be commenced, within such period of two months, such
Leasehold Mortgagee shall have such additional period as may be necessary to cure such default
with diligence and continuity.

Landlord shall accept perfonnance by any Leasehold Mortgagee of any covenant, condition or
agreement on Tenant's part to be performed hereunder with the same force and effect as though
performed by Tenant, if at the time of such perfonnance (or prior thereto) Landlord shall be (or
shall have been) furnished with evidence reasonably satisfactory to Landlord of the interest in this
Lease claimed by the Leasehold Mortgagee tendering such perfonnance.

                (d)      Acquisition bv Leasehold Mortgagee Via Foreclosure. If any Leasehold
Mortgagee (or its affiliate) acquires title to Tenant's interest in this Lease by any sale, assignment
or transfer of Tenant's interest in this Lease (including the New Improvements or Tenant's
leasehold interest in the Premises) in any proceeding for the foreclosure of any Leasehold
Mortgage, or the assignment or transfer of Tenant's interest in this Lease under any instrument of
assignment or transfer in lieu of the foreclosure of, or exercise of power of private sale under, any
Leasehold Mortgage (collectively, "Foreclosure" ), such transfer via Foreclosure shall be a
permitted transfer of Tenant's interest under this Lease. If any Leasehold Mortgagee (or its
affiliate) acquires title to Tenant's interest in this Lease by Foreclosure, or enters into a new lease
with Landlord as provided in Section 13.02(£) hereof, such Leasehold Mortgagee may assign this
Lease (or such new lease) subject to and in accordance with the provisions and conditions of this
Section l3.02 and such Leasehold Mortgagee shall thereupon be released from any further liability
for perfonnance or observance by Tenant of this Lease (or by th:e tenant of such new lease) after
the date of such assignment, but not with respect to the period of time in which such Leasehold
Mortgagee held title to such interest, for which such Leasehold Mortgagee shall remain liable (but
not for :any obligations that may have arisen prior to the Leasehold Mortgagee succeeding to
Tenant's interest under this Lease).

                 (e)     Acquisition bv Foreclosure Purchaser. The purchaser at any Foreclosure
sale of Tenant's interest in this Lease shall be deemed to be a pennitted assignee or transferee of
this Lease. Any Leasehold Mortgagee or other acquirer of Tenant's interest in this Lease pursuant
to Foreclosure, or who becomes the tenant under a new lease, and each subsequent acquirer of
Tenant's interest in this Lease or of the tenant's interest in the new lease (collectively, the
"Successor"), shall become liable for the perfonnance or observation of any covenants or
conditions to be perfonned or observed by Tenant that may arise after the Successor succeeds
Tenant's interest to the extent that such Successor becomes the owner of all or a portion ofTenant's
interest hereunder. Any Successor shall be liable for (i) the perfonnance and observance of such
covenants and conditions for the period of time arising after the Successor succeeds to Tenant's
interest, and (ii) any defaults by such Successor occurring during the period it is the owner of such
interest of Tenant under this Lease (collectively, the "Successor Liabilities" ). Each Successor,
upon acquiring Tenant's interest in this Lease or the tenant's interest in the new lease, may only
sell, transfer, mortgage, encumber, convey or assign Tenant's interest in this Lease or the tenant's
interest in the new lease in accordance with the terms and conditions of Section 13.0 l of this Lease,
and thereafter be relieved of all obligations under this Lease or the new lease to be performed from
and after the date of such assignment, but not relieved of the Successor Liabilities that may have
arisen p1ior to such transfer of the Successor's interest.

               (f)    Possible New Lease. If this Lease is tenninated by Landlord or any court
(including without limitation a bankmptcy court), or is rejected or disaffinned in any proceeding
                                                  27
in any such court, any Leasehold Mortgagee or a person designated by such Leasehold Mortgagee
shall have the right, exercisable by written notice to Landlord (a "New Lease Notice" ) within 15
days after the effective date of such tennination, rejection or disaffirmance, to enter into a New
Lease (as hereinafter defined) of the Premises with Landlord on equivalent terms and conditions
as this Lease. Upon Landlord's receipt of the New Lease Notice, Landlord will promptly prepare
the New Lease and deliver same to Leasehold Mortgagee. Following Leasehold Mortgagee's
timely delivery of the New Lease Notice and provided the parties have satisfied all the terms and
conditions of this Article 13, Landlord and Leasehold Mortgagee (or its designee) shall enter into
the New Lease within a reasonable time after Leasehold Mortgagee' s delivery of the New Lease
Notice; provided, however, such New Lease shall be deemed to be automatically effective as of
the tennination date of this Lease.

As used herein, the tenn "New Lease" shall mean a new lease of the Premises, effective as of the
tennination date of this Lease, for the remainder of the Term of this Lease considered as if this
Lease had not been tenninated, with Leasehold Mortgagee (or its designee), on all the same terms
and provisions of this Lease and in the same fonn as this Lease, but shall not include any initial
construction requirements that have already been performed.

As a condition to Leasehold Mortgagee's ability to enter into a New Lease hereunder and
Landlord's obligation to enter into any sucl1 New Lease, (i) Leasehold Mortgagee shall have cured
all defaults of Tenant hereunder that are susceptible of being cured by the payment of money
(including without limitation any interest or late fees due) contemporaneously with the delivery of
the New Lease Notice; and (ii) Leasehold Mortgagee shall have agreed to cure with reasonable
diligence all then-uncured non-monetary defaults within a reasonable period after the delivery of
the New Lease Notice. The New Lease shall a[so require tl1e tenant thereunder to indemnify, hold
hannless, and defend Landlord from and against any and all claims of the original Tenant under
this Lease as a result of any actions brought by the original Tenant under the Leasehold M011gage
including, without limitation, any New Lease granted hereunder. This Section 13.02(£) shaU
survive the tem1ination of this Lease and shall continue in full force and effect thereafter to the
same extent as if this provision were a separate and independent contract among Landlord, Tenant
and each Leasehold Mortgagee.

               (g)     Receiver. As a condition to the rights granted to any Leasehold Mortgagee
hereunder, such Leasehold Mortgagee shall covenant that upon the occurrence of an Event of
Default that continues beyond all notice and cure periods afforded to Tenant hereunder (exclusive
of any Leasehold Mortgagee notice and cure periods) Leasehold Mortgagee shall apply to a court
of competent jurisdiction for the immediate ex pa rte appointment of a receiver for the Premises,
with such application to occur promptly following receipt of notice of any such Event of Default
that continues beyond all notice and cure periods afforded to Tenant hereunder ( exclusive of any
Leasehold Mortgagee notice and cure periods). Tenant hereby consents to such appointment.

Such receiver shall operate and manage the Premises for the mutual benefit of Tenant, Leasehold
Mortgagee and Landlord pursuant to the tenns and conditions of this Lease until Leasehold
Mortgagee or a Successor (but not prior to the delivery of a New Lease Notice), or Landlord, as
applicable, gains possession of the Premises. This Section 13.02(g) shall survive the termination
of this Lease and shall continue in full force and effect thereafter to the same extent as if this
provision were a separate and independent contract among Landlord, Tenaut and each Leasehold
Mortgagee.

                                                28
                (h)    Tenant Liabilitv. Tenant shall pay, defend, indemnify and save harmless
Landlord from and against any and all liability, loss, damage, cost, expense (including without
limitation reasonable and actual attorneys' fees and expenses of Landlord), causes of action, suits,
claims, demands or judgments of any nature whatsoever resulting from the actions or omissions
of Leasehold Mortgagee relative to the Leasehold Mortgage. If any action or proceeding is brought
against Landlord based upon any such claim, then upon notice from Landlord, Tenant shall cause
such action or proceeding to be defended at Tenant's expense and without any disclaimer of
liability by Tenant in connection with such claim. This Section 13.02(h) shall survive the
expiration or termination of this Lease.

                 (i)     Satisfaction of Leasehold Mortgages. All Leasehold Mortgages shall be
fully satisfied and all related liens and encumbrances on the Project released no later than the end
of the Tenn of this Lease or any New Lease.

               (j)      Leasehold Mortgagee as Loss Pavee. Tenant has the right, in connection
with obtaining and maintaining casualty insurance on the Premises as may be required by the
Leasehold Mortgagee, to name tbe Leasehold Mortgagee as a loss payee pursuant to a mortgagee's
loss payable endorsement acceptable to the Leasehold Mortgagee, subject to the application of the
proceeds of any such insurance as otherwise required by this Lease. In addition to the foregoing,
Landlord agrees that the Leasel10M Mortgagee wiU be named as an additional insured to any and
all insurance policies required to be carried by Landlord.

                                        ARTICLE XIV
                                     RIGHT TO CONTEST

         Tenant at its sole cost and expense may contest by appropriate legal proceedings conducted
in good faith and with due diligence (a "Pennitted Contest") the amount, validity or application,
in whole or in part, of any Taxes or Charges referred to in Section 4.0 l and Section 4.02 b:ereof,
any Regulation referred to in Section 7.01 hereof or any Lien referred to in Section 7.03 hereof;
provided, however, that: (a) Tenant sltall give Landlord prior written notice of each sucll contest;
(b) Tenant shall first make all contested payments (under protest if it desires) unless such
proceeding shall suspend the collection thereof from Landlord or from the Premises; (c) no part of
the Premises or any interest tlierein under this Lease shall be subjected thereby to sale, forfeiture,
foreclosure or interference; ( d) Landlord shall not be exposed thereby to any civil or criminal
liability for failure to comply with any Regulation and the Premises shall not be subject to the
imposition of any Lien as a result of such failure; and (e) Tenant shall have furnished any security
required in such proceeding or under this Lease to ensure payment of any Taxes, Charges, Lien or
compliance with any Regulation.

Tenant shall pay and save Landlord harmless from and against any and all losses, judgments,
decrees and costs (including all attorneys' fees and expenses) in connection with any Pem1itted
Contest. Within one month (or earlier if required by the final detem1ination) after the final
detennination of every Permitted Contest, Tenant shall fully pay and discharge the amounts which
shall be levied, assessed, charged or imposed or be determined to be payable therein, together with
all penalties, fines, interest, costs and expenses resulting therefrom, and further shall promptly
comply with any Regulation under which compliance is required in such final detennination.

                                           ARTICLE XV
                                            DEFAULT
                                                 29
        Events of Default. The occurrence of any of the following acts, events or conditions shall
constitute an "Event ofDefault" under this Lease, notwithstanding the pendency of any proceeding
which has or might have the effect ofpreventing Tenant from complying with the terms, conditions
or covenants of this Lease:

                (a)     Any Rent payment or other sum of money due under this Lease is not paid
within ten (l 0) days after its due date and such failure continues for ten (10) additional days after
written notice from Landlord (a "Monetary Default Notice") describing such failed payment (a
"Monetary Default") and specifying the payment amount needed to cure the Monetary Default.
The amount described in a Monetary Default Notice which is needed to cure such Monetary
Default shall specify and include a late fee (the "Late Fee") of ten percent (10%) of the first $5,000
of any missed payment plus five percent ( 5%) of the amount of such missed payment in excess of
$5,000. Tenant also shall pay all costs (including legal fees and costs) that Landlord incurs in
collecting an uncured Monetary Default and Late Fee;

               (b)     Any attempt by Tenant to make any sale, assignment or other transfer of
this Lease or any interest of Tenant hereunder or in the Premises or to sublet the Premises without
full compliance with all requirements therefor set forth in Article XIII of this Lease;

                (c)     If Tenant becomes subject to any voluntary or involuntary proceeding m1der
Title 11, United States Code, or any other or successor state or federal statute on assignment for
the benefit of creditors, appointment of a receiver (excluding a receiver appointed at the request of
a Leasehold Mortgagee) or trustee, bankruptcy, composition, insolvency, moratorium,
reorganization, or similar matters (except an involuntary proceeding that is contested with
diligence and continuity and is vacated and discharged within 60 days after 1commencement); or if
a custodian, receiver (except one appointed at the request of a Leasehold Mortgagee for a
Leasehold Mortgage foreclosure) or trustee is appointed to take possession of (or an attaclnnent,
execution or other judicial seizure is made for) substantially all of Tenant's assets or Tenant's
interest in this Lease (1.mless that appointment, attachment, execution or oth,e r seizure was
involuntary and is contested with diligence and continuity and is vacated and discharged within 60
days after commencement); or

                (d)     The failure or refusal of Tenant at any time during the Tem1 to fulfill or
perform any other covenant, agreement or obligation of Tenant under this Lease except a Monetary
Default, if such failure or refusal continues without correction for a period of thirty (30)
consecutive calendar days from and after notice thereof to Tenant; provided, however, that if such
covenant, agreement or obligation is of such nature that it could not be reasonably fulfilled or
performed within thirty (30) days, then an Event of Default shall not be deemed to have occurred
if Tenant in good faith commences to fulfill or perfom1 same within said thirty (30) day period and
thereafter continuously and diligently proceeds therewith until completion.

      Remedies. Upon the occurrence and during the continuation of an Event of Default,
Landlord's sole and exclusive remedies will be to pursue one or more of the following:

               (a)    Exercise self-help to cure the Event of Default, whereupon notwithstanding
anything in this Lease to the contrary Landlord and its agents, employees, representatives, and
contractors may enter the Premises upon at least ten days' prior written notice (except in the case
of emergency in which case only reasonable notice under the circumstances shall be required) and
pursue such cure, and Tenant shall reimburse Landlord the reasonable and actual costs to cure such
                                                 30
Event of Default within 30 days after receipt of invoice and reasonable supporting documentation;

                (b)    Subject to Landlord's duty to mitigate its damages, declare i1m11ediately due
and payable all amounts due or to become due hereunder for the remainder of the Term (i.e., if
such default occurs during the Initial Term then the measure of damages shall be the remainder of
the Initial Tem1 and if such a default occurs during the Extended Tenn the measure of damages
shall be the remainder of the Extended Term);

                (c)     Seek any available equitable remedies, including without limitation,
injunctive relief and specific performance;

               (d)     Subject to Landlord's duty to mitigate its damages, sue Tenant for collection
of past due smns, any Interest owed by Tenant to Landlord hereunder, and all accelerated amounts
for the remainder of the Term; and/or

                (e)     Upon at least sixty (60) days' additional prior written notice frnm Landlord
to Tenant specifying the Event of Default and the actions which Tenant must take to cure the same,
Landlord may tenninate the Lease and thereafter enter upon and take possession of the Premises
if (i) Tenant fails to cure a Monetary Default within ten (10) business days after written notice
from Landlord specifying such Monetary Default, or (ii) Tenant fails to co1m11ence to any other
Event of Default within thirty (30) days after written notice from Landlord specifying such default
and T•enan,t thereafter diligently pursues to completion fulfillment of such curative action.

In connection with Landlord's exercise of any or all of the above-listed remedies Landlord shall
be entitled to recover all costs and expenses incurred by Landlord in tbe repossession, recove1y,
storage, repair, maintenance, sale, re-lease or other disposition of the Premises or New
Improvements, including without limitation reasonable attorney fees and costs incurred in
connection th.erewith or otlterwise resulting ,or arising from Tenant' s default, and any indemnity if
then determinalble, plus Interest on all of the above until paid (both before and after judgment). In
the event of invobmtary repossession by Landlord through judicial proceedings, or through a
foreclosure sale or other disposition, Tenant hereby waives any requirement that Landlord post a
bond. In all events, Landlord will exercise commercially reasonable efforts to mitigate Landlord' s
damages upon tlte occurrence of an uncured event of default by Tenant.

Landlord hereby waives its right to seek any other remedy as a result of any ,ongoing Event of
Default.

         General. No course of dealing between Landlord and Tenant or any failure or delay on
the part of Landlord in exercising any rights of Landlord under Section 15 .02 hereof or under any
other provisions of this Lease shall operate as a waiver of any rights of Landlord under this Lease,
nor shall any waiver of an Event of Default on one occasion operate as a waiver of any subsequent
or other Event of Default. No express waiver shall affect any condition, covenant, rule, or
regulation other than the one specified in such waiver and that one only for the time and in the
manner specifically stated. The exercise by Landlord of any one or more of the rights and remedies
provided in this Lease shall not prevent the subsequent exercise by Landlord of any one or more
of the other rights and remedies herein provided.

      Section 15.04 Landlord's Default. Landlord shall be in default under this Lease if
Landlord fails to timely perfonn any of Landlord's obligations under this Lease and such failure

                                                 31
continues for at least thirty (30) days after Tenant provides a written notice specifying such default
to Landlord. If Landlord fails to timely cure such default, Tenant may pursue any and all remedies
that are available to Tenant in law or equity, including without limitation tennination of this Lease
and specific perfonnance. If this Lease is terminated due to Landlord's default, then the New
Improvements will remain owned by Tenant for the balance of the original Term.

                                         ARTICLE XVI
                                        CONDEMNATION

         Total Condemnation. If during the Term (a) all of the Premises or New Improvements is
condemned or taken by the United States or any other legal ,entity having the power of eminent
domain with respect thereto, or is transferred to the United States or such entity in lieu thereof, or
(b) if such portion of the Premises or New Improvements shall be so condemned or taken such that
the remaining portion of the Premises or New Improvements has substantially no commercial
value for the conduct of the Permitted Uses (as reasonably deten11ined by Tenant) (such instances
in subsections (a) and (b) referred to as a "Total Taking"), then Tenant's right to possession of the
Premises and Tenant's obligation for Rent shall be suspended from the date the condemning
authority obtains possession until the date a total award for such Total Taking is issued, at which
time this Lease and the Term shall cease and tenninate.

         Part,ial Condemnation. If during the Term there is a taking or condemnation of the
Premises that is not a Total Taking as set forth above, and is not a temporary taking of the kind
described Section l6.05 (a "Partial Taki.ng"), then Tenant's right to possession of the Premises so
affe.cted and Tenant's obligation for Rent as to the affected Pr,emises shall be suspended from the
date the condemning authority obtains possession until the date an award for such Partial Taking
is issued, at which time this Lease and the Tenn shall cease and tenninate as to the Premises so
taken and thereafter Rent for the remainder of the Term shaU be equitably adjusted taking into
account tbe relative values of the portion taken as compared to the portion remaining. After such
taking or condemnation, Tenant promptly shall cause the New Improvements to be restored at
Tenant's sole cost and expense to as nearly the same architectural condition and character as that
which existed prior to such taking.

        Tenant shall commence such restoration at its cost promptly following the taking and shall
thereafter diligently and continuously prosecute same to completion. Subject to the preceding
sentence, Tenant shall not be entitled to an abatement of any other payments or an1ounts due to
Landlord under this Lease during any such period of restoration. If such partial condemnation
occurs within the last five years of the Tenn Tenant may, at its election and in lieu of fulfilling its
obligations under this Section 16.02, to tenninate this Lease by providing at least 30 days ' prior
written notice of such termination to Landlord. Any such notice of tennination shall be given to
Landlord within 90 days after such partial condemnation is finalized, and such tennination shall
be conditioned on Tenant: (x) paying to Landlord on the effective date of such tennination a sum
equal to all amounts and payments due from Tenant under this Lease through such termination
date; (y) releasing to Landlord all of Tenant's right and interest in and to any condemnation award
made in collllection with such condemnation proceeding; and (z) surrendering the Premises to
Landlord as of the effective date of such te1mination.

        Awards.

               (a)     Lease Terminated. If this Lease is tenninated in its entirety pursuant to
                                                  32
Section 16.0 I or Section 16.02 on account of any condemnation: (i) the Parties jointly shall petition
the condemning authority or the court in such condemnation proceeding to make separate awards
to Landlord and Tenant (if said separate awards are not prohibited by law) in accordance with the
principles of division set forth in Section l 6.03{b) hereof; and (ii) if the condemning authority or
the court in such condemnation proceeding is prohibited by law from making separate awards to
Landlord and Tenant or declines to do so, the award shall be divided between Landlord and Tenant
in accordance with the principles of division set fo1th in Section l 6.03(b) hereof.

                 (b)    Division i(Lease is Terminated. The following principles of division are
applicable if this Lease is tenninated in its entirety pursuant to Sections 16.01 or 16.02: (i)
Landlord shall receive an amount equal to the then present value of Landlord's reversionary
interest in the Premises, which shall take into consideration the present value of the Rent payments
due hereunder for the remainder of the Tenn calculated as if the Premises had not been condemned
and this Lease had not been terminated on account of such condemnation; (ii) Tenant shall receive
an amount equal to the value of Tenant's leasehold estate hereunder, including the right to use and
occupy the Premises for the remainder of the Term (including any exercisable options or renewal
options), calculated as if the Premises had not been condemned and this Lease had not been
tem1inated on account of such condemnation, including the value of the New Improvements over
the remainder of the Term; and (iii) to the extent any portion of the award remains after the
application of(i) and (ii) above, the remainder of the award shall be divided between Landlord and
Tenant in proportion to the awards given in (i) and (ii) above.

               (c)     Lease Not Terminated. If this Lease is not tem1inated in its entirety pursuant
to Sections 16.0 l or 16.02: (i) the Parties shall jointly petition the condemning authority or the
court in such condemnation proceeding to make separate awards to Landlord and Tenant (if said
separate awards are not prohibited by law) in aooordalil.ce with the principles of division set forth
in Section 16.0J(d) hereof; and (ii) if the court in such condemnation proceeding is prohibited by
law from making separate awards to Landlord and Tenant or declines to do, the award shall be
divided between Landlord and Tenant in accordance with the principles of division set forth in
Section 16.03(d) hereof.

                (d)     Division if Lease is Nol Terminated. The following principles of division
are applicable if this Lease is not terminated in its entirety pursuant to Sections 16.01 or 16.02: (i)
Landlord shall receive an amount equal to the then present value of Landlord's reversionary
interest of the portion of the Premises condenmed, calculated as if the Premises had not been
condemned and this Lease had not been tenninated with respect to such portion of the Premises
on account of such condemnation; (ii) Tenant shall receive an amount equal to the value of
Tenant' s leasehold estate with respect to such portion of the Premises condemned, including the
right to use and occupy such p01tion of the Premises for the remainder of the Tenn, calculated as
if such portion of the Premises had not been condemned and this Lease had not been terminated
on account of such condemnation, including the then current value of the New Improvements
condemned over the remainder of the Term; and (iii) to the extent any portion of the award remains
after the application of (i) and (ii) above, the remainder of the award shall be divided between
Landlord and Tenant in proportion to the awards given in (i) and (ii) above.

        General. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Lease to the contrary, neither
Landlord nor Tenant shall be prohibited from introducing into any condemnation proceeding(s)
with respect to the Premises such appraisals or other estimates of value, loss and/or damage as
each may in its discretion detennine. Tenant shall be entitled to claim in any condemnation
                                                  33
proceedings such award as may be allowed for relocation costs or other consequential damages,
but only to the extent that the same will not reduce, but will be in addition to, the award for the
Site and the New Improvements. In the event of any dispute between Tenant and Landlord with
respect to any issue of fact arising out of a taking mentioned in this section, such dispute shall be
resolved by the same court in which the condemnation action is brought, in such proceedings as
may be appropriate for adjudicating the dispute.

         Taking for Temporary Use. In this Section 16.05, a "temporary taking" is a taking for a
period of less than six months occtming during the last two years of the Term, or a taking for a
period of over six but less than 12 months during any other portion of the Term. If there is a
temporary taking of all or any portion of the New Improvements or a material portion of the
unimproved portion of the Premises, Tenant shall give prompt notice thereof to Landlord, and the
Term shall not be reduced or affected in any way. In such case, Tenant shall (a) continue to pay
any sums and charges provided to be paid by Tenant hereunder, but (b) Tenant shall be entitled to
the entire award for such taking (whether paid by way of damages, rent or otherwise) unless the
period of occupation and use by the condemning authority shall extend beyond the date of
expiration of the Tem1, in which case the award made for such taking shall be apportioned between
Landlord and Tenant as of the date of such expiration.

In any proceeding for such temporary taking Landlord shall have the right to intervene and
participate, but no award or settlement sliall be made without Tenant's written approval; provided
that if such intervention shall not be permitted Tenant shall at Tenant's expense consult with
Landlord, its attorneys and experts, and shaU cooperate with Landlord in the prosecution or defense
of such proceeding. At the tennination of any such use or occupation of the Premises Tenant will
at its sole cost repair and restore the New Improvements then upon the Premises to the condition,
as nearly as may be reasonably possible, in whicll such New Improvements were at the time of
such taking. Tenant shall not be required to make such repairs and restoration if the Term shall
expire prior to the date of tennination of the temporary taking, and in any such event, Landlord
shall be entitled to recover all damages and awards arising out of the failure of the condemning
authority to repair and restore the New Improvements at the expiration of such temporary taking.
Any recovery or sum received by Tenant as an award or compensation for physical damage to the
Premises caused by and during the temporary taking shall be used to the extent necessary for the
purpose of repairing or restoring such damage as required hereinabove.

                                     ARTICLE XVII
                                 BROKERAGE PROVISIONS

         Each Party represents and warrants to the other that it has not engaged any broker,
commission agent, real estate agent or salesman to assist in the negotiation of this Lease, its
procurement or in the procurement of Landlord or Tenant. No person, finn, corporation or other
entity is or shall be entitled to the payment of any fee, commission, compensation or other form of
remuneration in connection herewith in any manner. Landlord shall indemnify and hold Tenant
harmless from and against any claims, demands, actions and judgments of any and all brokers,
agents and other intermediaries alleging a commission, fee or other payment to be owing by reason
of Landlord's dealings, negotiations or communications in connection with this Lease or the
demise of the Premises. Likewise, Tenant shall indemnify and hold Landlord harmless from and
against any claims, demands, actions and judgments of any and all brokers, agents and other
intermediaries alleging a commission, fee or other payment to be owing by reason of Ten ant's
dealings, negotiations or communications in connection with this Lease or the demise of the
                                                 34
Premises or the management, subleasing, or development of the Premises during the Tem1 of this
Agreement (including, without limitation, any brokers, agents, or intermediaries alleging a
commission, fee or other payment arising from representation of prospective or actual subtenants,
assignees, licensees, users, or occupants of the Premises). The tenns of this Article XVII shall
survive any termination of this Lease.

                                      ARTICLE XVIII
                                 LANDLORD'S WARRANTIES

      Landlord hereby represents and warrants (but only to the best of Landlord' s ctment actual
knowledge without inquiry) to Tenant as of the Effective Date and again on the Rent
Commencement Date, as follows:

        Mechanic's Liens. No person has the right to claim any mechanic 's or supplier's lien
arising from any labor or materials furnished to the Premises at Landlord 's request before the
Effective Date.

        Section 18.03 No Violat:ions and Act,ious. There is no legal or administrative action, suit,
proceeding or investigation pending or threatened before any agency, court or other governmental
authority which relates to the Premises or th.is Lease.

        Section 18.03 Condemnation. Exc·ept for _ _ _ __ _ _ _ , (a) there is no
condemnation proceeding pending or threatened by Landlord or the City affecting the Premises or
any portion thereof, including Wjtlmut limitation, any grade change of any street adjacent to the
Premises or any partial condemnation; and '(b) there is no legal or administrative action, suit,
proceeding or investigation pending or threatened before any agency, court or other governmental
authority which relates to the Premises or thi·s Lease being taken by Landlord or the City.

Section 18.04 Rights of Thi,r d Parties. Landlord's entering into this Lease does not violate any
rights of third parties and Landlord has received any and all necessary third-party approvals to
enter into this Lease.

Section 18.05 Additional li:ncumbrances. From and afte.r the Effective Date Landlord shall not
enter into any contracts, leases, or agreements related to the Premises nor take any action under
any existing contract, lease or agreement, which would materially and adversely affect Tenant's
right or use of the Premises pursuant to this Lease (other than as necessary to fulfill its obligations
under this Lease). Subject to Section 13.02, the foregoing shall not impair Landlord's ability to
encumber its fee interest in the Site or under this Lease from time to time as security for loans,
bonding or similar or to otherwise take any action concerning Landlord's interests in the Site so
long as such action does would not materially and adversely affect Tenant's right of quiet
enjoyment of the Premises under this Lease.

                                        ARTICLE XIX
                                       MISCELLANEOUS

       Section 19.01 Right of Tenant to Grant Easements; Joinder by Landlord. Tenant shall
not be entitled to grant easements with respect to the Premises extending longer than the Tenu
without Landlord's prior v.rritten consent, which Landlord may withhold in its sole discretion;
provided, however, that Landlord acknowledges that development of the Project may require the
grant of certain easements and Landlord agrees to cooperate in good faith with Tenant with respect
                                                35
to granting such easements which are necessary for the development of the Project in accordance
with the Design Plans. If Tenant is required by the applicable governmental authority to dedicate
any p011ion of the Premises for use as right-of-way in connection with the development of the
Project Landlord shall cooperate with Tenant with respect to such dedication; provided, however,
that Landlord shall have the right to participate in the negotiations with such govenunental
authority regarding such dedication and the timing thereof.

Section I 9.02 No Waiver. Failure of either Party to insist on the strict performance by the other
Party of any tem1, condition or covenant on such other Party's part to be performed pursuant to
the tenns of this Lease or to exercise any option, right, power, or remedy contained in this Lease
shall not be or be deemed to be a waiver of such performance or relinquishment of such right now
or at any time subsequent hereto. The receipt by Landlord of any smns required to be paid by
Tenant hereunder with knowledge of any Event of Default by Tenant shall not be or be deemed to
be a waiver of such Event of Default. No waiver by Landlord or Tenant of any provision of this
Lease shall be or be deemed to have been made unless expressed in writing and signed by Landlord
or Tenant, as the case may be.

Section 19.03 Each Party to Bear Own Costs. Each of the parties shaU bear its own legal,
accounting and other fees and costs incurred in connection with the negotiation and documentation
of this Lease.

         Section l 9.04 Estoppel Certificates. Within 15 days after recetpt of Landlord's written
request from time to time, Tenant shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to Landlord and to any
mortgagee of or prospective purchaser from Landlord, a written certificate certifying (a) that this
Lease is unmodified and in full force and effect (or if there have been modifications, that this Lease
is in full force and effect as modified, and stating the modifications); (b) that no notice has been
received by Tenant of and Tenant has no knowledge of any default or Event of Default by Tenant
hereunder or any default by Landlord hereunder which has not been cured, except as to any default
or Event of Default specified in said certificate (or stating any defaults or Events of Default); and
(c) any other matters or state of facts regarding the Lease which are reasonably requested by
Landlord.

Similarly, within 15 days after receipt of Tenant's written request from time to time, Landlord
shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to Tenant and any party designated by Tenant a written
certificate certifying (x) that this Lease is unmodified and in full force and effect (or if there have
been modifications, that this Lease is in full force and effect as modified, and stating the
modifications); (y) whether or not, to the knowledge of Landlord, a default or Event of Default by
Tenant has occuITed under this Lease which has not been cured (and if so, specifying the same);
and (i) any other matters or state of facts regarding the Lease which are reasonably requested by
Tenant.

         Section 19.05 No Merger of Title. No merger of the leasehold estate created by this Lease
with the fee estate of Landlord shall occur notwithstanding the fact that the same person may own
or hold both the leasehold estate created by this Lease or any interest therein and the fee estate in
the Premises or any interest therein. No such merger shall occur unless and until all persons or
entities (including any mortgagee with respect to the fee estate of Landlord) having any interest in
the leasehold estate created by this Lease or the fee estate in the Premises shall join in a written
instrument effecting such merger and shall duly record the same or the same person or entity owns
and holds all interests in the fee estate of the Premises and the leasehold estates created by this
                                                  36
Lease.

        Section 19.06 Quiet Enjoyment. If and so long as Tenant shall pay when due all sums
reserved or payable under this Lease and shall comply with all terms, conditions and covenants
and other obligations required to be observed by Tenant under this Lease, Landlord covenants that
Tenant will have peaceful and quiet occupation and enjoyment of the Premises;provided, however,
that this Section 19. 06 shall not abrogate or diminish, in any way, the approval and inspection
rights or other rights or benefits granted to Landlord under this Lease.

        Section 19.07 Transfer by Tenant. If Tenant transfers, assigns or otherwise disposes of
all or any portion of its interest in the Premises or in this Lease, other than pursuant to a
Foreclosure, Tenant shaU not be released and discharged from any liabilities and obligations under
this Lease but instead shall remain responsible to assure foll and tim.ely compliance by its
transferee or assignee of all Tenant's duties under this Lease, unless Tenant is able to show that
the transferee or assignee has a net worth of at least $50,000,000, and a tangible net worth of at
least $15,000,000.                                                                        •

        Section 19 .08 Transfer by Landlord. If Landlord transfers, assigns or otherwise disposes
of all or any portion of its interest in the Premises or in this Lease, then Landlord promptly shall
notify Telil.ant in writing of (a) such transfer, assignment or disposition, aRd (b) the identity and
contact infonnation for such transferee, assignee, etc.

         Section 19.09 Landlord's Liabilitv. Landlord shall have no personal liability with respect
 to any of th.e provisions of tl1is Lease. If Landlord is in default with r;espect to its obligations under
 this Lease, T·enant shall look solely to the equity of Landlord in and to tl1e Premises for satisfaction
,o f Tenant's remedies, if any. Landlord's liability under the terms of th,is Lease shall in no
 event exceed the amount of its interest in and to the Premises.

        Section 19. l 0 Fee Mortgages. This Lease and Tenant's leasehold estate shall be prior and
superior to aH Fee Mortgages and the rights of all Fee Mortgagees. Any inconsistency between
any Fee Mortgage and this Lease shall be resolved in favor of this Lease. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, Tenant sbaH attorn to any party succeeding Landlord's interest in the Premises, whether
by purchase, foreclosure, deed in lieu of foreclosure, power ,o f sale, or otherwise and, upon such
party's request, and shall execute such agreements recognizing such Fee Mortgage and confinning
such attomment as such party may reasonably request. Such attomment agi,eement shall include,
but not be limited to, the following tenns and conditions: (a) provided that Landlord delivers notice
of Fee Mortgagee's address, Tenant shall provide Fee Mortgagee with a copy of any notice of any
alleged default under this Lease by Landlord and Fee Mo1tgagee shall be given the opportunity,
without undertaking Landlord' s obligations, to cure such default ·o r cause it to be cured for a period
of 30 days after receipt of such notice; (b) if the Fee Mortgagee succeeds Landlord due to a
foreclosure sale or deed in lieu of foreclosure, Tenant will attorn to the foreclosure successor so
that this Lease and the relationship of Landlord and Tenant shall exist between such foreclosure
successor and Tenant (provided that the party succeeding Landlord' s interest agrees not to disturb
Tenant's occupancy of the Premises so long as there is no uncured event of default by Tenant);
and (c) such foreclosure successor shall be bound to the tem1s of this Lease and perfonn the
obligations of Landlord hereunder; provided, however, that such foreclosure successor or its
successors or assigns shall not be: (I) liable for any act or omission of any prior landlord (unless
such act or omission is continuing after the successor landlord succeeds Landlord's interest); or
(m) subject to any offsets or defenses Tenant might have against any prior landlord unless Landlord
                                                    37
has delivered to Tenant Fee Mortgagee's address as provided above and Fee Mortgagee was given
notice of and an opportunity to cure any such acts or omissions of the prior landlord prior to the
transfer of title.

As used herein, the term "Fee Mortgage" means any deed of trust or mortgage created by Landlord
or any successor owner of fee title to the Site: (x) that encumbers all or part of the Site; (y) a copy
of which (recorded or unrecorded) is promptly after execution delivered to Tenant and all
Lease.hold Mortgagee(s) with a certification by Fee Mortgagee that the copy is accurate and stating
Fee Mortgagee's name and Notice address; and (z) that is held by a Fee Mortgagee that is an
Institutional Lender. As used herein, the term "Fee Mortgagee" means any mortgagee holding a
Fee Mortgage; provided, however, that any participant or partial assignee holding any direct or
indirect interest in a Fee Mortgage shall not be deemed a Fee Mortgagee or affect Tenant in any
way. For the avoidance of doubt, nothing herein shall be construed in any way to adversely affect
Landlord's, and any successor landlord's (whether by purchase, foreclosure, deed in lieu of
foreclosure, power of sale, or otherwise), fee simple interest in Premises, subject to the terms and
conditions of this Lease.

         Section 19.l l Severability. Each and every covenant and agreement contained in this
Lease shall be for any and all purposes hereof construed as separate and independent, and the
breach of any covenant by Landlord shall not discharge or relieve Tenant from its obligation to
perfonn each and every covenant and agreement to be perfonned by Tenant under this Lease. All
rights, powers and remedies provided herein may be exercise4 only to the extent that the exercise
tb,e reof does not violate applicable law and shall be limited to the extent necessary to render this
Lease valid and enforceable. If any term, provision or covenant of this Lease or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, by a
court oflast reso1t having jurisdiction in the Premises, the validity of the remainder of this Lease
shall not be affected, this Lease shall not terminate, and there shan be substituted for such illegal,
invalid or tmenforceable provision a like provision which is legal, valid and enforceable within the
limits established by such court's final opinion and which most nearly accomplishes and reflects
the original intention of the Parties.

        Section 19.12 Notices, Demands and Otlter Instruments. All notices, demands, requests,
consents, and approvals desired, necessary, required or pennitted to be given pursuant to the terms
of this Lease shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been properly given if personally
delivered (including delivery by courier or by Federal Express or similar overnight delivery
service) or sent, postage prepaid, by first class registered or certified United States mail, return
receipt requested, addressed to each Party hereto at the following address (or as to Guarantor, to
its address specified above):

       Landlord:               COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CORA
                               2277 East Bengal Blvd.
                               Cottonwood Heights, UT 8412 l




                                                  38
        with a copy to:         Wm. Shane Topham
                                TOPHAM LEGAL
                                4930 Fairview Drive
                                Holladay, UT 84 l l 7

        Tenant:                1'DD,LLO,
                               7585 Union Park Avenue, Ste. 200
                               Cottonwood Heights, UT 84047

        with a copy to:         A. Chase Nielsen
                                KIRTON MCCONKIE
                                50 East South Temple, Suite 400
                                Salt Lake City, UT 841 l l

or at such other address in the United States as Landlord or Tenant may from time to time designate
by like notice. Any such notice, demand. request or other communication shall be considered given
upon personal delivery; the next business day after it is deposited in with an overnight courier
service for next business day delivery; or three days after it is deposited in the U.S. Mail with first-
class postage prepaid. Rejection or other refusal to accept or inability to deliver because of changed
address of which no notice was given will not affect the date upon which a notice, demand, request
or other communication is deemed given, delivered and received. Either Party may change its
notice address herein provided by deliverin,g to the other Party written notice of such changed
address.

        Section 19. l 3 Successors and Assigns. Each and every covenant, tenn, condition and
obligation contained in this Lease shall apply to and be binding upon and inure to the benefit or
detriment of the respective legal representatives, heirs, successors and permitted assigns of the
Parties. Whenever refer•ence to a Party is made in this Lease, such r•eference shall be deemed to
include the legal representatives, successors, heirs and permitted assigns of said Party the same as
if in each case expressed. The term ''person" wlien used in this Lease shall mean any individual,
corporation, partnership, firm, trust, joint venture, business association, syndicate, government or
governmental organization or any other entity.

       Section 19.14 Headings. The heading to the various Articles and Sections of this Lease
have been inserted for purposes of reference only and shall not limit or define or otherwise affect
the express terms and provisions of this Lease.

       Section 19.15 Counte1·parts. This Lease may be executed in any number of counterparts,
each of which shall be an original, but all of which shall constitute one instrument.

       Section 19.16 Applicable Law. This Lease shall be construed under and enforced in
accordance with the laws of the State of Utah. Venue of any judicial proceeding concerning this
Lease shall be in the Third District Court of Salt Lake County, Utah.

        Section l 9. l 7 Entire Agreement; Amendments. This Lease sets forth the Parties' entire
understanding and agreement concerning the subject matter of this Lease, and all courses of
dealing, usage of trade and all prior representations, promises, understandings and agreements,
whether oral or written, are superseded by and merged into this Lease. No modification or
amendment of this Lease shall be binding upon either Party unless in writing and fully executed
                                                  39
by both Parties. Any such amendment shall be effective upon recording a memorandum of such
amendment in the real property records of the Salt Lake County Recorder. Landlord shall
reasonably cooperate with Tenant in good faith to make any amendments to this Lease that are
required by Tenant's lender(s); provided, however, that Landlord shall not be required to assume
any liability or incur any expense with regard to the same.

       Section 19.18 All Genders and Numbers Included. Whenever the singular or plural
number, or masculine, feminine, or neuter gender, is used in this Lease, it shall equally apply to,
extend to, and include the other.

        Section 19.19 Relationship of ,the Parties. Nothing contained herein shall be deemed or
construed by the Parties hereto, or any third party, as creating the relationship of principal and
agent or a partnership or joint venture between the Parties, it being understood and agreed that
neither the method of computation of rent nor any other provision contained herein, nor any acts
of the Parties hereto, shall be deemed to create any relationship between the Parties hereto other
than the relationship of landlord and tenant.

        Section 19.20 Force Majeure; Time is of Essence. Whenever a period of time is
prescribed in this Lease for action (other than the payment of money) to be taken by a Party, then
that Party shall not be liable or responsible for, and there shall be excluded from the computation
of any such period of time, any delays which, despite the use of good faith and diligent efforts,
such Party is unable to overcome, consisting solely of strikes, riots, sabotage, blockage, embargo,
earthquake, or other natural disaster or adverse weather conditions which the Party can
demonstrate to the other Party's reasonable satisfaction exceed climatic nom1s using 100-year
return intervals. Rain, snow or other adverse weather condition of typical duration, frequency and
amount shall not constitute Force Majeure. Except as provided in this Section 19.20, time is
declared to be the essence of this Lease.

       Section 19.21 Recording. Upon mutual execution of this Lease, Landlord shall record this
Lease or a memorandum of this Lease in the public records of the Salt Lake County Recorder. The
effect of such recording may be extinguished by a subsequent recording by Landlord or its
successor to fee title to the Site at any time after the end of the Tenn. The recording will be a
second-priority encumbrance iimnediately after the recording of the Development Agreement.

        Section 19.22 Inspection Rigltts. Landlord has the right, but not the duty, at all times and
from time to time (with at least 24 hours' prior notice except in case of bona fide emergency), to
enter upon the Premises and any portion thereof to determine to Landlord's satisfaction whether
the terms, covenants and conditions of this Lease, including Tenant's performance obligations, are
being kept and observed; provided, however, that Landlord agrees (a) to give reasonable prior
written notice to Tenant specifying the portions of the Premises Landlord desires to enter and the
reasons for such entry, except in the event of an emergency, (b) to conduct such visits in a manner
which does not unreasonably interfere with the occupants of the Premises or violate any subleases
in effect with respect to any such occupants, (c) to conduct such visits in a manner which does not
unreasonably interfere with any ongoing construction activity that is then being conducted on the
Premises or violate any construction contracts in effect with respect to any such ongoing
construction activity, and (d) to permit a representative of Tenant to accompany Landlord on such
visits.

       Section 19.23 Holding Over; No Extension; Tenancy at Sufferance. If Tenant shall hold
                                                40
the Premises after the expiration of the Tenn without Landlord's express written consent, such
holding over shall be deemed to have created a tenancy at sufferance with respect to the portion of
the Premises affected, which shall be immediately terminable by Landlord. If Landlord elects to
accept any rental or other payment from Tenant during such holdover, Tenant shall pay to Landlord
as Rent, in addition to any amounts otherwise due and owing from Tenant under this Lease and
without waiving any of Landlord' s other available rights or remedies, monthly Rent equal to 150%
of the Rent payable under this Lease for the affected portion of the Premises for the last year of
the Term, divided by 12. Any such holdover otherwise shall be subject to all terms and provisions
of this Lease, except as contemplated to the contrary in this Section 19 .23.

      Section 19 .24 Exhibits. The exhibits attached hereto are hereby incorporated by reference
and made a part of this Lease.

       Section l 9.25 Certain D.efinitive Documents. This Lease is to be entered into
simultaneously with the Development Agreement and the Easement. The binding effect of this
Lease is conditioned on the Parties ' entry into such Definitive Documents, and vice versa.

         Section l 9.26 Attornevs' Fees. If there is any litigation between Landlord and Tenant to
enforce or interpret any provisions or rights under this Agreement, the unsuccessful party in such
litigation, as determined by die court, shall pay to the successful party, as detem1ined by the court,
reasonable costs and expenses, including but not limited to reasonable attorneys' fees, incurred by
the successful party, such costs, expenses and attorneys' fees to be determined by the court sitting
without a jury.

       Section l 9.27 Auth@rization. Each individual executing this Agreement does thereby
represent and warran,t to any other individual so signing (and to each other entity for which anotber
individual is signing) th.at the individual has been duly authorized to deliver this Agreement in the
capacity and for the entity that is set forth where he signs.

                                       (signatures to follow)




                                                 41
       DATED as of the Effective Date specified above.

                                          LANDLORD:

                                          COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS COMMUNITY
ATTEST:                                   DEVELOPMENT AND RENEWAL AGENCY


By: - -- - - - - - - -                    By: - - - - - - - - -- - -- - - -
    Tiffany Janzen, Secretary                 Jared Gerber, Chief Executive Officer


                                          B y : - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- -
                                           Gay Lynn Bennion, Board Chair

STATE OF UTAH               )
                           : ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE)

      On     _ _ _ _ 202_ personally appeared before me Jared Gerber, Gay Lynn
Bennion, and Tiffany Janzen, who duly acknowledged to me that they executed the foregoing
instrument as tbe Chief Executive Officer, Board Chair and Secretary, respectively, of the
C0TTONWOD HEIGHTS COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND UNEWAL AGENCY,
an agency of tile city of COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, a municipality and political subdivision
of the state ofUtalL



                                          Notary Public




                                             42
                                         TENANT:


                                         a Utah limited liability company


                                         By:
                                               - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -
                                               - - - - - - -, its Manager

STATE OF UTAH        )
                   : ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE)

        On       _____ 202_ personally appeared before me _ _ __ __ and
_ __ _ _ _ _, who duly acknowledged to me that they executed th:e foregoing instrnment
as the Manag,ers of _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _, a Utah limited liability company.



                                         Notary Public




Documents\4896-9348-7205.vl0-l l/26/25


                                           43
                     Exhibit "A" to Master Ground Lease
"HILLSIDE PLAZA" PROJECT:

Lot 1, HILLSIDE PLAZA SUBDIVISION, according to the Official Plat thereof on file and
recorded January 18, 2006 as Entry No. 9613232 in Book 2006P at Page 15 in the Office of the
Recorder of Salt Lake County, State of Utah.

(For infomiation purposes, known as Tax ID Nos. 22-27-201-029, 22-27-201-030, 22-27-201-031,
22-27-201-032, 22-27-201-033 and 22-27-201-034)

PARCEL IA:
Non-exclusive easements for ingress, egress and vehicular parking as more specifically defined
and set forth in that certain Declaration of Restrictions and Reciprocal Easements, recorded August
26, 1976 as Entry No. 2849657 in Book 4315 at Page 174, and in all prior recorded amendments
and modifications thereto, including that certain First Modification of Declarations and Reciprocal
Easements, recorded August 29, 2014 as Entry No. H905687 in Book 10256 at Page 7653 of
Official Records.

PARCEL lB:
Non-exclusive easements for vehicular and pedestrian ingress and egress, vehicular parking and
ooderground utilities as more specifically defined and set forth in that certain Declaration of
Covenants, Easements and Restrictions, recorded August 1, 2006 as Entry No. 9798315 in Book
9329 at Page 7274 of Official Records, and in all prior recorded amendments and modifications
thereto, induding the Amendment to Declaration of Covenants, Easements and Restrictions
recorded March 30, 2023 as Entry No. 14088008 in Book 11409 at Page 6014 of Official Records.

And:

''WALGREENS PARCEL"

Lot 2, HILLSIDE PLAZA SUBDIVISION, according to the Official Plat thereof on file and
recorded January 18, 2006 as Entry No. 9613232 in Book 2006P at Page 15 in the Office of the
Recorder of Salt Lake County, State of Utah.

(For infonnation purposes, known as Tax ID No. 22-27-201-035)




                                                44
                      Exhibit "B" to Master Ground Lease

Appended to this Exhibit "B" is commitment for title insurance no. 2596085KB by Title Company
dated 13 August 2025, as amended (the "Commitment").

Permitted Title Exceptions:

The following exceptions described in Schedule B-II of the Commitment are the Pennitted Title
Exceptions under this Lease:

Exception nos. 1-7, 8 (as to current year property taxes), 9-23, 24 (as to current year property
taxes), 25-36, 37-38 (unless a reasonable time has passed after Landlord acquired fee simple title
to the Walgreens Parcel described on Exhibit "A"), 39 (unless a reasonable time has passed after
termination of the leases to Hillside-West, LLC and Walgreens Co. encumbering the Walgreens
Parceij, and 40.

Any exception to title in the Commitment to the extent that it does not relate to the Site.

UHpermitted Title Exceptions:

Th.e following exceptions described in Schedule B-II of the Commitment are not Permitted Tid e
Exceptions (i.e., and therefore are the Unperrnitted Title Exceptions under the Lease) and shall be
remedied, resolved and removed as encumbrances on tid e to the Site at Landlord' s cost (but with
Tenant's cooperation) as provided in Section 1.05 of the Lease:

Exceptions _ _ _ __ _ _

Any other exceptions described in Schedule B-II of the Commitment which are not specified above
as Permitted Title Exceptions.




                                                 45
Exhibit "C" to Master Ground Lease

           (Attach Site Plan)




                  46
                          Cottonwood Heights
                          C11y bttuYtll tht r ,111,0111




         CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING

                        Attachment 1
                       Ordinance 455
This ordinance will adopt the supplemental name of "Incheon
 Y eonsu Road" for 2300 East Street from Ft. Union Blvd. to
Bengal Blvd. to honor the city's "sister city" relationship with
      the Yeonsu-go District in Incheon, South Korea.
                                COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                     ORDINANCE NO. 455

           AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENTAL, HONORARY NAME
          FOR 2300 EAST STREET FROM FT. UNION BLVD. TO BENGAL BLVD.

        WHEREAS, UTAH CODE ANN. §10-8-32 authorizes Utah municipalities to "name streets,
courts, parks, thoroughfares and other public places and change the names thereof;" and

         WHEREAS, § 12.28.030 of the Code of Ordinances (the "Code") of the city of
Cottonwood Heights (the "City") authorizes the City to add to, change or correct the names of
streets in the City by ordinance; and

       WHEREAS, in July 2025 the City formalized a "sister city" relationship with the Yeonsu-
go District in Incheon, South Korea ("Yeonsu-go") to, among other things, honor the historical ties
between Utah and Korea and foster educational and cultural collaborations; and

        WHEREAS, Y,eonsu-go lias recognized that sister city relationship by naming one of its
streets "Cottonwood Heights-ro"; and

       WHEREAS, the City's city council (the "Council" ) met in regular session on l6 December
2025 to consider, among other things, adopting the honorary, supplemental name of "Incheon
Yeonsu Road" for the portion of2300 East Street between Ft. Union Blvd. and Bengal Blvd.; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration the Council believes that it will be in the best
interests of the public health, safety and welfare to so act;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

        Section 1.    Nami11g ofStreet Segment. The Council hereby adopts the honora1y name
of "Incheon Yeonsu Road" for the portion of 2300 East Street between Ft. Union Blvd. and
Bengal Blvd. in the City. To avoid confusion and to foster uniformity and order among the City's
street names, such name shall be clearly subordinate to the prima1y name "2300 East," with use of
such honorary name on street signs either appearing in smaller, clearly subordinate lettering below
the name "2300 East" or appearing on a clearly subordinate, separate street sign mounted below a
sign showing " 2300 East," as determined by the community development director in consultation
with the City's mayor and manager.

       Section 2.     Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in confonnity with the purpose and intent of this ordinance (this "Ordinance") ,
whether taken before or after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

       Section 3.     Severabilitv. All parts of this Ordinance are severable, and if any section,
paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason, be held to be invalid or
unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section, paragraph, clause or
provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or provisions of this
Ordinance.

         Section 4.     Repealer. All ordinances or pa11s thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

        Section 5.      Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 455, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City's recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 16th day of December 2025.

ATTEST:                                      COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By:-- - - - -- -- - - -                      By: - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - -
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                        Michael T. Weichers, Mayor


                                     VOTING:

                                     Michael T. Weichers           Yea_Nay_
                                     Matt Holton                   Yea _ Nay_
                                     Suzanne Hyland                Yea_Nay_
                                     Shawn E. Newell               Yea_Nay_
                                     Ellen Birrell                 Yea_Nay_

       DEPOSITED in the Recorder's office this 16th day of December 2025.

       POSTED this_ day of December 2025.




                                                2
                         Cottonwood Heights
                         C11y b,-1t1't'm ,1,,. r,IIIJYJ/IJ




                       Attachment 2
                       Ordinance 456
This ordinance will amend the city's general plan to include a
water use and preservation element that complies with UTAH
CODE ANN. 10-20-404, as required by UTAH CODE ANN.
                        10-20-401 [4].
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                     ORDINANCE NO. 456

               AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE CITY'S GENERAL PLAN TO
                INCLUDE AWATER USE AND PRESERVATION ELEMENT

       WHEREAS, the "Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act," UTAH CODE
ANN. § I 0-9a- l OI et seq., as amended (the "Act"), provides that each municipality shall prepare
and adopt a comprehensive, long-range general plan; and

       WHEREAS, the Act requires the municipality's planning commission to prepare the
general plan and submit it to the municipality's legislative body; and

       WHEREAS, the Act also provides certain procedures for the municipality's legislative
body to adopt and amend the general plan; and

       WHEREAS, on 26 July 2005, following full compliance with the procedures for
fommlation, public hearing and recommendation specified in UTAH CODE ANN. §§10-9a-40l
tluough -404, the city council (the "Councif') of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City")
enacted its Ordinance No. 24 adopting a general plan (with aU previous amendments, the "General
Plan"} for the City; and

        WHEREAS, as authorized by statute, the General Plan includes various topical "elements"
or divisions, including a transportation element and an urban trails element which address, among
other things, transportation choices and alternate modes of travet and

        WHEREAS, UTAH CODE ANN. l 0-20-40 l (4) enacted by the Utah Legislature in its 2025
general session requires each Utah municipality by 31 December 2025 to include in its general
plan a water use and preservation element that complies with UTAH CODE ANN. 10-20-404 and
any otl1er applicable requirements; and

        WHEREAS, consequently the City's planning staff and its planning commission (the
"Planning Commission") formulated a water use and preservation element (the " Water Element")
intended to comply with all applicable statutory requirements to incorporate into the City's General
Plan; and

        WHEREAS, following all required notices, a public hearing was held before the Planning
Commission concerning the proposed Water Element, where citizens were given the opportunity
to provide written or oral comment concerning the proposed Water Element addition to the General
Plan; and

       WHEREAS, following the public hearing on 15 December 2025 the Planning Commission
voted to recommend that the Council approve amending the General Plan to include the Water
Element; and

       WHEREAS, on 16 December 2025, the Council met in regular meeting to consider,
among other things, amending the General Plan to include the Water Element in the fonn that is
attached as an exhibit to this ordinance (this "Ordinance"); and
        WHEREAS, after careful consideration of the recommendations of the Planning
Commission, the comments at the public hearing and public meetings, and other pertinent
infonnation, and otherwise being fully advised, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interest of the health, safety and welfare of the City's residents to so amend the City's General
Plan to include the Water Element as proposed;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

        Section 1.      Ame11dme11t of General Pla11 . The Council hereby approves and adopts the
Water Element and amends the General Plan to include the Water Element. From and after the
effective date of this Ordinance, the General Plan shall be deemed to incorporate and include the
Water Element.

        Section 2.     Future Ame11d111e11t of Ge11erc1f Plan. Pursuant to the authority granted in
the Act, the Council shall have, and hereby expressly reserves, the right to hereafter further amend
the General Plan at any time or from time-to-time hereafter for any purpose upon recommendation
by the Planning Commission following all appropriate public notices and hearings required by the
Act.

        Section 3.     Actio11 of Officers. AH actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance, whether taken before or
after adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

       Section 4.     Severability. All parts of this Ordinance are severable, and if any section,
paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shaH, for any reason, be held to be invalid or
unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section, paragraph, clause or
provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or provisions of this
Ordinance.

         Section 5.      Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

        Section 6.      Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 456, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City's Recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 16th day of December 2025.


ATTEST:                                       COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By:------------                               By:
                                                    - - - - - - - - - -- - -- - - --
     Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                       Mich aeIT. Weichers, Mayor




                                                 2
                                  VOTING:

                                  Michael T. Weichers         Yea_Nay_
                                  Matt Holton                 Yea_Nay_
                                  Suzanne Hyland              Yea_Nay_
                                  Shawn E. Newell             Yea_Nay_
                                  Ellen Birrell               Yea_Nay_

DEPOSITED in the Recorder's office this 16th day of December 2025.

POSTED this_ day of December 2025.




                                     3
EXHIBIT TO ORDINANCE 456

  (Attach copy of Water Element)




                4
                              rl' \ ,
                        Cottonwood Heights
                         Cuy bm,Ym tlN' r,m)OIII




                       Attachment 3
                      Ordinance 457
 This ordinance will adopt an exception under UTAH CODE
ANN. 41-6a-715(5) to the controlled access to Big Cottonwood
Canyon Road at Mine Shaft Road on "traction control" [snow]
                            days.
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                      ORDINANCE NO. 457

                      AN ORDINANCE APPROVING AN EXCEPTION TO
                      CONTROLLED ACCESS FOR MINE SHAFT ROAD

       WHEREAS, UTAH CODE ANN. 41-6a-715 (a portion of Utah's Traffic Code codified as
Chapter 6a of Title 41, UTAH CODE ANN. [the "Traffic Code"]), provides that a highway authority
may by ordinance regulate or prohibit the use of a controlled-access highway within the highway
authority's jurisdiction; and

        WHEREAS, the portion of Big Cottonwood Canyon Road surrounding its intersection
with Mine Shaft Road (located at about 3950 East) is a controlled-access highway under
jurisdiction of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City") as the pe1tinent highway authority for
purposes of the Traffic Code; and

        WHERiEAS, when snow conditions warrant, certain winter days are designated by the City
as "traction control days" ("Control Days") when entry of vehicles onto Big Cottonwood Canyon
Road is restricted to better assure safe and efficient management of traffic seeking to enter Big
Cottonwood Canyon; and

        WHEREAS, on l6 December 2025 the City's city council (the "Councif') met in regular
session to consider, .among other things, approving an exception (the "Exception") to controlled
access onto Big Cottonwood Canyon Road from Mine Shaft Road on Control Days as provided in
the policy (the "Policy") that is attached as an exhibit to this ordinance (this "Ordinance"); and

        WHEREAS, after carefol consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interest of the bealth, safety and welfare of the City's residents to so act:

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

        Section 1.    Approval of Exception. The Council hereby approves the Exception as
detailed in the attached Policy, provided, however, that the Policy is hereafter subject to
amendment, and the Exception is hereafter subject to amendment or repeal, by ordinance duly
enacted by the Council.

        Section 2.     Actio11 of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in confonnity with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance, whether taken before or
after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confinned and approved.

       Section 3.       Severability. It is hereby declared that all parts of this Ordinance are
severable, and if any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason,
be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section,
paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or
provisions of this Ordinance.

         Section 4.     Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
        Section 5.       Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 457, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City' s Recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 16th day of December 2025.

ATTEST:                                      COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By: _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _                         By _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                    Michael T. Weichers, Mayor


                                             VOTING:

                                             Michael T. Weichers           Yea_Nay_
                                             Matt Holton                   Yea_Nay_
                                             Suzanne Hyland                Yea_Nay_
                                             Shawn E. NeweU                Yea_Nay_
                                             Ellen Birrell                 Yea_Nay _

       DEPOSITED in the Recorder's office this 16th day of December 2025.

       POSTED this_ day of December 2025.




                                                2
                              EXHIBIT TO ORDINANCE 457

     EXCEPTION TO CONTROLLED ACCESS TO BIG COTTONWOOD CANYON ROAD
              VIA MINE SHAFT ROAD ON TRACTION CONTROL DAYS

Purpose:

This policy establishes the conditions under which vehicles may access Big Cottonwood Canyon
via Mine Shaft Road during snow-affected "traction control" days to better ensure safe and
efficient traffic management. In this policy, "Control Days" means periods when the city of
Cottonwood Heights (the "City"), Utah Department of Transportation ("UDOT'), or other
authorized agencies, requires vehicles to have four-wheel drive, all-wheel drive, or tire chains to
proceed up Big Cottonwood Canyon via Big Cottonwood Canyon Road due to weather or road
conditions.

Scope:

This policy applies to all vehicular traffic attempting to enter Big Cottonwood Canyon via Mine
Shaft Road on Control Days.

Policy:

    l. Restricted Access
          o During Control Days entry into Big Cottonwood Canyon from Mineshaft Road via
              Big Cottonwood Canyon Road is restricted to authorized vehicles only.

   2. Resident Exception
           o   A vehicle may turn East onto Big Cottonwood Canyon Road from Mineshaft Road
               only if the driver presents a valid Utah Driver License or State ID confirming
               residency Northeast of the intersection of Prospector Drive and Wasatch
               Boulevard.
           o   The vehicle must be equipped with a UDOT Cottonwood Canyons sticker valid for
               the cun-ent year. Without a sticker, the vehicle must tum around and access the
               canyon through the approved inspection checkpoint at the primary canyon entrance
               on Wasatch Boulevard (SR 2 lO) and Big Cottonwood Canyon Road (SR 190).
               Please v1s1t https://cottonwoodcanyons.udot.utah.gov/sticker-program/ for
               program infonnation.

   3. Verification Procedure
           o   Law enforcement or designated traffic control personnel shall verify the resident's
               address at the checkpoint before pennitting access.
           o   Once verified, the resident may proceed up Mineshaft Road into Big Cottonwood
               Canyon.

   4. Enforcement
         o Any person attempting to bypass the checkpoint or provide false identification may
            be subject to citation under applicable municipal and state laws.
         o Nonresidents, and vehicles without a valid UDOT Cottonwood Canyons sticker,

                                                 3
          will be directed to use the primary canyon access point on Wasatch Boulevard (SR
          210) and Big Cottonwood Canyon Road (SR 190).

5. Duration
      o This restriction shall apply only during traction control enforcement periods on
         Control Days and may be lifted once UDOT or local authorities detennine normal
         access conditions have resumed.




                                          4
                         Cottonwood Heights
                         C,ry bau'fm tit< r,mJOill




                       Attachment 4
                     Resolution 2025-75
By this resolution the council will approve an amendment to an
existing development agreement with Land Development LLC
concerning real property located at 3526 East Fort Union Blvd.
   The purpose of the amendment is to revise the approved
  conceptual site plan to re-configure the access driveway to
     provide direct access to Ft. Union Blvd. and to make
    corresponding changes to the verbiage in the approved
                    development agreement.
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                  RESOLUTION No. 2025-75

                 A RESOLUTION APPROVING AN AMENDMENT TO A
             DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT WITH LAND DEVELOPMENT LLC
                        (3526 EAST FORT UNION BLVD.)

        WHEREAS, effective 19 August 2025 the city council (the "Council") of the city of
Cottonwood Heights (the "City") enacted its Resolution 2025-54 approving a development
agreement (the "Agreement") with Land Development LLC ("Developer") concerning
Developer's proposed residential development located at or near 3526 East Fort Union Blvd. in
the City; and

       WHEREAS, after D.eveloper subsequently requested the City to agree to certain changes
to the Agreement to resolve certain development issues, the parties prepar,ed a proposed
amendment (the "Amendment") to the Agreement to resolve the issues raised by Developer; and

        WHEREAS, the Council met in regular session on 16 December 2025 to consider, among
other things, approving the City's entry into the Amendment; and

       \VHEREAS, the Comi.cil has reviewed the fonn of the Amendment, a photocopy of which
is annexed hereto; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has detennined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the City's residents to approve the City' s entry into
the Amendment as proposed;

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Cottonwood Heights city council that
the attached Amendment is hereby approved, and that the City's mayor and recorder are authorized
and directed to execute and deliver the Amendment on behalf of the City.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2025-75, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

       PASSED AND APPROVED .effective 16 December 2025.

ATTEST:                                       COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By: _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __                       By _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ _ __
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                     Michael T. Weichers, Mayor

                                              VOTING:

                                              Michael T. Weichers            Yea_Nay _
                                              Matt Holton                    Yea_Nay_
                                              Suzanne Hyland                 Yea_Nay_
                                              Shawn E. Newell                Yea_Nay_
                                              Ellen Birrell                  Yea_Nay_
DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this l61h day of December 2025.

RECORDED this_ day of December 2025.




                                      2
WHEN RECORDED RETURN TO:

COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
Attn: Tiffany Janzen, City Recorder
2277 East Bengal Blvd.
Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121

              First A1nend1nent to Development Agreement
                               (3526 East Fort Union Blvd.)

       THIS FIRST AMENDMENT TO DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT (this
"Amendment") is entered into effective l 6 December 2025 by and between LAND
DEVELOPMENT LLC, a Utah limited liability company whose address is 3267 East 3300
South, #304, Salt Lake City, UT 84109 ("Developer"), and the city of COTTONWOOD
HEIGHTS, a Utah municipality wlmse address is 2277 East Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights,
UT 84121 ("City"). Developer and City are hereinaft.er sometimes referred to individually as a
"Party" or collectively as the "Parti<es."



       A.       Developer O\VIlS approximately .95 acre of real property located at or near 3526
East Fort Union Blvd. within City' s boundaries (the "Property"). The legal description of the
Property is set forth on Exhibit "A" annexed heret,o.

       B.     Effective on or about 19 August 2025 the Parties entered into a "Development
Agreement" (the "Agreement") conceming Developer's proposed development of the Property,
which was recorded in the official records of the Recorder of Salt Lake County, Utah on 27 August
2025 as Entry No. 14428244 in Book l 1596 beginning at Page 3599.

       C.   The Parties now desire to amend certain provisions of the Agreement as detailed in
this Amendment.

                                      AGREEMENT:

       NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein and for
other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby
acknowledged, the Parties hereby agree as follows:

                                      AGREEMENT:

        NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of their mutual promises and for other
good and valuable consideration, the receipt and legal adequacy of which is hereby acknowledged,
the Parties covenant and agree as set forth herein.

        Section l.    Defined Terms. Unless otherwise defined in this Amendment, all
capitalized tem1s in this Amendment shall have the same meanings and definitions as in the
Agreement.

       Section 2.     Amendment of Recital D. The Parties hereby amend Recital D of the
Agreement to omit the following phrase in lines 5-6: ", with no driveway or vehicular access.from
the Project directly to Fort Union Blvd.".

       Section 3.       Amendment of Section 3(a). The Parties hereby amend Section 3(a) of the
Agreement to omit the following phrase in lines 6-7: ", with no driveway or vehicular access from
the Project directZv to Fort Union Blvd.".

        Section 4.   Amendment of Exhibit B. The site plan attached to this Amendment as
Exhibit "B'' (the "Revised Site Plan") is hereby substituted for the site plan attached to the
Agreement as Exhibit "B" (the "Original Site Plan"), so that from and after the effective date of
this Amendment the Revised Site Plan shall be effective and the Original Site Plan shall be
ineffective.

      Section 5.     No Other Modifications. Except as specifically amended in this
Amendment, the terms of the Agreement shall remain unmodified and in full force and effect
between the parties.

       DATED effective the date first-above written.

                                             CITY:

ATTEST:                                      COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, a Utah municipality


By: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __                     By:
                                                   - - - - - - - - -- - - -- - - -
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                       Micha eIT. Weichers, Mayor


STATE OF UTAH                )
                              : SS.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

       On_ December 2025, personally appeared before me Michael T. Weichers and Tiffany
Janzen, who duly acknowledged to me that they executed the foregoing document as the mayor
and the recorder, respectively, of COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, a Utah municipality.



                                             Notary Public


                                             DEVELOPER:

                                             LAND DEVELOPMENT LLC,
                                             a Utah limited liability company


                                             By:
                                                - -- - - - - - - - - - -- - - -
                                               Ad am Nash, Manager

                                                2
STATE OF UTAH           )
                         : SS.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

      On      December 2025, personally appeared before me Adam Nash, who duly
acknowledged to me that he executed the foregoing document as the manager of LAND
DEVELOPMENT LLC, an Utah limited liability company.



                                     Notary Public




                                        3
                          Exhibit "A" to
             First Amendment to Development Agreement
LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPERTY:

A parcel of land, being all of a parcel identified by the Salt Lake County Recorder as Parcel
No. 22-25-152-020 as contained in that Warranty Deed recorded July 13, 2022 as Entry No.
13984286 in Book 11356 at Page 760 in the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder, located
in the Northeast Quarter of Section 26 and the Northwest Quarter of Section 25, Township 2
South, Range l East, Salt Lake Base & Meridian more particularly described as follows:

Beginning at a point on the southerly right-of-way line of 7000 South Street (Fort Union
Boulevard), said point located N00°l5'35"W along the Section line 1,425.46 feet from the
West l/4 Comer of Section 25, T2S, RlE, SLB&M (Basis of Bearing: S00°03'40"E along
the S·ection line between West l/4 Corner and the Southwest Comer of said Section 25);
running thence along said southerly right-of-way line S61058'35"E 173.84 feet to the
westerly line of ADVENTURE CONDOMINIUMS II, a Utah condominium project,
according to the Condominium Plat recorded July 9, 1980 as Entry No. 3452035 in Book
80-7 at Page l 05 in the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder; thence along said westerly
line S00°38'33 "W l 60.09 feet to a northerly line of PINE COVE EAST Subdivision,
according to the official plat thereof recorded May 13, 1976 as Entry No. 2813927 in Book
76-5 at Page i04 in the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder; thence along said plat the
foUowing two (2) courses: (1) N64°00'00"W 286.02 feet; thence (2) N28°00 100"E 154.03
feet to said southerly right-of-way line of7000 South Street (Fort Union Boulevard); thence
along said southerly right-of-way line S59°20'04"E 3'8.48 feet to the point of beginning.




                                               4
             Exhibit "B" to
First Amendment to Development Agreement

      (Attach Copy of Revised Preliminary Site Plan)




                            5
                                                                                                                                                                      ..
                                                                                                                                                                      .........




                                                                                                                                                                   -7000 SOUTII STREET
                                                                                                                                                                (FORT UNION DOULEV ARD)
                                                                                                                                                                          11'\JIII.K' IIO,,t,D)
                   Ok.Al'I-IIC SCALI!
                                                                 - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -                                         ------------ - - ------               ..!..,&   -      -
k -..-i._w
                                                                                                                                      fi f ORT U ~~;:ON B L_V D __-_--_it
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   - -.---:;.")
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ---···.
PROPERTY OVERVIEW
  TOTAL ACREAGE                    .to.9S ACRES
  CURRENTZONING                    R·2·B

CONCEPT DESIGN
  R·2·B LOTS                       6 LOTS
  TWIN HOME UNITS                  6UNITS

PROPOSED ZONING
  ZONE                          R-2·8                                                                                                                                                                               106
  LOT SIZE                      8.0COSQFT                                                                                                                                                                       0.20ocres
  LOT WIDTH                     65'
  FRONT SETBACK                 25'                                                                                                                                                                             8790 sqr I' • ,
  SIDE SETBACK
  CORNER SID£ SETBACK
  REAR SETBACK
                                5' MINIMUM; 1s·roTAL
                                lO'
                                lO'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I,
  MAX. BUILDING HEIGHT
  MAX. LOT COVERAGE
                                35'                                                                                                                                                                                       ,. , i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          \'.
                                ""'
ACCESSORY BUILDING SETBAO(S
  FRONT                         6' FROM PRIMARY
                                BUILDING IN REAR YARD
  SIDE                          3' INTERIOR, 20' CORNER
  REAR                          3' INTERIOR. 20' CORNER

MAX. LOT COVERAGE
  LOT I                         <4,403 SQFT
  LOT2                          2.618 SOFT
  LOTl                          2,596 SOFT
  LOH                           2,390 SOFT
  LOTS                          2,311 son
  lOT6                          -4,39SSOfT

~ OTU:
   1.       THE DEVEL.Of'MENT AGREEMENT DOES NOT INCLUDE
            APPROVAL Of ANY UTILITY INFORMATION OR UTILrTY
            Pl.ANS. COMPL£Tt UTILITV INFORMATION MUST BE
            SUBMITTED WITH THE SUBDIVISION APPLICATION FOR
            STAFF TO CONDUCT A FULL SITE PLAN REVIEW.
  2.        THIS PROJECT DOES NOT INCLUOE APPROVAL Of ANY
            LANDSCAPE PLAN. A COMPUTE LANDSCAPE PlAN MUST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .,
            BE SUBMITTED ANO R!\lt£WEO A.SPART Of THE BUILDING
            PERMIT APPLICATION,
                                                                                                          .,,...
                                                                 NOTE! HOME. OWNER'S ASSOCIATION (HOA) TO MAINTAIN TH£ LANDSCAPE. ORl'IEWAYS; ANO SIOEWAUC AREAS F-ROM SNOW AND DEBRIS.



  HIGH EAST SUBDIVISION conce t Ian Y
 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY
 12/1/202S
 20.06 13
                           Cottonwood Heights
                           C11y b<11<Yr11 1hr C.IIIJOIIJ




                         Attachment 5
                      Resolution 2025-76
By this resolution, the council will declare surplus and designate
the method of disposition of certain personal property owned by
                             the city.
                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                    RESOLUTION No. 2025-76

                A RESOLUTION DECLARING CERTAIN PROPERTY SURPLUS

      WHEREAS, §2.150.060 of the COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE (the "Code") establishes the
procedures for disposal by the city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City") of its surplus property; and

        WHEREAS, the City's finance director previously has determined the surplus nature of
certain City property in accordance with Code §2. I50.060(B) and has prepared and presented to
the City's city council (the "Council") listings (collectively, the "List") of such property (the
"Property") as required by Code §2. l50.060(C), a copy of which is attached hereto as Addendum
"A"; and

       WHEREAS, the Council met on 16 December 2025 to consider, among other things, (a)
reviewing the List; (b) declaring the Property surplus; (c) establishing a minimum bid for each
item of the Property that is of greater than nominal value; and (d) approving the method of
detennining the highest and best economic return to the City of all items of the Property whose
reasonable value exceeds $5,000; and

        \VHEREAS, after revie-v.ring the List and careful consideration, the Council has
determined that it is in the best interests of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City
to (a) declare the Property on tbe List surplus; (b) establish a minimwn bid for each item of the
Property that is of greater than nominal value; and (c) approve the method of detennining the
highest and best economic return to the City of all items of the Property whose reasonalble value
exceeds $5,000;

       NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Cottonwood Heights city council as
follows:

        I.    The Property on the List is hereby declared to be surplus and no longer needed by
the City; and

        2.     All Property on the List is hereby declared to be of nominal value except any items
of the Property which are identified on the attached List as having greater than nominal value; and

        3.     The minimum bid for any items of the Property of greater than nominal value shall
be as specified on the attached List; and

       4.      The methods of detennining the highest and best economic return to the City of all
items of the Property whose reasonable value is specified on the List as exceeding $5,000 shall be
as shown on the attached List, which methods are hereby approved by the Council.

        This Resolution, assigned no. 2025-76, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

        PASSED AND APPROVED effective 16 December 2025.
ATTEST:                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By:-----------                          By:
                                              - - -- - -- - - - - - - - --
  Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                    Michael T. ,veichers, Mayor


                                        VOTING:

                                        Michael T. Weichers          Yea_Nay_
                                        Matt Holton                  Yea _ Nay_
                                        Suzanne Hyland               Yea_Nay_
                                        Shawn E. Newell              Yea_Nay_
                                        Ellen Birrell                Yea_Nay_

     DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 16th day of December 2025.

     RECORDED this_ day of December 2025.




                                              2
                                      Addendum "A"
           Swplus Item                Nominal       Minimum Bid   Method of Valuation
                                       Value?
Hyper GoGo electric motorcycle          No             $50        EBay or similar
for kids 3+, carbon black in color,
used in "The Lightning Thief'
musical production in July 2025.




                                                3
                       Cottonwood Heights
                       Ciry btt wrr11 t he tllll)Olli




                     Attachment 6
                  Resolution 2025-77
This resolution will approve various appointments and re-
appointments to the city's Health in the Heights advisory
    committee as recommended by the city manager.
                                   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                    RESOLUTION NO. 2025-77

                       A RESOLUTION APPOINTING MEMBERS OF THE
                     "HEALTH IN THE HEIGHTS" ADVISORY COMMITTEE

       WHEREAS, Part 8 of Chapter 2.140 of the COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE OF ORDINANCES
(the "Code"), comprising Code Sections 2.140.801 through 2.140.805, establishes the "Health in the
Heights" public health committee (the "Committee") as one of the advisory committees for the city
of Cottonwood Heights (the "City"); and

       WHEREAS, Code §2.140.803(B) provides that the Committee shall consist of at least 12 and
up to 30 members, with a demonstrated interest, competence or knowledge concerning physical and
behavioral public health issues; and

       WHEREAS, Code §2.140.104 provides that members of the Committee shall be appointed
and removed by the city manager (the "Manager") with advice and consent of the city council (the
"Council"), and that the terms of office shall be three years, with the terms of office of the initial
members staggered as necessary so that the terms of approximately one-third of the members expire
each year; and

       WHEREAS, on 17 December 2024 the Council appointed 19 initial members of the
Committee pursuant to its Resolution 2024-76 and thereafter made other appointments to and releases
from the Committee; and

        WHEREAS, the Council met on 16 December 2025 to, among other things, consider (a)
releasing certain fonner member, appointing certain new members, and reappointing certain current
members, of the Committee, and (b) ratifying and consenting to the current composition of
membership of the Committee; and

        WHEREAS, the Manager desires to (a) release former Committee members Paul Brenneman,
Kayla Cullimore and Robby Russo as regular members of the Committee, (b) appoint Emily Boyce,
Kenyon Kawa and Nathan Malan as new regular members of the Committee, and (c) reappoint Lauren
Black, Misty Clark, Isaiah Delpilar, Susan Edwards, Mary Ann Jensen and Bonnie Lee to new three-
year terms of office as regular members of the Committee; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has detennined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to give advice and consent to such
releases, appointments and reappointments as proposed by the Manager;

        NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights that the Council hereby gives advice and consents to the releases, appointments and
reappointments of the aforementioned persons to the Committee, and hereby ratifies and gives advice
and consent to the status of the following individuals as all the current members of the Committee for
the terms of office set forth opposite each name:

                                                                       Term Expires

               Audrey Durfee                                           1 December 2026
               Timothy Jahn                                            1 December 2026
            Nathan Malan                                        l December 2026
            Beatriz Mayorga                                     1 December 2026
            Maggie Mills                                        1 December 2026
            Riley Pilgrim                                       l December 2026
            Whitney Rosas                                       l December 2026
            Carol Ruddell                                       I December 2026

            Diane Foster-Burke                                  l December 2027
            Eva Chan                                            l December 2027
            Robby Russo                                         l December 2027
            Sean Steinman                                       l December 2027
            Mike Smith                                          1 December 2027
            Tammi Sumsion                                       l December 2027
            Danny Trujillo                                      l December 2027
            Chelsey Voss                                        l December 2027

            Lauren Black                                        l December 2028
            Emily Boyce                                         l December 2028
            Misty Clark                                         l December 2028
            Isaiah Delpilar                                     l December 2028
            Susan Edwards                                       I December 2028
            Mary Ann Jensen                                     l December 2028
            Kenyon Kawa                                         l December 2028
            Bonnie Lee                                          l December 2028

     This Resolution, assigned no. 2025-77, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

     PASSED AND APPROVED effective 16 December 2025.

ATTEST:                                   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By:_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __                  By:
                                               - - - - - - - - -- -- - - - -
   Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                    Mich a e1 T. Weichers, Mayor


                                          VOTING:

                                          Michael T. Weichers          Yea _ Nay_
                                          Matt Holton                  Yea_Nay_
                                          Suzanne Hyland               Yea_Nay_
                                          Shawn E. Newell              Yea_Nay _
                                          Ellen Birrell                Yea_Nay_

     DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 16th day of December 2025.

     RECORDED this_ day of December 2025.




                                               2
                          Cottonwood Heights
                          Ciry brm-em 1/,r m11J0m




                        Attachment 7
                     Resolution 2025-78
This resolution will approve the city's entry into an amendment
 to an existing interlocal agreement with Salt Lake County for
  TRCC funding of the improvements for phase 3 of the city's
             Highland Drive pedestrian trail project.
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                   RESOLUTION No. 2025-78

               A RESOLUTION APPROVING AMENDMENT NO 1 TO
      INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT WITH SALT LAKE COUNTY FOR TRCC FUNDING
               (HIGHLAND DRIVE PEDESTRIAN TRAIL-PHASE 3)

       WHEREAS, Salt Lake County (the "County") receives funds ("TRCC Funds") pursuant
to the Tourism, Recreation, Cultural, Convention, and Airport Facilities Tax Act, UTAH CODE
ANN.§§ 59-12-601 et seq. (the "TRCC Act"); and

        WHEREAS, the TRCC Act provides that TRCC Funds may be used, among other things,
for the development, operation, and maintenance of publicly owned or operated recreation, cultural
or convention facilities; and

       WHEREAS, the city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City") heretofore applied for and
requested TRCC Funds from the County to facilitate Phase 3 of the City's Highland Drive
Pedestrian Trail and related improvements (the "Traif'); and

       WHEREAS, the County appropriated TRCC Funds for such purpose as part of its budget;
and

        WHEREAS, the City and the County are "public agencies" for purposes of the Utah
Interlocal Cooperation Act, UTAH CODE ANN.§§ l I-13-101 et seq. (the "Cooperation Act"), and
are authorized by the Cooperation Act to act jointly and cooperatively on the basis of mutual
advantage in order to provide facilities in a manner that will accord best with geographic,
economic, population and other factors influencing the needs and development of local
communities; and

       WHEREAS, the Cooperation Act also authorizes a public agency to share its tax and other
revenues with other public agencies; and

       WHEREAS, for that purpose, on or about 9 May 2024 the County and the City entered
into Salt Lake County Contract No. 0000003984 (the "Agreement") for the purpose of effecting
the grant of $130,000 in TRCC Funds to the City for use on the Trail improvements described
above, on the terms and conditions specified in the Agreement; and

        WHEREAS, because the parties now wish to modify the Agreement's expenditure and
reporting deadlines, the City's city council (the "Council") met in regular session on 16 December
2025 to consider, among other things, approving the City's entry into an amendment (the
"Amendment") extending the Agreement's expenditure and reporting deadlines, a copy of which
Amendment is attached as an exhibit to this resolution; and

        WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed the form of the Amendment and, after careful
consideration, has determined that it is in the best interests of the health, safety and welfare of the
City's residents to approve the City's entry into the Amendment as proposed;
       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights that the Amendment is hereby approved, and that the City's mayor and recorder are
authorized and directed to execute and deliver the Amendment on behalf of the City.

      This Resolution, assigned no. 2025-78, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 16th day of December 2025.


ATTEST:                                    COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


                                           By _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ __ __
B y : - - - -- - - - - -- -
  Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                    Michael T. Weichers, Mayor


                                           VOTING:

                                           Michael T. Weichers          Yea_Nay_
                                           Matt Holton                  Yea_Nay_
                                           Suzanne Hyland               Yea_Nay_
                                           Shawn E. Newell              Yea _ Nay _
                                           Ellen Birrell                Yea_Nay_

       DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 16th day of December 2025.

       RECORDED this_ day of December 2025.




                                              2
                                                                County Contract No. 0000003984
                                                                      DA Log No 24CIV000315


                                     AMENDMENT NO. l

                                              To the

                                   AGREEMENT BETWEEN

                                    SALT LAKE COUNTY

                                              AND

                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                               ***
      THIS AMENDMENT NO.I to Salt Lake County Contract #0000003984 is effective as of
_ _ _ day of _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _, 2025, by and between SALT LAKE COUNTY, a
body corporate and politic of the State of Utah, for and on behalf of its Department of
Community Services ("County") and the COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, a municipal
corporation of the State of Utah C'City"). County and City may each be referred to herein as a
"Party" and collectively as the "Parties."

                                          RECITALS:

       A.      On or about May 9, 2024, the Parties entered into Salt Lake County Contract

# 0000003984 (the "Agreement");

       B.      The Parties now wish to amend the Agreement to extend the expenditure and

reporting deadlines.

                                      AMENDMENT

       The Parties agree to amend the Agreement as follows:

       I.      The paragraph 2, is deleted and replaced as follows:

       2.      CITY'S OBLIGATIONS AND REPRESENTATIONS.


       A.     Acknowledgement. City acknowledges that the TRCC Funds provided to City
under this Agreement are County public funds received pursuant to the TRCC Act and Salt Lake
County Code of Ordinances §3.10.030. 3.10.040, and 3. l0.051, and therefore must be used for
the development, operation, and maintenance of publicly owned or operated recreation, cultural,
or convention facilities.

       B.     Allowable Uses and Limitation on Use.


               (i)    City shall use the TRCC Funds provided under this Agreement solely to
       cover costs incurred by City to develop the Project as described in EXHIBI'f A,
       (application) and EXHIBIT B, (project budget).

               (ii)     City shall not expend any TRCC Funds on: (a) fund-raising expenditures
       related to capital or endowment campaigns, grants or re-grants; (b) direct political
       lobbying, (c) bad debt expense, (d) non-deductible tax penalties, (e) operating expenses
       that are utilized in calculating federal umelated business income tax; or (f) in any other
       manner that would be inconsistent with the use stated in Paragraphs 2A and 2B of this
       Agreement.

       C.      Project Completion Deadline. Recipient shall complete the project scope as
outlined in City' s TRCC Application hereto as EXHIBIT A by June 30,
2026. Any scope change for the project must be requested and approved by the TRCC advisory
board before the work is completed.

        D.       Match Requirement. If City's TRCC Application attached hereto as EXHIBIT A
and/or budget attached as EXHIBIT B indicate that City will make a matching contribution
toward the purpose for which TRCC Funds will be used by City under this Agreement, City
shall make the matching contribution so indicated in the amoimt specified in City' s Application.
If City fails to make and expend such a matching contribution prior to June 30, 2026, the
County may require repayment of TRCC Funds from City for noncompliance with this
prov1s1on.

        E.      Reimbursement Deadline. City shall furnish to County the TRCC Reimbursement
Forni, which can be found at https://www.saltlakecounty.gov/community-services/trcc-support-
program/, together with such invoices or other supporting documentation as County may reasonably
require. All requests for reimbursement under this Agreement shall be made on or before
September 30, 2026. Additionally, if it is later detem1ined that City used any portion of the
TRCC Funds for anything other than for the purposes identified in Paragraph 2B above, City
shall immediately pay to the County an amount equal to the amount of TRCC Funds spent for
purposes other than those identified in Paragraph 2B.

        F.    Reporting Requirements. City shall submit to the County a completed copy of
the TRCC Project Status Report, which can be found at
https://www.saltlakecounty.gov/community-services/trcc-support-program/, detailing how the
TRCC Funds were expended no later than December 31, 2024; December 31, 2025; and
September 30, 2026.

       G.      Recordkeeping. City agrees to maintain its books and records in such a way that



                                                2
any TRCC Funds received from the County will be shown separately in the City's books. City
shall maintain records adequate to identify the use of the TRCC Funds for the purposes specified
in this Agreement. City shall make its books and records available to the County at reasonable
times.

       H.      Public Funds and Public Monies:

                       (i)    City agrees that the TRCC Funds are "public funds" and "public
       monies," meaning monies, funds, and accounts, regardless of the source from which they
       are derived, that are owned, held, or administered by the State or any of its boards,
       commissions, institutions, departments, divisions, agencies, bureaus, laboratories, or
       similar instmmentalities, or any county, city, school district, political subdivision, or
       other public body. The terms also include monies, funds or accounts that have been
       transferred by any of the aforementioned public entities to a private contract provider for
       public programs or services. Said funds shall maintain the nature of "public funds" while
       in City's possession.

               (ii)    City, as the recipient of "public funds" and "public monies" pursuant to
       this and other agreements related hereto, expressly agrees that it, its officers, and its
       employees are obligated to receive, keep safe, transfer, disburse and use these "public
       funds" and "public monies" as authorized by law and this Agreement for TRCC
       qualifying purposes in Salt Lake County. City understands that it, its officers, and its
       employees may be criminally liable under Utah Code Ann. § 76-8-402 for misuse of
       public funds or monies. City expressly agrees that the County may monitor the
       expenditure of TRCC Funds by City.

              (iii)   City agrees not to make TRCC Funds or proceeds from such funds
       available to any public officer or employee or in violation of the Public Officers' and
       Employees' Ethics Act, Utah Code Ann.§§ 67-16-1, et seq. (1953, as amended).

       I.      Right to Verify and Audit. The County reserves the right to verify application
and evaluation information and to audit the use of TRCC Funds received by City under this
Agreement, and the accounting of such use. If the County requests an audit, City agrees to
cooperate fully with the County and its representatives in the perfonnance of the audit.

         J.      Noncompliance. City agrees that the County may withhold TRCC Funds or other
funds or require repayment of TRCC Funds from City for noncompliance with this Agreement,
for failure to comply with directives regarding the use of public funds, or for misuse of public
funds or monies.

       K.      Representations.

                       (ii)     No Officer or Employee Interest. City represents and agrees that
               no officer or employee of the City has or shall have any pecuniary interest, direct
               or indirect, in this Agreement or the proceeds resulting from the perfonnance of
               this Agreement.



                                                 3
                        (iii)   Ethical Standards. City represents that it has not: (a) provided an
               illegal gift in connection with this Agreement to any County officer or employee,
               or former County officer or employee, or to any relative or business entity of a
               County officer or employee, or relative or business entity of a fonner County
               officer or employee; (b) retained any person to solicit or secure this Agreement
               upon an agreement or understanding for a commission, percentage, brokerage or
               contingent fee, other than bona fide employees of bona fide commercial agencies
               established for the purpose of securing business; (c) breached any of the ethical
               standards in connection with this Agreement set forth in State statute or Salt Lake
               County Code of Ordinances§ 2.07; or (d) knowingly influenced, and hereby
               promises that it will not knowingly influence, in connection with this Agreement,
               any County officer or employee or former County officer or employee to breach
               any of the ethical standards set forth in State statute or Salt Lake County
               ordinances.


       2.      All Parts, Paragraphs, Attachments and other provisions of the Agreement shall be

the same and remain in full force and effect.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Amendment No. l,

the day and year first above written.


                                   [Signature Pages to Follow]




                                                 4
                       SIGNATURE PAGE FOR THE COUNTY


                                                     SALT LAKE COUNTY:


                                                     By _ _ _ _ __ _ __ __ _ _ _ __
                                                          Mayor Jennifer Wilson or Designee

                                                     Dated: - - -- - - - - -, 2025


Approved by:

DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY SERVICES

By _ __ __ __ _ _ _ _ __
    Robin Chalhoub
    Department Director




Reviewed and Advised as to Form and Legality:


   Craig J.           Digitally signed by Craig J.
                      Wangsgard
                      Date:2025.12.05 11:18:36
By Wang S g ard       -o7'oo·
    Senior Deputy District Attorney




                              [Signatures continue on next page.}




                                                        5
INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT--SIGNATURE PAGE FOR THE CITY

                                                        COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS


                                                        By _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __

                                                        Name:
                                                                 --------------
                                                        Title:
                                                                 ---------------
                                                        Dated:
                                                                 - - - - - - - - - -, 2025




Attest:




- - - - - - - -, City Recorder
Date signed: __________




Approved as to Proper Form a11d Compliance with Applicable Law:

CITY ATTORNEY

By_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __

Name: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __

Dated:
          - - - - - - - - - - -, 2025


H:\Share\CWANGSGARD\TRCC'\2024\Cottonwood Heights Extension\Cottonwood Heights Amendment I• 12.5.25.docx




                                                            6
