 Staff Report Memo
To: Mayor Bennion and City Council                    From: Tiffany Janzen, City Recorder
Date: January 6, 2026
Re: Staff Memos for the City Council meetings scheduled for the 6th day of January 2026

Meeting Requested:          Business Meeting ☒   Work Session ☒   Other ☐ ___________________
Public Hearing Needed?      Yes ☐ No ☒ Undetermined ☐
                            Denied ☐ Approved ☒ Continued ☐
CM Approval or Denial
                            CM Signature: _____________________________


Appendix 1 – Agendas for January 6, 2025, City Council Work Session and Business Meeting

Appendix 2 – Meeting Minutes for City Council Meetings on 12/16/2025

Appendix 3 – Staff Report/ Big Cottonwood Canyon EA Response Letter Discussion Jared
Gerber

Appendix 4 – Staff Report/Telecom Tax Discussion Jared Gerber

Appendix 5 – Staff Report/Flash Vote Survey Discussion Jared Gerber

Appendix 6 – Staff Report/Legislative Priorities Discussion Jared Gerber

Appendix 7 - Staff Report/ Action Items Shane Topham


CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
Attachment 1 – Ordinance 458
Attachment 2 - Ordinance 459
Attachment 3 – Ordinance 460
Attachment 4 – Ordinance 461
Attachment 5 - Resolution 2026-01
Attachment 6 – Resolution 2026-02
Attachment 7 – Resolution 2026-03
Attachment 8 – Resolution 2026-04
Attachment 9 – Resolution 2026-05
Attachment 10 – Resolution 2026-06
                      Cottonwood Heights
                      Cuy brtu-em the r,111)0111




                     Appendix 1

                   January 6, 2026

City Council Work Session and Business Meeting Agendas
            NOTICE OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
                       WORK SESSION AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights City Council will hold a Work Session at
approximately 4:00 p.m., or soon thereafter, on Tuesday, January 6, 2026, in the Cottonwood
Heights City Cmmcil Work Room located at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood Heights,
Utah. The public may remotely view the open portions of the meeting through live broadcast by
connecting to https://www.youtube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams, the city's YouTube
channel.

4:00 p.m.     l.     WELCOME - Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion

              2.     REVIEW OF BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA
                     Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion (10-15 min.)

              3.     REPORTS
                   a. Utah Open Lands Transit to Trails Program
                      Kaitie Eddington (20 min.)

              4.     STAFF REPORTS
                     (Each week the city council and staffprovide informational reports as a method of
                     keeping up on the day-to-day activities of the city. This agenda item is set aside to
                     allow council members to ask questions orfor staff to bring the council up to date
                     regarding any changes since the report was made).

                    a. Big Cottonwood Canyon EA Response Letter Discussion
                       City Manager Jared Gerber (20 min.)
                    b. Telecom Tax Discussion
                       City Manager Jared Gerber (20 min.)
                    c. Flash Vote Survey Discussion
                       City Manager Jared Gerber (20 min.)
                    d. Legislative Priorities Discussion
                       City Manager Jared Gerber (20 minutes)
                    e. Distribution and Collection of Mayor Pro Tempore Ballots
                       City Recorder Tiffany Janzen (10 min.)


              4.     REVIEW OF CALENDARS AND UPCOMING EVENTS*
                    a. Saturday, Febrnary 7th from 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. Lunar New Year
                       Celebration at City Hall
                    b. Friday, February 20th from 6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. Cozy Paint Night at
                       City Hall (Cost is $20 per person, limited space available)
                    c. Thursday, March 19th from 7:00 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. The Jazz Ambassadors
                       of the US Army Field Band at Butler Middle School (tickets required, free
       event)

     *For more information, please visit CH.UTAH.GOV and click Community
      Calendar


5.   POSSIBLE   CLOSED    MEETING   TO   DISCUSS
     LITIGATION; REAL PROPERTY PURCHASE OR
     LEASE; THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
     COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH
     OF AN INDIVIDUAL; AND/OR ANOTHER PERMITTED
     PURPOSE UNDER UCA 52-2-205

6.   ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION
                                                       /'.'..
                                                    {;,ti~\     I


                                          Cottonwood Heights
                                           Ci1y between the canyons


            NOTICE OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
                      BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights City Council will hold a Business Meeting
beginning at approximately 7:00 p.m., or soon thereafter, on Tuesday, January 6, 2026, in the
Cottonwood Heights City Council Chambers located at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood
Heights, Utah. The public may remotely view the open portions of the meeting through live
broadcast by connecting to https://www.voutube.com/(a)CottonwoodHeights/streams, the
city's YouTube channel.
Persons physically attending the meeting in the City Council Chambers may make verbal comments
to the City Council when invited to do so, after completing a speaker comment card. Citizen
comments may also be submitted in writing to the city recorder at cityrecorder(a),ch.utah.gov by
noon, on the meeting date. In the interest of time and those attending the meeting live, however,
submitted written comments will be entered into the record and distributed to the City Council,
but will not be read at the public meeting.
Civility and decornm should be applied in all discussions and debates. Difficult questions,
tough challenges to a point of view, and criticism of ideas and information are legitimate elements
of a free democracy in action. Public officials and the public are encouraged to refrain from making
belligerent, personal, impertinent, slanderous, threatening, abusive, or disparaging comments.

7:00 p.m.      1.0     WELCOME - Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion

               2.0     PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE - By Invitation

               3.0    CITIZEN COMMENTS
                       "During each regular city council meeting (specifically excluding work sessions),
                      there will be a period not lo exceed sixty minutes for citizen comment. " (Cottonwood
                      Heights Code of Ordinances 2.30.J 60 (BJ) Persons physically attending the meeting
                      in the City Council Chambers may make verbal comments lo the City Council when
                      invited to do so by the meeting chair. Persons attending the meeting remotely may
                      not make verbal comments lo the City Council during the meeting. Persons attending
                      the meeting remotely, or who do not attend the meeting either physically or remotely,
                      are invited to submit written comments to the City Recorder before noon on the
                      meeting date. Written comments that are timely submitted will be admitted into the
                      record of the meeting and distributed lo the City Council but will not be read at the
                      public meeting.

               4.0     RECOGNITION
               4.1     State Citation Legislative Certificate for Stan Rosenzweig - Senator
                       Kathleen Riebe

               5.0    CHPD PERSONNEL UPDATES
               5 .1    Announcement of Promotions - Chief Robby Russo
6.0    REPORTS
6.1    Public Works Quarterly Report - Public Works Director Matt Shipp

7.0    ACTION ITEMS
7.1    Consideration of Ordinance 458 Adopting an Annual Meeting Schedule
       for 2026.
       (This ordinance will adopt a schedule for regular meetings of the city's city
       council, planning commission and other public bodies for calendar year 2026, as
       required by Utah Code Ann. 52-4-202).
7.2    Consideration of Ordinance 459 lmposing a Telecommunications Tax.
       (This ordinance will impose a 3.5% municipal telecommunications license tax on
       a telecommunications provider's gross receipts from telecommunications services
       that are allributed lo the city of Collonwood Heights as provided in the Municipal
       Telecommunications License Tax Act, UTAH CODE ANN. 10-1-401 et seq., and
       enact new Chapter 3.12 of the city's code of ordinances concerning such license
       la-').
7.3    Consideration of Ordinance 460 Granting a Telecommunications
       Franchise.
       (This ordinance will grant a non-exclusive franchise allowing All West/ Utah, Inc.
       dlbla All West Fiber lo install and operate a fiber-optic cable telecommunications
       system in the city's public right-of-way).
7.4    Consideration of Ordinance 461 Amending the Cottonwood Heights Code
       Regarding Bonding of Officers.
       (This ordinance will amend Section 2. 10. 050 of the city's code of ordinances to
       change the fidelity bonding requirement for certain city officers as formerly
       specified in state law to instead require crime insurance coverage as provided in
       H.B. 64 enacted by the Utah Legislature in its 2025 general session).
7 .5   Consideration of Resolution 2026-01 Ratifying the Election of a Mayor Pro
       Tempore.
        (Section 2.30. 040 of the city 's code of ordinances provides that the council at its
       first regular meeting in Janua,y ofeven-numbered years shall by secret ballot elect
       a mayor pro tempore to pe1form certain limited functions of the mayor during
        times when the mayor is unable or unwilling lo act. This resolution will ratify such
       election of a mayor pro tempore for January 2026 until a successor is elected,
        likely in Janumy 2028).
7.6    Consideration of Resolution 2026-02 Approving a Revocable Right of
       Access Agreement with Rocky Mountain Power for a Public Art Project.
       (By this resolution, the council will approve the city's entry into an agreement
       whereunder Rocky Mountain Power will authorize the city to continue
       implementation of a community art pilot program allowing local artists to
       decorate certain of RMP 's pad-mounted electric transmission and distribution
       equipment in the city's public places).
7.7    Consideration of Resolution 2026-03                 Amending a Development
       Agreement for Canyon Cove Subdivision.
       (This resolution will approve an amendment to the development agreement for the
       Cottonwood Canyon Cove Subdivision that was approved under Resolution 2023-
       24. The pu,pose of the amendment is to modify the Exhibit D "Final Park Plan ").
7.8    Consideration of Resolution 2026-04 Approving an lnterlocal Agreement
       with Sandy City for a Joint Crosswalk Study.
       (This resolution will approve the city's entry into an interlocal agreement with
       Sandy City concerning a joint crosswalk study on Creek Road between Union Park
       Avenue and 3500 East).
7 .9   Consideration of Resolution 2026-05 Approving an lnterlocal Agreement
       with Salt Lake County for Aerial Imagery.
                           (By this resolution, the council will approve the city's ent,y into an interlocal
                           cooperation agreement whereunder Salt Lake County will provide certain aerial
                           image,y.for use by various city departments).
                  7.10     Consideration of Resolution 2026-06 Approving an Appointment to the
                           Arts Council.
                           (This resolution will approve and ratify the manager's appointment of Lucas
                           Manning lo the city's arts council).

                  8.0      CONSENT CALENDAR
                  8.1      Approval of the minutes for the City Council Work Session and Business
                           Meetings of December 16, 2025.

                  9.0      ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING

                                        PUBLIC COMMENT PROCEDURE
      During each City Council business meeting (specifically excluding work sessions), there will be a period
      not to exceed 60 minutes for citizen comment. (Code of Ordinances 2.30.160 (B)). Any person wishing
      to comment on any item not othe1wise on the agenda for public comment may address the City Council
      during the Public Comment period. Any person wishing to comment during the Public Collllilent period
      shall request recognition by the Mayor and upon recognition, approach the microphone and state their
      name, state if they are a resident of Cottonwood Heights and either provide their address or their Council
      district; and then address the City Council. Any person wishing to comment shall limit their comments to
      no more than three (3) minutes unless more or less time is specified by the Mayor. Citizen groups who are
      present will be asked to appoint a spokesperson, who shall limit their comments to no more than five (5)
      minutes unless more or less time is specified by the Mayor. All cotmnents shall be directed to the City
      Council. No person addressing the City Council during the comment period shall be allowed to conunent
      more than once during that comment period. Speakers should not expect any debate or dialogue with the
      Mayor, City Council or City Staff during the meeting.
      The City Council may choose to limit the amount of time allotted to public comment on a specific issue.
      In such cases, special procedures for dete1mining who will be allowed to speak and the order of such
      speakers will be detennined by the Council. In the interest of time and those attending the meeting live,
      submitted written comments will be entered into the record, distributed to the City Council but not read at
      the public meeting.


On Wednesday, December 31, 202 5, a copy ofthe foregoing notices was posted in conspicuous view in the.front foyer
of the Coffonwood Heights City Oj]ices, Cottonwood Heights, Utah. A copy of this notice was sent to the Salt Lake
Tribune and Deseret News, newspapers of general circulation in the city, by the Office of the City Recorder. The
agendas were also posted 011 the City's website at ·w·ww.ch.11/ah.gov and the Utah Public Notice website al
hllp:/lp11111.111ah. gov.

DATED this 315' day of December 2025                                      Tiffany Janzen, City Recorder

The city building for this meeting is accessible. In compliance wirl, the Americans with Disabilities Act, people with
disabilities may make requests.for reasonable acco111111odation or assistance by notifying the City Recorder at 801 -944-
7021 or recorder(ipc/1. utali. gov, at least two business days before the meeting, or by calling Relay Utah at 711.
                                   -
                              (ft' \       I



                    Cottonwood Heights
                    Ciry !Nru~m 1hr r,lll)OIIJ




                   Appendix 2

              MEETING MINUTES
City Council Work Session and Business Meeting for
                   12/16/2025
MINUTES       OF    THE   COTTONWOOD   HEIGHTS    JOINT  PLANNING
COMMISSION/CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION HELD TUESDAY, DECEMBER 16,
2025, AT 4:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL WORK ROOM
LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD, COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Present:                Mayor Mike Weichers, Council Member Matt Holton, Council Member
                        Ellen Birrell, Council Member Suzanne Hyland, Council Member Shawn
                        Newell

Staff Present:          City Manager, Jared Gerber; City Attorney, Shane Topham; Police Chief,
                        Robby Russo; Records, Culture, and Human Resources Director, Barbara
                        Higgins; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen; Community and Economic
                        Development Director, Jim Spufig; IT Manager, Matt Ervin; Public Works
                        Director and City Engineer, Matt Shipp; Unified Fire Authority, Riley
                        Pilgiim

1.0     WELCOME - Mayor Pro Tempore Shawn Newell.

Mayor Mike Weichers called the City Council Work Session to order at 4:00 PM.

2.0     REVIEW OF BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA - Mayor Mike Weichers.

Mayor Weichers reviewed the Meeting Agenda and stated that the Pledge of Allegiance would be
led by Police Chief, Robby Russo, followed by City Council Committee Reports and the Citizen
Comment Period. Item 5 was the annual Financial Statement presentation by Finance Director,
Scott Jurges.

There were eight legislative items. Item 6.1 was consideration of Ordinance 455 Adopting a
Supplemental Name for a Street Segment. Item 6.2 was consideration of Ordinance 456 Amending
the Gen§ral Plan to Include a Water Use and Preservation Element. Item 6.3 was consideration of
Ordinance 457 Adopting an Exception to Controlled Access to Big Cottonwood Canyon Road at
Mine Shaft Road. The above items were discussed in more detail later in the meeting.

Item 6.4 was consideration of Resolution 2025-75 Approving an Amendment to a Development
Agreement. Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung, reported that the
amendment was to the Site Plan exhibit for the High East subdivision Development Agreement.
The original intent was to share an entrance with a neighboring property, but the applicant was
unable to reach an agreement with that property owner. As a result, the driveway was moved
to the west side of the project. Language related to zone setbacks and standards was also
clarified. All City departments had approved the change.

In response to a question raised by Mayor Weichers, Mr. Spung stated that Planning Depaiiment
staff reviewed the change for compliance with City Code, but it did not go back before the
Planning Commission.

Council Member Newell asked about the distance between the previous and new d1iveways.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for December 16, 2025    Approved: _ _ __ _ _

                                                     1
Mr. Spung estimated the distance at 500 feet. Engineering staff reviewed the revised Site Plan
for proximity to the driveway and street but expressed no concerns. The six units are not
expected to generate a significant amount of traffic. Council Member Hyland remarked that
there will still be one driveway instead of six, which was the Council's preference.

Item 6.5 was consideration of Resolution 2025-76 Declaring Certain Property Surplus. Chief
Russo reported that Sergeant Ken Dailey worked in law enforcement for 40 years and had been
with Cottonwood Heights since 2009. Sergeant Dailey was retiring, and it is customary to
reward retiring officers with their badge and firearm as indicated in Item 6.8. Chief Russo
requested that a small electric motorcycle that used as a prop for a recent play be surplussed so
it could be dressed up as a Harley Davidson and given to Sergeant Dailey at his farewell party.

Item 6.6 was consideration of Resolution 2025-77 Approving Appointments to the Health in
the Heights Advisory Committee. City Manager, Jared Gerber, reported that two new members
would be appointed and members with expiring terms would be reappointed.

Item 6. 7 was consideration of Resolution 2025-78 Approving an Amendment to an Interlocal
Agreement with Salt Lake County for Tourism, Recreation, Culture, and Convention ("TRCC")
Funding. Public Works Director, Matt Shipp reported that the TRCC funding was already in
place, but the associated Interlocal Agreement was scheduled to expire on December 3 1. Salt
Lake County had agreed to extend the existing funding, which is eannarked for the Highland
Phase 3 Trail project at the City's Highland Drive and La Cresta Drive entrance.

The final agenda item was the Consent Calendar.

3.0       REPORTS

          3.1   UDOT BCC Environmental Update -Ericka Mendoza.

Utah Department of Transportation ("UDOT") Project Manager, Devin Weder, and United States
Depaitment of Agriculture ("USDA") Forest Service Salt Lake District Ranger, Adam Shaw
introduced themselves. Mr. Weder then presented the Big Cottonwood Canyon Environmental
Assessment. The study evaluated two alternatives: no-action and a proposed action.

The no-action alternative assumed:

      •   Planned projects would be completed, including all Wasatch Front Regional Council
          ("WFRC") transit projects except the Big Cottonwood Canyon tolling and enhanced bus
          routes.
      •   Utah Transit Authority ("UTA") bus service would continue.
      •   No tolling or improvements to Big Cottonwood Canyon.
      •   The Gravel Pit Mobility Hub and interchange would be constrncted, but they would not
          serve Big Cottonwood Canyon.

The proposed action was an enhanced Mobility Hub that would add:


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for December 16, 2025     Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     2
   •    A grade-separated interchange to access the Mobility Hub.
   •    A bus-only transitway at the base of Big Cottonwood Canyon.
   •    Mid-canyon bus stop improvements and tolling in the upper canyon.
   •    A bus priority lane from the fire station to Brighton Resort.
   •    A resort bus stop at Solitude and Brighton.

The purpose of the study was to reduce winter traffic congestion on Big Cottonwood Canyon Road
as directed by SB 2. The first identified need is for decreased mobility during peak winter periods,
as that will lead to increased travel times. The no-action alternative was projected to result in an
average travel time of approximately one hour in the morning and 45 minutes in the evening. The
proposed action would result in an average travel time of30 minutes in the morning and 28 minutes
in the evening.

The second identified need is to maintain operational capacity. Big Cottonwood Canyon Road can
accommodate up to 1,000 cars per hour, and travel times increase dramatically when traffic volume
exceeds that number. The proposed action would maintain peak operational capacity by
implementing tolling and providing enhanced bus service.

The third identified need is for the bus service to accommodate travel demand. UTA previously
had a 15-minute bus service that was decreased to a 30-minute service with no decrease in
ridership. The proposed action would provide enhanced winter service, leaving the Mobility Hub
every five to 10 minutes. More people will take advantage of the bus service if it is more frequent
and comfortable to use.

In response to a question raised by Mayor Weichers, Mr. Weder stated that the toll cost had not
been detennined. It may be between $20 and $30. If a lower fee will incentivize people to carpool
or take the bus, the toll will be lower. He noted that the peak hours were not defined in the study
because the time horizon is 25 to 30 years and peak hours will likely change in that time, but tolls
would apply during those hours.

Mr. Weder reported that most non-canyon impacts will occur at the Gravel Pit, including the
Mobility Hub, interchange, and associated widening of Wasatch Boulevard, and transit hub. His
intention is to work closely with the Mayor and City Council during the process. Impacts inside
the canyon include changes to the Forest Plan. No homes or businesses will be relocated, and only
one full parcel will be purchased. Eleven partial acquisitions will be required for the Mobility Hub
and 21 for in-canyon improvements.

Environmental impacts:

    •   Potential habitat disruption for the Columbia Spotted Frog and Bonneville Cutthroat Trout.
    •   Minor disturbance of streams, ponds, and ditches.
    •   Approximately 18 acres of hard road surface will be added, primarily in the Gravel Pit.
    •   Visual impacts at the Gravel Pit and Solitude Resort.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for December 16, 2025     Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     3
The enhanced bus service will initially run every 10 to 15 minutes, which would double or triple
the cun-ent service. In-season operation would be from 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. every day. By
2050, service is expected to run every six minutes.

Council Member Hyland stated that there is technology available to reserve bus seats. Mr. Weder
stated that Salt Lake County and UDOT had partnered on Cottonwood Connect, which allowed
advanced purchases, but that system could require an attendant and cause delays. Such a system
would need to be researched further. Council Member Holton remarked that if the goal was to
encourage families to use the bus service, a reservation system would be necessary.

Mr. Weder indicated that pickups would occur inside the parking garage and drop-offs would be
outside at each resort.

The bus priority lane at the top of the canyon would run approximately one mile from Camp Tuttle
Road to the southern end of Brighton Loop Road and would save an average of five minutes per
round trip. On an 85 th percentile day, the round trip would be reduced by almost 20 minutes.
Council Member Hyland noted that traffic also backs up at the S-curve. Mr. Weder stated that the
road would have to be realigned to con-ect that issue.

Mid-canyon bus stops would provide access to trailheads at Spruces Campground and Cardiff
Fork. Mr. Shaw stated that there is a high demand to travel to these locations. All mid-canyon
bus stops will be revitalized to move buses out of the traffic lanes. Restroom and parking
improvements were also planned for Cardiff Fork. The Silver Fork Lodge stop will be revamped
with dedicated areas for loading and unloading, and the unofficial Silver Lake stop will be made
permanent with a dedicated crosswalk.

Mr. Weder discussed the planned Mobility Hub. It will have approximately 1,750 parking spaces
on four levels of parking, as well as 14 bus bays. Fourteen bus bays will accommodate 23 buses
per hour. In response to a question raised by Mayor Weichers, Mr. Weder reported that UDOT
had not yet determined the Mobility Hub's specific location within the Gravel Pit.

The bus-only transitway will include a pedestrian path that ties the Gravel Pit into the existing
path. There will be a bus-only traffic signal to allow buses to get up the canyon. Council Member
Bin-ell asked how cyclists traveling up Mine Shaft or into the canyon will be acc01mnodated. Mr.
Weder stated that the plan did not address changes at the intersection; those are addressed in Phase
2 of the Little Cottonwood Canyon Environmental Impact Statement ("EIS"). The Big
Cottonwood Canyon project was a separate environmental decision.

Mr. Weder presented concept renderings of resort bus stops and indicated that each facility will
look different as it will match the specific resort. Bus stops will be on Forest Service property and
meet their aesthetic guidelines. All facilities will be heated and have lockers, restrooms, benches,
and tables for riders, with separate areas for drivers. UDOT worked closely with Brighton and
Solitude Resorts on the bus stop plans. In response to a question raised by Council Member Bin-ell,
Mr. Weder indicated that specific details and potential labels can be found in the architectural
appendix.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for December 16, 2025      Approved: _ _ __ _ _

                                                     4
The Brighton facility will take up a portion of the resort parking, and the Solitude facility will
require the removal of a stand of trees. Their goal is to locate the bus stops near the road and
outside of reso1t parking while maintaining a distance of at least 100 feet from the creek and 50
feet from tributaries. Mr. Shaw stated that the Solitude bus stop is outside of the ski area, and it is
important that they not give the appearance that the ski resort boundaries have been expanded.
UDOT will apply for special-use pennits to construct and operate all resort bus stops.

Mayor Weichers inquired as to whether the service would be operated by UDOT or UTA. Mr.
Weder stated that a final decision had not been made, but UDOT would likely operate the facilities.
UTA's canyon service was currently contracted, and the proposed service would be hard to staff
and equip because it is not year-round. UDOT has more flexibility. UTA works with contracted
union drivers, and state employees cannot be pait of a u_nion.

The Solitude bus stop will include a pedestrian walkway across the creek to the Moonbeam base
facility, as well as a potential two-stall garage for snow removal equipment storage. The Brighton
bus stop will overlap with their parking lot and require the removal of some stalls, but the resmt
understands the benefits. An exit will be added at the north side of the bus facility to facilitate
traffic flow out of the parking lot.

Council Member Birrell asked if the oedicated bus lane would be a priority installation. Mr. Weder
stated that it will be a priority as it will significantly reduce travel time. UDOT hopes to have a
final decision in the Spring and move forward q-uickly from that point.

Tolling will be variable to encourage transit use and carpooling. The goal is to change behaviors
and manage the roadway, not generate revenue. The system will use an electronic pass or license
plate recognition, and there will likely be exemptions for people who live and work in the toll
zone.

The Mobility Hub is expected to cost approximately $200 million, including the interchange. The
total anticipated project cost is approximately $250 million, which will be partially funded through
the Little Cottonwood Canyon project.

Mr. Weder reported that the public comment period would end on January 12, 2026. UDOT
requested input on potential impacts of the proposed action and mitigations, as well as the potential
USDA Forest Service decisions. The Forest Service public comment period will end on Januaiy
9, 2026. They were seeking input on the proposed special use pennits to allow UDOT to construct
and operate the two new transit stops at the ski areas, as well as whether to allow reconfiguration
of the mid-canyon bus stops and installation of the bus priority lane.

Mayor Weichers asked for more information on the timeline. Mr. Weder stated that once the
public comment pe1iods close, they will consider all comments received and make any necessary
revisions to the Environmental Assessment. They hope to reach a final decision by Spring 2026.
In response to a follow-up question, he stated that UDOT has a 150-day statute of limitations for
litigation, but the USDA has a much longer period. Mr. Shaw stated that the Forest Service review
period for objections is approximately 90 days after the draft decision is released, and any litigation
would be initiated after the objection period closes. Litigation could delay the process. The

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for December 16, 2025       Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                     5
Mobility Hub will take two to three years to complete. Once that additional parking is available,
they will increase bus frequency.

Council Member Birrell asked why UDOT had not considered regionalized parking as had been
requested by former Mayor Mike Peterson. Mr. Weder stated that they considered regional
parking as part of the Little Cottonwood Canyon EIS. One barrier was cost. People also have a
mental barrier to waiting for a bus, and ridership would decrease with a one-hour frequency from
four locations as opposed to a 15-minute frequency from one Mobility Hub. UDOT will work
with UTA to provide UTA routes that serve riders from other areas to the hub. Council Member
Birrell stated that recreationalists visit the canyons on Saturdays, Sundays, and holiday Mondays
throughout the year, and she did not understand why the hub would be set up for commuters. She
believes it would be beneficial to provide one transfer for people from other cities rather than
routing everyone through the Mobility Hub. Mr. Weder explained that it would not be financially
feasible and would require that they decrease service to the canyons. The goal is to increase
regional transportation through UTA to the Mobility Hub rather than having ski buses leave from
multiple locations.

Council Member Hyland asked if the mid-canyon buses will run during hiking season. Mr. Weder
reported that from UDOT's perspective, the road works as designed in the summer, so that was
not considered in the study. However, the current parking capacity is inadequate, and potential
solutions are being considered.

Mr. Weder stated that multiple project team members would be at the December 17, 2025, public
meeting at Canyon View Elementary to answer questions and provide detailed information.
Comments are accepted via postal mail, hand delivery, online comments, email, phone, and text.
A court reporter will be at the public meeting to take verbal comments. In response to a question
from Council Member Hyland, he stated that comments are welcome in any form, but detailed
personal comments are preferred. Chain emails are less effective because they do not provide new
infonnation or insight.

4.0     STAFF REPORTS

        4.1     Adopting a Supplemental Name for a Street Segment (lncheon Yeonsu Road)
                Discussion -Jared Gerber.

Mr. Gerber reviewed the proposal to rename a pmtion of2300 East from Bengal Boulevard to Fort
Union Boulevard Incheon Yeonsu Road in honor of Cottonwood Heights' Sister City. The name
would be honorary only to reciprocate for their honorary naming of Utah Cottonwood Heights-ro.

Council Member Holton stated that he hopes to leave a legacy where everyone is better connected
as neighbors and create better experiences for one another, and he is grateful to his Council
colleagues for supporting those efforts. In a time of political discord and vitriol, he believes it is
an amazing experience to connect on a human level with brothers and sisters around the world.
Younsu lined the street with banners, and the University of Utah Asia campus held festivities
during their visit. That campus requires its 600 students to spend a semester in Utah, and more
Utahns are visiting that campus as well. They also held an alumni event at the Seoul, South Korea,

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for December 16, 2025       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     6
war memorial that included photographs of Cottonwood Heights and the Sister City events in
Yeonsu.

Council Member Holton proposed renaming the street to show the City's gratitude to Yeonsu for
their hospitality and partnership. A plaque would be placed in the sidewalk honoring that
relationship, and he would donate up to $10,000 to cover the associated expenses. The Historic
Committee added a Korean flag and a memento of the Sister City relationship in their time capsule,
and he hoped they could find other ways to make the relationship more meaningful and encourage
Sister City residents to spend time and money in Cottonwood Heights. The Council then watched
the video that is being played in Y eonsu. Council Member Holton reported that they had placed a
plaque in the street naming it Utah Cottonwood Heights-ro, as well as signs all along the road.

Mayor Weichers stated that he hoped the Council would continue to honor the Sister City
relationship in his absence. They first discussed a potential Sister City at a Budget Retreat several
years ago. When they began to discuss a potential partnership with Yeunsu, it was clear that they
did not want a relationship in name only. They were interested in exchanges, business
collaborations, and enhancing understanding between cultures. The Cottonwood Heights flag is
pennanently flying at their City Hall, and the honorary street is traveled by millions of people. He
hoped that the Council would consider the benefits of the relationship. Yeonsu-Gu is a city of
350,000 people that was willing to partner with a city of 35,000, and he believed more needed to
be done to foster the relationship than just putting a plaque in a sidewalk.

Council Member Holton stated that either the Historic Committee or the Arts Council should be
involved in the design process. Council Member Newell agreed that citizens need to be involved,
and the effort needs to be continuous so the relationship can be elevated.

Council Member Hyland-stated that there had been a call for events at the Town Center, including
a Korean Festival. She agreed with Council Member Newell that the City needs to do this with
residents, not to them. It was challenging to compete with the resources of the larger Sister City,
and she appreciated Council Member Bolton's generous offer. Council Member Holton stated
that he hopes multiple cultural events can be held at the Town Center.

Council Member Birrell remarked that the proposal aligned with the City's Master Plans but
suggested that ginkgo biloba or native Korean trees be planted to beautify a portion of 2300 East.
She believes residents of the area should have a say in the renaming. The City has trouble coming
up with funding for things residents are interested in, such as crosswalks and sidewalks. She was
surprised that $16,000 was allocated from the General Fund to the Sister City program because it
was her understanding that the program would have no associated fiscal responsibilities. She
believes in cultural exchanges, but the Council needs to stay on task.

Council Member Holton stated that $35,000 in donations were received from the community to
kick off the Sister City efforts. He was not requesting City resources for the honorary renaming
as he was personally donating the funds. Although he would love to see Korean trees planted on
the street, that would add cost. He would donate toward that cause, but it is beyond the initial
scope and would impact City resources.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for December 16, 2025      Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     7
Mayor Weichers stated that there was a consensus to move forward with the honorary renaming.
Council Member Holton would make a modified motion on the proposal.

       4.2      General Plan Water Element Discussion -                 Community and Economic
                Development Director, Jim Spung.

Mr. Spung presented the General Plan Water Element. The City received a grant from the Utah
Department of Natural Resources to fund the update in response to Senate Bill 110, which required
cities to amend their general plans to address the effects of permitted development and
development patterns on water demand and infrastructure.

Cottonwood Heights is in the Jordan River basin. The Salt Lake Department of Public Utilities
("SLDPU") controls water distribution in most of the City, and their long-term goal is to reduce
per-capita water use from 179 gallons per capita per day to 146. Mr. Spung reported that SLDPU
had not provided City-specific data, so information on actual usage in Cottonwood Heights is
unavailable. A small portion of the City is serviced by the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy
District.

Cottonwood Heights is p1imarily built out, so most of the City's water conservation efforts will be
through education and promoting efficient water usage. Strategies include:

   •    Indoor and outdoor usage standards through landscape ordinance and development codes.
   •    Education and outreach including rebate programs and workshops.
   •    Partnerships and programs such as Utah Water Savers.
   •    Water-smaii growth strategies.

The City's water use goals are:

        1.      Empower the community through education, outreach, and voluntary water
                conservation.
        2.      Lead by example in water efficiency a11d community stewardship.
        3.      Strengthen collaborative efforts with SLDPU and promote fair water management.
        4.      Integrate water conservation into the land development and redevelopment
                processes.

Mr. Spung reported that the Planning Co1runission reviewed the document at a December 15, 2025,
public hearing and forwarded a unanimous recommendation of approval. State statute requires
that the Water Conservation Element be adopted by December 31 , 2025. However, it can be
revised at any time.

        4.3     Spring Tree Sale Discussion - Community and Economic Development Director,
                JimSpung.

Mr. Spung reported that Cottonwood Heights usually holds an annual spring sapling sale to
celebrate Arbor Day. The City purchases 75 to 100 trees that are then sold to the public, with any


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for December 16, 2025       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     8
leftover trees being planted on City land. He asked if the Council was interested in holding a tree
sale in 2026. Mr. Gerber reported that it is usually a break-even budget item. Council Member
Holton stated that the Parks, Trees, and Open Space Committee had requested a budget allocation
for trees, but they may be able to work with the Public Works Department to utilize the leftover
trees instead.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Newell, Mr. Spung repo1ted that he would
work with Mr. Shipp to determine the specific types of trees that are purchased. Council Member
Newell stated that it is important to ensure that the trees are drought-tolerant.

        4.4     Mine Shaft Road Access Policy - Mayor Weichers.

Mayor Weichers stated that this item did not have the three required votes to move forward. He
and Council Member Birrell were in favor of the proposal, but Council Member Holton, Council
Member Hyland, and Council Member Newell were not.

Mr. Gerber reported that the request was to allow access to the canyon from Mine Shaft Road,
which is closed during traction days. People are allowed to tum west from Mine Shaft Road, but
it is closed to eastbound traffic so traction control stations cannot be bypassed. Staff researched
the matter and dete1mined that it may be a viable option, but the City would need to work with
UDOT regarding access to Big Cottonwood Canyon Road.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Birrell, Chief Russo confirmed that residents
wishing to tum west do not need a sticker to do so.

Council Member Birrell asked her Council colleagues to state their objections, as not allowing
neighborhood residents to travel east on Mine Shaft Road requires them to make a U-tum and sit
in congested traffic for approximately 30 minutes before they can proceed up the canyon.

Council Member Newell stated that policies must be equitable for all, and it is not equitable to
create an advantage for one small group when others would also like to have that benefit. Mayor
Weichers remarked that the City did have inequitable policies in place. For example, there is no
parking in Timberline, but residents are provided with passes allowing them to park on a public
road.

Council Member Hyland stated that the proposal would exclude other residents. People who live
further down Prospector and in other areas of the City would also want to access the canyons from
Mine Shaft Road. Congestion in the canyons is an issue for the entire City, and she could not
support the proposal.

Council Member Holton stated that he discussed the issue with Chief Russo. He did not understand
why residents of some streets would be provided access but not residents of other streets. The
matter could be discussed further, but he was not ready to support the proposal.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for December 16, 2025     Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     9
5.0     REVIEW OF CALENDAR AND UPCOMING EVENTS.

        5.1     Winter Lobby Arts Display - Monday, November 17th to Monday, January
                5th,

        5.2     Lunar New Year Celebration - February 7, 2026, from 10:00 AM to 12:00 PM
                at City Hall.
        5.3     Cozy Paint Night - Friday, February 2, 2026, from 6:00 PM to 8:00 PM at City
                Hall.

6.0     POSSIBLE CLOSED MEETING TO DISCUSS LITIGATION, PURCHASE OR
        LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY, THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
        COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH OF AN INDIVIDUAL,
        OR ANY OTHER PERMITTED PURPOSE FOR CLOSED MEETINGS UNDER
        UTAH CODE ANN. 52-4-205 OR OTHER APPLICABLE LAW.

There was no closed meeting.
                                                      ~




7.0     ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION.

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to ADJOURN the City Council Work Session. The
motion was seconded by Council Member Newell. The motion passed with the unanimous consent
of the Council.

The Work Session adjourned at 5:40 PM.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for December 16, 2025   Approved: _ _ _ __

                                                    10
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT AND RENEWAL AGENCY ("CORA") WORK SESSION HELD
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 16, 2025, AT 7:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
CITY COUNCIL WORK ROOM LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD,
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Present:                Mayor Mike Weichers, Council Member Matt Holton, Council Member
                        Ellen Birrell, Council Member Suzanne Hyland, Council Member Shawn
                        Newell

Staff Present:          City Manager, Jared Gerber; City Attorney, Shane Topham; Police Chief,
                        Robby Russo; Records, Culture, and Human Resources Director, Barbara
                        Higgins; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen; Community and Economic
                        Development Director, Jim Spung; IT Manager, Matt Ervin; Public Works
                        Director and City Engineer, Matt Shipp; Unified Fire Authority, Riley
                        Pilgrim

1.0     WELCOME

Chair Mike Weichers called the CDRA Meeting to order at 5:43 PM.

2.0     ACTION ITEMS

        2.1      Consideration of Resolution 2025-07Approving and Ratifying an "Agreement
                 to Lease" for Realty within the Town Center at 2300 East Fort Union
                 Community Reinvestment Project Area. (By this resolution, the board will
                 approve and ratify the agency's entry into an agreement to lease concerning
                 the agency's approximately 11.5 acres of realty (currently owned or under
                 contract to purchase) within the agency's Town Center at 2300 East Fort
                 Union community reinvestment project area).

City Attorney, Shane Topham, stated that section numbers were missing from some sections of
the ground lease. They would need to be added back in prior to executing the lease.

Council Member Birrell stated that Item 6.9 limits the project to a maximum of two stories or 35
feet. She requested that the CDRA amend or delete that section. She agreed that the majority of
the complex should be two stories high but believes there will be future concerns about making
the project financially viable. The public had been led to believe that approximately one-third of
the acreage would be a dedicated public gathering space, but the current projection was that it
would only be one-fifth of the space. She does not believe that completely encircling the open
space with buildings will create a town center feel, and it should be more open, as was shown in
the illustrations. If one building were three to four stories in height, it could meet the financial
threshold while allowing for more open space.

Mayor Weichers disagreed with Council Member Birrell 's statement about open space, as he did
not remember any discussions in which more than two to two-and-half acres of open space was

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for December 16, 2025     Approved: _ __    _ __

                                                    11
discussed. Council Member Birrell stated that she did recall that discussion and had consulted
with an expert in the area who was of the same opinion.

MOTION: Board Member Birrell moved to TABLE Resolution 2025-07 Approving and
Ratifying an "Agreement to Lease" for Realty within the Town Center at 2300 East Fort Union
Community Reinvestment Project Area. The motion failed for lack of a second.

Council Member Hyland indicated agreement with Council Member Birrell regarding building
height but noted that agreement from three Council members would be required to amend the
agreement.

In response to a question from Council Member Birrell, Mr. Topham stated that the Agreement to
Lease is intended to be a binding document. The lease specifies what the project will look and
feel like, including building height. Once the document is approved, the developer's agreement
will be required to make any changes. Council Member Hyland stated that it may be more difficult
to overturn that requirement in the future, but it was not impossible, and delaying the agreement
would further delay the project. If design elements need to be altered in the future, the CDRA
Board can discuss the matter at that time. Any changes will likely be at the request of the
developer.

MOTION: Board Member Newell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2025-07 Approving and
Ratifying an "Agreement to Lease" for Realty within the Town Center at 2300 East Fort Union
Community Reinvestment Project Area. The motion was seconded by Board Member Holton.
Vote on Motion: Board Member Holton-Yes; Board Member Hyland-Yes; Board MemberNewell-
Yes; Board Member Birrell-No; Chair Weichers-Yes. The motion passed 4-to-1.

Mr. Gerber indicated that a discussion about open space at the Town Center was on the original
agenda but inadvertently omitted from the amended version. He asked for the City Council's input
on their expectations for the planned open space.

Mayor Weichers stated that one drawing that was submitted by the Onyx/Thrive team was of an
amphitheater-style area. They toured Sandy's amphitheater and realized it was on a larger scale
than would be practical for Cottonwood Heights.

Council Member Holton stated that it is important for the space to be flexible, perhaps with a
cement pad with audio-visual and power hookups that could also be used for booths at a Christmas
Market. It was important to ensure that the Council's suggestions would both work in the space
and meet the area demand so that the space is not underutilized.

Chas Johnson of Thrive Development agreed with Council Member Holton. It is important that
the space be designed so that it can adapt and grow with Cottonwood Heights, and they have begun
the process of engaging an architect to inform the discussion and make sure that the ideas are
feasible and functional.

Council Member Hyland suggested a removable stage. One item on the initial list was an ice rink,
but that would not be practical. A senior center was also suggested, but the Cottonwood Heights

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for December 16, 2025   Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                    12
Recreation Center Master Plan contains the goal of including a space that can function as a senior
center during the day and be used for parties and other events in the evening. Arts and culture
programming is imp01iant, and it will be dependent on the flex space. She is pleased that the
Council has coalesced around the idea of flexible plaza space that can be used for different markets
and cultural festivals, as it will keep people engaged in the community and returning to the Town
Center.

Council Member Newell agreed that the space should be flexible to be utilized for fanners'
markets, food tiuck days, and other community events. Council Member Holton agreed but noted
that the space also needs the capability to have a perfonning stage. Council Member Newell
stated that a screen could be erected in the open space to watch the upcoming Olympics or other
events and hold movie nights. Council Member Hyland noted that when the screen was not in use,
it would reflect the mountains. Mayor Weichers stated that they had discussed the possibility of a
removable 30-foot screen.

Mr. Johnson stated that they wanted to ensure that the final product meets the City' s needs both
now and in the future. Things like electrical outlets for pop-up farmers markets are very
inexpensive to install during construction, but difficult to retrofit.

Council Member Birrell remarked that placemaking can be difficult. The City had the opportunity
to ensure that the space can be utilized during the day, in the evening, and at all times of year by
people of all ages. She believes it would be advantageous to solicit input from professionals who
specialize in placemaking. She wants to ensure that it is an area where people want to linger and
has an element of tranquility. The General Obligation Bond specified open areas, not a single area
of open space.

Council Member Hyland suggested that a second meeting should be scheduled on the topic once
the professional is selected. Mr. Johnson agreed as it was a collaborative process, and the more
ideas the Council shared, the better the final product would be. Council Member Holton stated
that Cottonwood Heights was not the first city to create a town center, and they should learn from
other cities' mistakes. He would like to hear more about other cities' successes and failures.

3.0     POSSIBLE CLOSED MEETING TO DISCUSS LITIGATION, PURCHASE OR
        LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY, THE CHARACTERAND PROFESSIONAL
        COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH OF AN INDIVIDUAL,
        OR ANY OTHER PERMITTED PURPOSE FOR CLOSED MEETINGS UNDER
        UTAH CODE ANN. 52-4-205 OR OTHER APPLICABLE LAW

MOTION: Board Member Newell moved to ADJOURN the regular CDRA meeting and move
into a closed meeting to discuss the Purchase or Lease of Real Property. The motion was seconded
by Board Member Holton. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Board.

The CDRA was in Closed Session from 6:15 p.m. to 6:39 p.m.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for December 16, 2025     Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                    13
4.0     APPROVAL OF MINUTES
        The minutes of this meeting will be approved through the following process: The
        Agency's secretary promptly will circulate a draft copy of the minutes to the Board
        members, who then will have three business days to provide any proposed corrections
        to the secretary. The secretary will then circulate a revised draft of the minutes to
        the Board members, and the same review process will continue until such time as no
        corrections to the draft minutes are received within the three business days review
        period, whereupon that draft of the minutes will be deemed approved and will become
        the final minutes of the meeting.

5.0     ADJOURN

MOTION: Board Member Holton moved to ADJOURN the CDRA Meeting. The motion was
seconded by Board Member Newell. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Board.

The CDRA Meeting adjourned at 6:39 p.m.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for December 16, 2025   Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                    14
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
HELD TUESDAY, DECEMBER 16, 2025, AT 7:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD
HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL
BOULEVARD, COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Present:                Mayor Mike Weichers, Council Member Matt Holton, Council Member
                        Ellen Birrell, Council Member Suzanne Hyland, Council Member Shawn
                        Newell

Staff Present:          City Manager, Jared Gerber; City Attorney, Shane Topham; Police Chief,
                        Robby Russo; Records, Culture, and Human Resources Director, Barbara
                        Higgins; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen; Community and Economic
                        Development Director, Jim Spung; IT Manager, Matt Ervin; Public Works
                        Director and City Engineer, Matt Shipp; Unified Fire Authority, Riley
                        Pilgrim

1.0    WELCOME

Mayor Mike Weichers called the City Council Business Meeting to order at 7:00 PM.

2.0    PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE

Chief Russo led the Pledge of Allegiance.

3.0     CITY COUNCIL COMMITTEE REPORTS

        3.1      Committee Report by Council Member Matt Holton.

CounciLMember Holton reported that residents can request tree pickup from the Wasatch Front
Waste and Recycling District at https://wfwrdutah.gov. He spoke with the new director regarding
ways to reduce costs and avoid fee increases, and he encouraged any residents wishing to learn
about the District's offerings to contact him. At the last Council meeting, he spoke about the leaf
bags that were available for pickup. The cost of providing those bags is approximately $34,000,
and they had discussed no longer providing those bags. The subsidized trailer rental program had
been discontinued, but cities are still able to utilize the program for community cleanups. They
may also consider curbside pickups instead of landfill vouchers. They will continue to discuss
ways to provide a high level of service without raising fees.

        3.2      Committee Report by Council Member Suzanne Hyland.

Council Member Hyland reported that the City had purchased short-tenn rental compliance
software that was in the process of being implemented. Their goal is to bring into compliance all
properties that would be allowed under the cmTent short-term rental policy. The process was
presented as a seamless integration, but due to issues with the payment system, implementation
had been delayed by a few months.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for December 16, 2025     Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     15
Council Member Hyland is a member of the CH2 Committee. The Cottonwood Heights
Recreation Center released its Master Plan for rebuilding in November 2025. The infrastructure
is old, and the Master Plan creates improvements to benefit the community and address the aging
infrastructure. A key component is the potential for a community and senior center on the east
end of the newly built recreation center. It will be constructed in two phases. Anyone interested
in seeing what will be included and how they intend to address challenges to review the Master
Plan, which is available on their website.

        3.3     Committee Report by Council Member Shawn Newell.

Council Member Newell had nothing to report.

        3.4     Committee Report by Council Member Ellen Birrell.

Council Member Birrell acknowledged City Staff, including Treasurer and Financial Reporting
Manager, Reid Sanderson, and Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung. She
thanked all civilian City Staff and police officers for their hard work, and Chief Russo for his
tireless efforts. Mayor Weichers devoted himself to ensuring that the Town Center would be
vibrant and representative of what the people of Cottonwood Heights want, and she appreciated
his leadership. She also acknowledged her Council colleagues for their dedication. Council
Member Newell served as Mayor Pro Tempore for the past two years. She had learned that
different Council members often act in that role in other cities and would be willing to take on that
role if the other City Council members agreed.

        3.5     Committee Report by Mayor Mike Weichers.

Mayor Weichers thanked the residents of Cottonwood Heights. After the election, multiple people
he had never met or spoken with called to thank him for his service. Citizens of Cottonwood
Heights have a ve1y caring nature and go out of their way to help others feel better during tough
times. He also thanked and expressed his appreciation for the City Council and Staff.

4.0     CITIZEN COMMENTS

Mayor Weichers opened the Citizen Comment period.

Denise Tinney stated that hers is one of 71 households on Prospector Hill. She asked the Council
to reconsider its position on the Mine Shaft Road access policy. She has lived in her home for 12
years, and they have had trouble since the traction days were implemented. Her husband no longer
wants to go to Big Cottonwood Canyon because he says that it is faster to get to Park City. It is
very hard to get out of her neighborhood, even to go shopping. Traffic is horrendous, and road
rage is an issue. They were requesting that permits be issued to allow right turns up the canyon.
She understands that the police department is doing its best, but not allowing right turns adds 40
minutes to their travel time. She believes common sense should prevail because their area is
unique.



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for December 16, 2025      Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                    16
Gerry Fedr stated that it is not easy to get out of his neighborhood on traction days. The previous
Saturday, he was directed to make a left tum to go through the inspection even though he had an
inspection sticker on his window. It added 25 minutes to his trip. That requirement does not make
sense as they do not have an easier way up the canyon. They cannot take the bus because it is
always full by the time it gets to their parking area, so their only option is to leave the neighborhood
and drive down Fort Union Boulevard or Wasatch Boulevard to another parking area. They are
not asking for the same exclusivity that some other neighborhoods are afforded. He lives one-half
mile from Ferguson Canyon and cannot park on the street, but the people who live there have the
exclusive ability to park there. He cannot park on the street near the Recreation Center on a Sunday
in the smmner, but residents of the area can. He believes they are being punished for where they
live.

Mark Bauer stated that he had been a resident of the area since before Cottonwood Heights was
incorporated. He purchased a home on East Prospector Drive because he loves the area and likes
to ski. He appreciates and supports traction days and has had a sticker since the program started.
He believes that allowing residents to access the canyon via Mine Shaft Road is cmmnon sense.
There are 71 homes on the hill, and only between five and 20 people would go up the canyon on
traction days. It could be easily implemented by requiring a sticker and driver's license address
verification. He believes it is a matter of common sense, not exclusivity. A right-hand turn would
be much safer than trying to make a left to go west, finding a U-tum area, and turning around in
traffic. The intersection of Prospector Drive and Wasatch Boulevard is scary and in the opposite
direction. He asked that the City Council revisit the issue and come up with a solution.

Leslie Kovach stated that she and her neighbors were talking about safety. They need access to
make a right tum up the canyon. It is very difficult to get out of her neighborhood on ski days.
She would like to support Brighton and Solitude on weekends, but she cannot. It takes 20 to 30
minutes just to get out of the neighborhood. She asked that the City Council reconsider allowing
the 70 affected homes to make right turns on Mine Shaft Road. They may think that it is an
exclusive privilege, but they have not lived through a ski weekend.

There were no further comments. The Citizen Comment period was closed.

5.0     REPORTS

        5.1     Financial Statements Presentation - Finance Director, Scott Jurges.

Mr. Jurges presented the annual Financial Report for the year ending June 30, 2025, and reported
that it would be posted on the City website in approximately one week.

Larson and Company CPA audited the City's financial statements and reported that it was a clean
audit, meaning they found no discrepancies or material misstatements. The report includes
information on what was reviewed and the standards that were used.

Mr. Jurges reported that the actual financing statements begin with the Statement of Net Position
on page 28 of the report. The City's total net position is approximately $66 million, which includes
capital assets (roads, bridges, parks, buildings, etc.) of $52 million. Governmental fund balance

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for December 16, 2025        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                    17
sheets begin on page 30 and break down the City's assets, liabilities, defe1Ted inflows, and
designations. Approximately $5.1 million is available for appropriation, of which 6% must be
kept in reserve, for an actual total of approximately $3.2 million as of July 1, 2025. The next report
is an income statement that outlines revenues and expenditures. Mr. Jurges finds those two reports
to be most helpful in understanding the City budget, whereas the full accrual reports are only
helpful for comparison.

Page 66 of the report shows the adopted and final budgets for the General Fund, changes that were
made throughout the year, actuals, and the variance between the final budget and actuals. Page 72
provides the same infonnation for the CDRA Fund, followed by other individual funds.

Statistics begin on Page 78 of the document and include 18 historical charts comparing various
elements like taxable values over the past 10 years.

Supplemental reports begin on page 105. Financial reports on the previous pages are governed by
the Government Accounting Standards Board ("GASB"). Supplemental reports are provided to
comply with State and other regulatory requirements. There were no significant material findings
or issues, but two findings were reported:

1.      Cash management: The Utah Money Management Act requires municipalities to make
        deposits within three business days of receipt of funds. Cottonwood Heights does not
        receive much cash, and as a result, deposits were being made once per week. The result,
        which was less than $100, was not deposited on time. The report includes the auditor's
        recommendations and the City's comments. Deposits are now made twice per week to
        ensure compliance.

2.      Late invoices: The City Council had been made aware of fire hydrant maintenance invoices
        that were disputed by the City. The invoices were received late, and the amount was much
        higher than expected. Efforts to have the amount reduced were unsuccessful, and as a
        result, the Public Works budget was exceeded.

Mr. Jurges stated that he was pleased with the report and found it to be a good representation of
Cottonwood Heights' financial health.

Council Member Newell thanked Mr. Jurges and his staff for their hard work. It is helpful to see
where money is being spent and how some areas may be improved.

In response to a question from Council Member Holton, Mr. Jurges stated that two invoices were
received, each for approximately $130,000, and the City had only budgeted for one $35,000
invoice. Approximately $125,000 was added to the current-year budget to cover the difference,
and Staff believes that amount is adequate.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for December 16, 2025       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                    18
6.0     ACTION ITEMS

        6.1     Consideration of Ordinance 455 Adopting a Supplemental Name for a Street
                Segment. (This Ordinance will Adopt the supplemental name of "lncheon
                Yeonsu Road" for 2300 East Street from Fort Union Boulevard to Bengal
                Boulevard to Honor the City's "sister city" relationship with the Yeonsu-go
                District in Incheon, South Korea).

Mayor Weichers reported that the above item was discussed during the Work Session.

MOTION: Council Member Holton moved to APPROVE Ordinance 455 Adopting a
Supplemental Name for a Street Segment, as amended to indicate that donations will cover all
costs and Council Member Holton will work with resident committee members to design a plaque
honoring Yeonsu-go. The motion was seconded by Council Member Hyland.

Council Member Birrell asked if the Council was voting on the honorary naming or on creating a
commemorative plaque. Council Member Holton stated that the plaque would be created in
collaboration with and approved by a citizen committee. Council Member BiITell stated that there
is a distinction between creating a plaque and renaming a street. Council Member Holton stated
that it is an honorary plaque honoring the Sister City relationship. Council Member Birrell stated
that she could not suppmi it if it was not publicly vetted. Council Member Hyland stated that she
also did not believe the street was being ceremonia11y renamed.

In response to a question raised by Mr. Gerber, Mr. Topham clarified that an ordinance would not
be required if the honorary renaming had been withdrawn. A plaque celebrating the relationship
could be approved by a voice vote because the City Council previously recognized the Sister City
relationship.

MOTION: Council Member Holton moved to TABLE Ordinance 455 Adopting a Supplemental
Name for a Street Segment, and conduct a voice vote in support of a plaque recognizing the
partnership with Y eonsu-gu that is supported by donations and created in collaboration with the
City Manager and a citizen committee. The motion was seconded by Council Member Hyland.
The motion passed unanimously.

        6.2     Consideration of Ordinance 456 Amending the General Plan to Include a
                Water Use and Preservation Element. (This Ordinance will amend the City's
                General Plan to include a Water Use and Preservation Element that complies
                with UTAH CODE ANN. 10-20-404, as required by UTAH CODE ANN. 10-20-
                401(4h

Mayor Weichers reported that the above item was discussed dming the Work Session.

MOTION: Council Member Newell moved to APPROVE Ordinance 456 Amending the General
Plan to Include a Water Use and Preservation Element. The motion was seconded by Council
Member Birrell. Vote on Motion: Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Birrell-Yes;


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for December 16, 2025    Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                    19
Council Member Holton-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Mayor Weichers-Yes. The motion
passed unanimously.

        6.3     Consideration of Ordinance 457 Adopting an Exception to Controlled Access
                to Big Cottonwood Canyon Road at Mine Shaft Road. (This Ordinance will
                adopt an exception under UTAH CODE ANN. 41-6a-715(5) to the controlled
                access to Big Cottonwood Canyon Road at Mine Shaft Road on "traction control"
                {snow/ days).

Mayor Weichers reported that the above item was discussed during the Work Session.

MOTION: Council Member Birrell moved to APPROVE Ordinance 457 Adopting an Exception
to Controlled Access to Big Cottonwood Canyon Road at Mine Shaft Road. The motion was
seconded by Mayor Weichers. Vote on Motion: Council Member Birrell-Yes; Council Member
Holton-No; Council Member Hyland-No; Council Member Newell-No; Mayor Weichers-Yes.
The motion failed by a vote of 3-to-2.

        6.4     Consideration of Resolution 2025-75 Approving an Amendment to a
                Development Agreement. (By this Resolution, the Council will approve an
                Amendment to an existing Development Agreement with Land Development,
                LLC concerning real property located at 3526 East Fort Union Boulevard. The
                purpose o(the Amendment is to revise the Approved Conceptual Site Plan to re-
                configure the access driveway to provide direct access to Fort Union Boulevard
                and to make corresponding changes to the verbiage in the approved Development
                Agreemeht).

Mayor Weichers reported that the above item was discussed during the Work Session.

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to APPROVE Resolution 2025-75 Approving an
Amendment to a Development Agreement. The motion was seconded by Council Member Holton.
Vote on· Motion: Council Member Holton-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member
Newell-Yes; Council Member Birrell-Yes; Mayor Weichers-Yes.        The motion passed
unanimously.

        6.5     Consideration of Resolution 2025-76 Declaring Certain Property Surplus. (By
                this Resolution, the Council will Declare Surplus and designate the method of
                disposition of certain personal property owned by the City).

Mayor Weichers reported that the above item was discussed during the Work Session.

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to APPROVE Resolution 2025-76 Declaring Certain
Property Surplus. The motion was seconded by Council Member Newell. Vote on Motion:
Council Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Birrell-Yes;
Council Member Holton-Yes; Mayor Weichers-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for December 16, 2025   Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                    20
        6.6     Consideration of Resolution 2025-77 Approving Appointments to the Health
                in the Heights Advisory Committee. (This Resolution will Approve various
                appointments and re-appointments to the City's Health in the Heights Advisory
                Committee as recommended by the City Manager).

Mayor Weichers reported that the above item was discussed during the Work Session.

Council Member Birrell stated that she would appreciate it if the information regarding committee
appointments included the appointee's district. The other Council Members agreed.

MOTION: Council Member Birrell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2025-77 Approving
Appointments to the Health in the Heights Advisory Committee. The motion was seconded by
Council Member Hyland. Vote on Motion: Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member
Birrell-Yes; Council Member Holton-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Mayor Weichers-Yes.
The motion passed unanimously.

        6.7     Consideration of Resolution 2025-78 Approving an Amendment to an
                Interlocal Agreement with Salt Lake County for TRCC Funding. (This
                Resolution will Approve the City's entry into an Amendment to an existing
                Interlocal Agreement with Salt Lake County for TRCC funding of the
                improvements for Phase 3 ofthe City's Highland Drive Pedestrian Trail Proiect).

Mayor Weichers reported that the above item was discussed during the Work Session.

MOTION: Council Member Holton moved to APPROVE Resolution 2025-78 Approving an
Amendment to an Interlocal Agreement with Salt Lake County for TRCC Funding. The motion
was seconded by Council Member Newell.

Council Member Birrell stated that she is opposed to further funding the Highland Drive Phase 3
project.

Vote on Motion: Council Member Holton-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member
Newell-Yes; Council Member Birrell-No; Mayor Weichers-Yes. The motion passed by a vote of
4-to-1.

        6.8     Consideration of Resolution 2025-79 Awarding a Retiring Police Officer His
                Badge and Approving His Purchase of a Police Firearm. (Sgt. Ken Dailey is
                retiring from CHPD after 39 years of public service, including 14 with CHPD.
                As is customary and as authorized by City Code, by this Resolution the Council
                will Award Sgt. Dailey his badge and approve his purchase ofhis sidearm).

Mayor Weichers reported that the above item was discussed dming the Work Session.             He
extended the Council's gratitude to Sergeant Ken Dailey for his service.

MOTION: Council Member Birrell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2025-79 Awarding a
Retiring Police Officer His Badge and Approving His Purchase of a Police Firearm. The motion

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for December 16, 2025   Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                    21
was seconded by Council Member Newell. Vote on Motion: Council Member Hyland-Yes;
Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member BiITell-Yes; Council Member Holton-Yes; Mayor
Weichers-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

7.0     CONSENT CALENDAR

        7.1     Approval of the Minutes for the City Council/Planning Commission Joint
                Work Session of December 2, 2025.

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to APPROVE the Consent Calendar. The motion
was seconded by Council Member Holton. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the
Council.

8.0     ADJOURN

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to ADJOURN. The motion was seconded by Council
Member Holton. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.

The City Council Business Meeting adjourned at 7:56 p.m.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for December 16, 2025   Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     22
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the
Cottonwood Heights City Council Work Session, CDRA Meeting, and City Council Business
Meetings held on Tuesday, December 16, 2025.


Tevt Fovbe.s
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: _______ __ _




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for December 16, 2025   Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                    23
                     Cottonwood Heights
                     C11y bnuvm rlu r,111)0111




                    Appendix 3

                 STAFF REPORT

Big Cottonwood Canyon EA Response Letter Discussion

                   Jared Gerber
Meeting Requested:            Business Meeting D     Work Session ~    Other D
Public Hearing Needed?        Yes D No ~ Undetermined D
                              Denied D Approved IZl CoJ;ltinued D
CM Approval or Denial
                              CM Signature:--~         ~

Jared Gerber will lead a discussion on the Big Cottonwood Canyon EA Response Letter.
      Cottonwood Heights
      C,ry b,111v-m ti,, r,mJOIII




     Appendix 4

  STAFF REPORT
Telecom Tax Discussion

     Jared Gerber
Meeting Requested :            Business Meeting D     Wo rk Session IXI   Other D
Public Hearing Needed?        Yes □ No IZl Undetermined D
                               Denied D    Approved IZl CoJ:ltinued D
CM Approval or Denial
                               CM Signature:--~

Jared Gerber will lead a discussion on Telecom Tax.
         Cottonwood Heights
         C11y !Hm't'm the r,111yom




        Appendix 5

     STAFF REPORT
Flash Vote Survey Discussion

        Jared Gerber
Meeting Requested:              Business Meeting D      Work Session IZI   Other D
Public Hearing Needed?         Yes D No IZI Undetermined D
                                Denied D Approved IZI CoJ;lt inued D
CM Approval or Denial
                                CM Signature: - -~..LL---,

Jared Gerber w ill lead a discussion on Flash Vote Survey.
Meeting Requested:               Business Meeting D       Work Session IZl   Other D
Public Hearing Needed?           Yes D No IZl Undetermined D
                                 Denied D Approved ~ Con inued D
CM Approval or Denial
                                 CM Signature: - -~  ..LJ__
Jared Gerber wi ll lead a discussion on Legislative Priorities.
    ottonwood Heights
  City bit UV'(rt th( ( , IIIJOIIJ




  Appendix 7

STAFF REPORT
 Action Items
 Shane Topham
Tiffan Janzen

From:                    Shane Topham <WST@tophamlegal.com>
Sent:                    Wednesday, December 31, 2025 10:50 AM
To:                      Jared Gerber; Tiffany Janzen
Subject:                 [EXT:]Legislation for January 6, 2026 City Council Business Meeting
Attachments:             WST-Cottonwood Heights-Ordinance 458 Adopting Annual Meeting Schedule for 2026.pdf; WST-Cottonwood
                         Heights-Ordinance 459 Imposing a Telecommunications Tax (12.29.31 ).pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Ordinance 460
                         Granting Telecommunications Franchise to All West Fiber (12.29.25).pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Ordinance 461
                         Amending Code Section 2.10.050.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolut ion 2026-01 Ratifying Election of Mayor Pro
                         Tempore.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2026-02 Approving Right of Access Agreement with Rocky
                         Mountain Power (Public Art Project).pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Rocky Mountain Power Access Agreement (Art
                         Project) (CLEAN 12.29.25).pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2026-03 Approving an Amendment to
                         Development Agreement (Cottonwood Canyon Cove Subdivision).pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Cottonwood
                         Canyon Cove Subdivision-Amendment to Development Agreement (City's 12.31.25).pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-
                         Cottonwood Canyon Cove-Revised Park Plan (09.19.25).pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2026-04
                         Approving lnterlocal with Sandy for Joint Crosswa lk Study.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-I LA with Sandy re Creek
                         Road Traffic Study (CH CLEAN 12.3.25).pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2026-05 Approving Aerial Imagery
                         ILA with SLCo.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Aerial Imagery lnterlocal Agreement with SLCo (12.29.25).pdf; WST-
                         Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2026-06 Approving Arts Council Appointment.pdf



Greetings-

Drafts of the following items of legislation scheduled for consideration at the city council's January 6th
business meeting are attached for your review and comment:

    1. Ordinance 458. This ordinance will adopt a schedule for regular meetings of the city's city council,
       planning commission and other public bodies for calendar year 2026, as required by Utah Code
       Ann . 52-4-202.
    2. Ordinance 459. This ordinance will (a) impose a 3.5% municipal telecommunications license tax
       on a telecommunications provider's gross receipts from telecommunications services that are
       attributed to the city of Cottonwood Heights as provided in the Municipal Telecommunications
       License Tax Act, Utah Code Ann . 10-1-401 et seq., and (b) enact new Chapter 3.12 of the city's
       code of ordinances concerning such license tax. A copy of proposed Chapter 3.12 also is
       attached.
    3. Ordinance 460. This ordinance will grant a non-exclusive franchise allowing All West/ Utah, Inc.
       d/b/a All West Fiber to install and operate a fiber-optic cable telecommunications system in the
       city's public right-of-way.
    4. Ordinance 461. This ordinance will amend Section 2.10.050 of the city's code of ordinances to
       change the fidelity bonding requirement for certain city officers as formerly specified in state law
       to instead require crime insurance coverage as provided in H.B. 64 enacted by the Utah
       Legislature in its 2025 general session.
    5. Resolution 2026-01. Section 2.30.040 of the city's code of ordinances provides that the council at
       its first regular meeting in January of even-numbered years shall by secret ballot elect a mayor pro
       tempo re to perform certain limited functions of the mayor during times when the mayor is unable
       or unwilling to act. This resolution will ratify such election of a mayor pro tempo re for January
       2026 until a successor is elected, likely in January 2028. The name of the new mayor pro tempore
       will be filled into the blanks once the recorder announces the results of the secret ballot.
    6. Resolution 2026-02. By this resolution, the council will approve the city's entry into an agreement
       whereunder Rocky Mountain Power will authorize the city to continue implementation of a
       community art pilot program allowing local artists to decorate certain of RM P's pad-mounted
       electric transmission and distribution equipment in the city's public places. A copy of the license
                                                               1
       agreement also is attached, although at this writing any final comments from RMP haven't been
       received. I'll provide notice before the January 6 th meeting if material changes are requested by
       RMP to the attached version.
   7. Resolution 2026-03. This resolution will approve an amendment to the development agreement
       for the Cottonwood Canyon Cove Subdivision that was approved under Resolution 2023-24. The
       purpose of the amendment is to modify the Exhibit D "Final Park Plan" of the development
       agreement. A copy of the amended Exhibit D also is attached.
   8. Resolution 2026-04. This resolution will approve the city's entry into an interlocal agreement with
       Sandy City concerning a joint crosswalk study on Creek Road between Union Park Avenue and
       3500 East. A copy of the proposed interlocal agreement also is attached.
   9. Resolution 2026-05. By this resolution, the council will approve the city's entry into an interlocal
       cooperation agreement where under Salt Lake County will provide certain aerial imagery for use by
       various city departments. A copy of the proposed interlocal agreement also is attached .
   10. Resolution 2026-06. This resolution will approve and ratify the manager's appointment of Lucas
       Manning to the city's arts council.

Please contact me as soon as possible if there are any questions or concerns regarding the attachments.

Best regards-

Shane

WM . SHANE TOPHAM I Attorney I TOPHAM LEGAL
4930 Fairview Drive, Holladay, UT 84117
tel+801.808.6325 I Bio

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: The content of this e-mail is confidential and proprietary and may be att orney-client
privileged. If you are not the intended recipient, please destroy it and notify: wst @topham legal.com .



EXTERNAL ATTACHMENT: Only Open if you trust this sender.




                                                        2
                          Cottonwood Heights
                          City bm,«m the r,lll)YJIII




          CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING

                        Attachment 1
                        Ordinance 458
This ordinance will adopt a schedule for regular meetings of the
city's city council, planning commission and other public bodies
  for calendar year 2026, as required by Utah Code Ann. 52-4-
                               202.
                                COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                     ORDINANCE NO. 458

    AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING A SCHEDULE FOR REGULAR MEETINGS OF THE
     CITY COUNCIL, THE PLANNING COMMISSION, THE ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW
           COMMISSION, AND CERTAIN ADVISORY COMMITTEES FOR 2026


         WHEREAS, UTAH CODE ANN. §52-4-202 provides that any public body which holds
regular meetings that are scheduled in advance over the course of a year shall give public notice
at least once each year of its amrnal meeting schedule; and

        WHEREAS, UrAH CODE ANN. § l 0-3-502 provides that the governing body of a city shall,
by ordinance, prescribe the time and place for holding its regular meetings, which shall be held at
least once each month; and

        WHEREAS, the city council (the "Council") of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the
"City") desires to establish a regular meeting schedule for 2026 for the Council, as required by
statute; and

        WHEREAS, the Council also desires to establish regular meeting schedules for 2026 for
the City' s Planning Commission, its Architectural Review Commission, its Parks, Trails and Open
Space Committee, its Arts Cotmcil, its Historic Committee, its "Health in the Heights Committee"
public health coalition, and for land use appeals hearings;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

       Section l .     Regular Meetiug Schedule for 2026. For 2026, regular meetings of the
City's Council, its Planning Cmmnission, its Architectural Review Commission, its Parks, Trails
and Open Space Committee, its Arts Council, its Historic Committee, its Health in the Heights
Committee, and its land use appeals hearing officer shall be held as follows:

               (a)    Council. The Cmmcil 's meetings will occur on the first and third Tuesdays
of each calendar month. Catmcil work sessions will begin at 4:00 p.m., will adjourn for a Council
business meeting beginning at 7:00 p.m., and then will re-convene (if necessary to complete the
agenda items) following the business meeting. All business meetings of the Council will occur in
the council chambers (the "Council Chambers") of the City's city hall ("City Hall") at 2277 East
Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, Utah, and all work sessions of the Cmmcil will occur in the
council work room (the "Council Work Room") of City Hall.

              (b)    Planning Commission. The Planning Commission's business meetings will
occur in the Council Chambers on the first Wednesday of each calendar month and also on the
third Wednesday of January, April, July and October, beginning at 6:00 p.m. The Planning
Commission's work meetings will occur in the Council Work Room immediately prior to its
business meetings, commencing at 5:00 p.m.
               (c)     Architectural Review Commission. The Architectural Review
Commission' s business meetings will occur as needed on the fourth Thursday of January-October,
inclusive, and on the third Thursday of November and December, as needed. Each meeting shall
begin at 4:00 p.m. in the Council Work Room.

              (d)   Parks, Trails and Open Space Committee. The Parks, Trails and Open
Space Committee' s meetings will occur in the Council Work Room on the fourth Wednesday of
January-June and August-October, inclusive, on the fifth Wednesday of July, and on the third
Thursday of November-December, inclusive, commencing at 6:00 p.m.

              (e)    Arts Council. The Arts Council' s meetings will occur in the planning
conference room of City Hall on the first Wednesday of each month, commencing at 6:00 p.m.
The Arts Cmmcil will not meet in the month of December.

              (f)    Historic Committee. The Historic Committee's meetings will occur in the
administrative conference room of City Hall on the second Wednesday of each month,
commencing at 5:30 p.m. The Historic Committee will not meet in the month of December.

             (g)    Health in the Heights Committee. The Health in the Heights Committee's
meetings will occur in the Council Work Room on the second Monday of each month,
commencing at 4:00 p.m. The Health in the Heights Committee will not meet in the month of
December.

             (h)   Land Use Appeals Hearings. Land use appeals hearings will occur in the
Council Work Room on the second Wednesday of each month, commencing at 10:00 a.m.

        Section 2.    Reservations of Rights to Modifv Meeting Schedules, Hold Electronic
Meetings, Etc. Each of the Council, the Planning Commission, the Architectural Review
Commission, the Parks, Trails and Open Space Committee, the Arts Council, the Historic
Committee, the Health in the Heights Committee, its land use appeals hearing officer, and the
City's other public bodies has and reserves the right to change the time, date and/or location of
any of its meetings upon at least 24 hours' prior public notice, or to cancel any of such meetings
or to hold special meetings as circumstances may warrant.

        Section 3.     Action of Offlcers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance, whether taken before or
after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confim1ed and approved.

        Section 4.     Severability. All parts of this ordinance (this "Ordinance") are severable,
and if any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason, be held
to be invalid or tmenforceable, the invalidity or tmenforceability of any such section, paragraph,
clause or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or provisions of
this Ordinance.

         Section 5.     Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

                                                 2
        Section 6.       Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 458, shall take inunediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City 's recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 6th day of January 2026.


ATTEST:                                      COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By:------------                              By:
 Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                           Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                             VOTING:

                                             Gay Lynn Bennion              Yea_Nay _
                                             Matt Holton                   Yea_Nay _
                                             Suzanne Hyland                Yea _ Nay_
                                             Shawn E. Newell               Yea_Nay _
                                             Ellen Birrell                 Yea_Nay _

       DEPOSITED in the Recorder' s office this 6th day of January 2026.

       POSTED this _ day of January 2026.




                                                3
                          Cottonwood Heights
                          C,ry btrwun rlu (dll)YJIU




                        Attachment 2
                       Ordinance 459
          This ordinance will impose a 3.5% municipal
   telecommunications license tax on a telecommunications
provider's gross receipts from telecommunications services that
are attributed to the city of Cottonwood Heights as provided in
 the Municipal Telecommunications License Tax Act, UTAH
 CODE ANN. 10-1-401 et seq., and enact new Chapter 3.12 of
   the city's code of ordinances concerning such license tax.
Meeting Requested:               Business Meeting ~      Work Session ~       Other D
Public Hearing Needed?           Yes D No D Undetermined ~
                                 Denied □     Approved D Continued □
CM Approval or Denial
                                 CM Signature:


Summary:
The following summarizes information and facts regarding the Telecom Franchise Tax.
   1. The Telecommunications Franchise Tax is authorized pursuant to Utah Code 10-1 Part 4.
   2. Highlights of the Telecom Franchise Tax:
         •   This franchise tax was first authorized to be collected beginning July 1, 2004.
         •   The current maximum rate is 3.5% (starting July 1, 2007).
         •   Within Salt Lake County the only cities not currently charging the tax is Cottonwood Heights.
         •   Within the State there are over 150 cities who currently charge the Telecom Franchise Tax.
         •   Currently it is not authorized for an Unincorporated area to charge the tax.
         •   All cities charging the tax in Salt Lake County are at the 3.5% rate.
         •  Annual collection amounts are reducing like other franchise tax collections (like Cable TV).
               o Our current estimate of annual collections is approximately $120,000 - $150,000.
    3.   Implementing a Telecom Franchise Tax:
         •   The city must adopt an ordinance (outlined in 10-1-403(1)) that outlines:
                 o The tax rate (not to exceed 3.5%).
                 o   The effective date of the ordinance which must be the first day of a ca lendar quarter (January 1,
                     April 1, July 1, October 1) (outlined in 10-1-403).
         •   Enter into a uniform interlocal agreement with the State Tax Commission (outlined in 10-1-405).
         •   All this (City Code, Uniform lnterlocal Agreement) must be submitted to the State Tax Commission at least
             90 days prior to the beginning of the ta x collection start date.
         •   The State Tax Commission charges a collection fee of up to 1.5% of the fee collected. This rate is currently
             0.65% of the fee collected.
    4. An example of the impact on a single line of mobile phone service would be :
         •   Example single line of service with phone and data of $40 per month.
         •   Of the $40 half is for data and half for telephone.
         •   The tax of 3.5% applied to $20 per month would be approximately $0.70 and annual would be
             approximately $8.40.

City staff will present this information and be available to answer questions.
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                      ORDINANCE NO . 459
                                AN ORDINANCE IMPOSING A
                            TELECOMMUNICATIONS LICENSE TAX

        WHEREAS, under the Municipal Telecommunications License Tax Act, UTAH CODE
ANN. §10- 1-401 et seq. (the "Act"), the city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City") may impose a
municipal telecommunications license fee ofup to 3.5% of the telecommunication provider's gross
receipts from telecommunications service that is attributed to the City under the Act; and

        WHEREAS, the City's municipal council (the "Councif') met in regular meeting on 6
January 2026 to consider, among other things, the adoption of up to a 3.5% telecommunications
license tax; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interest of the health, safety and welfare of the City's residents to adopt up to a 3.5%
telecommunications license tax as authorized by the Act and to amend the City's code of
ordinances (the "Code") to include new Chapter 3.12 ("Chapter 3. 12") concerning su,ch tax;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

        Section i.    Adoption of 3.5% Teleco111111u11icatio11s Lice11se Tax. The Council hereby
adopts a 3.5% telecommuni,cations license tax for the City as specified in attached Chapter 3.12,
as currently provided or subsequently amended in compliance with the Act.

        Section 2.      Ame1.1tlment of Title 3 to Inchule New Chapter 3.12. The Council hereby
enacts new Chapter 3.12 and amends Title 3 of the Code to include new Chapter 3. l 2 as shown on
the exhibit to this ordinance (this "Ordinance").

        Section 3.     Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance, whether taken before or
after the adoption hereof;, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

       Section 4.       Severability. It is hereby declared that all parts of this Ordinance are
severable, and if any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason,
be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section,
paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or
provisions of this Ordinance.

         Section 5.     Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

        Section 6.      Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 459, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City's recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.
     PASSED AND APPROVED this 6th day of January 2026.


ATTEST:                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


B y : - - - - - - - - - - --            By:-- - - - - - - - - - --         ---
  Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                        VOTING:

                                        Gay Lynn Bennion            Yea_Nay_
                                        Matt Holton                 Yea_Nay _
                                        Suzanne Hyland              Yea _ Nay_
                                        Shawn E. Newell             Yea_Nay_
                                        Ellen Birrell               Yea_Nay_

     DEPOSITED in the Recorder's office this 6th day of January 2026.

     POSTED this _     day of January 2026.
                                         Chapter 3.12

                        TELECOMMUNICATIONS LICENSE TAX

Sections:
3.12.010 Title.
3.12.020 Purpose.
3.12.030 Definitions.
3.12.040 Levy of telecommunications license tax.
3.12.050 Rate.
3.12.060 Rate limitation and exemption.
3.12.070 Effective date of tax levy.
3.12.080 Changes in rate or repeal of the tax.
3.12.090 Interlocal agreement for collection of the tax.
3.12.100 Procedures for taxes erroneously recovered from customers.
3.12.110 Survival of right-of-way fees.

3.12.010 Title.
   This chapter shall be known as the "Cottonwood Heights Telecommunications License Tax
Ordinance."

3.12.020 Purpose.
    The Municipal Telecommunications License Tax Act, UTAH CODE ANN. 10-1-401 et seq. (the
"State Act"), authorizes Utah municipalities to adopt an ordinance that imposes up to a 3.5%
teleconununications license tax. The purpose of this chapter is to conform the Cottonwood Heights
Telecommunications License Tax Ordinance to the requirements of the State Act. The State Act
is incorporated into this chapter by reference, and in the event of any conflict or inconsistency
between this chapter and the State Act, the State Act shall control.

3.08.030        Definitions.
    In this chapter:
    A. "City" means Cottonwood Heights, Utah.
    B. "Commissfon" means the Utah State Tax Commission.
    C. "Customer" means:
    1. Subject to subsection (C)(3), the person who is obligated under a contract with a
telecommunications provider to pay for telecommunications service received under the contract,
or
    2. If the end user is not the person described in subsection (C)(l), the end user of
telecommunications service, but
    3. " Customer" does not include a reseller:
    (a) Of telecommunications service; or
    (b) For mobile telecommunications service, of a serving carrier under an agreement to serve
the customer outside the teleconununications provider' s licensed service area.
    D. "End user."
    I. "End user" means the person who uses a telecommunications service.
    2. For purposes of telecommtmications service provided to a person who is not an individual,
"end user" means the individual who uses the teleconununications service on behalf of the person
who is provided the telecommunications service.
    E. "Gross receipts attributed to the city" means those gross receipts from a transaction for
telecommunications service that is located within the city for the purposes of sales and use taxes
under UTAH CODE ANN. Title 59, chapter 12, Sales and Use Tax Act and determined in accordance
with UTAHCODEANN. §59-12-215.
    F. "Gross receipts from telecommunications sen1ice."
     I. "Gross receipts from telecommunications service" means the revenue that a
telecommunications provider receives for telecommunications service rendered except for amount
collected or paid as:
    (a) A tax, fee, or charge:
     (i) Imposed by a governmental entity;
    (ii) Separately identified as a tax, fee, or charge in the transaction with the customer for the
telecommunications service; and
     (iii)Imposed only on a telecommm1ications provider;
     (b) Sales and use taxes collected by the telecommunications provider from a customer under
UTAH CODE ANN. Title 59, chapter 12, Sales and Use Tax Act; or
     (c) Interest, a fee, or a charge that is charged by a telecommunications provider on a customer
for failure to pay for telecommunications service when payment is due.
    2. "Gross receipts from telecommunications services" also shall include:
     (a) Gross receipts from non-telecommunication services within the meaning of, and to the
extent authorized by, UTAH CODE ANN. §10-1-410; and
     (b) A charge necessary to complete a sale of a telecommunications service.
     G. "Mobile telecommunications service" is as defined in the Mobile Telecommunications
Sourcing Act, 4 U.S.C. §124.
     H. "Place ofprimary use" means:
     1. For telecommunications service other than mobile telecommunications service, means the
street address representative of where the customer's use of the telecommunications service
primarily occurs, which shall be:
     (a) The residential street address of the customer; or
     (b) The primary business street address of the customer; or
     2. For mobile teleconununications service, is as defined in the Mobile Telecommunications
Sourcing Act, 4 U.S.C. § 124.
     I. "Service address." Notwithstanding where a call is billed or paid, "service address" means:
     1. If the location described in this subsection I( 1) is known, the location of the
telec01mnunications equipment:
     (a) To which a call is charged; and
     (b) From which the call 01iginates or tenninates;
     2. If the location described in subsection I( 1) is not known by the location described in this
subsection 1(2) is known, the location of the origination point of the signal of the
telecommunications service first identified by:
     (a) The telecommunications system of the telecommunications provider; or
     (b) If the system used to transport the signal is not a system of the telecommunications
provider, infonnation received by the telecommunications provider from its service provider; or
     3. If the locations described in subsection 1(1) or 1(2) are not known, the location of a
customer's place of primary use.
   J. "Telecommunications provider."
    1. Subject to subsections J(2) and J(3), "telecommunications provider" means a person that:
     (a) Owns, controls, operates, or manages a telecommunications service; or
     (b) Engages in an activity described in subsection J(l)(a) for the shared use with or resale to
any person of the telecommunications service.
    2. A person described in subsection J( 1) is a telecommunications provider whether or not the
Public Service Commission of Utah regulates:
    (a) That person; or
    (b) The teleconununications service that the person owns, controls, operates, or manages.
    3. "Telecommunications provider" does not include an aggregator as defined in UTAH CODE
ANN. §54-8b-2.
    K. "Telecommunications service" means:
    1. Telecommunications service, as defined in UTAH CODE ANN. §59-12-102, other than
mobile telecommunications service, that originates and terminates within the boundaries of this
state; and
    2. Mobile telecommunications service, as defined in UTAH CODE ANN. §59-12-102:
    (a) That originates and terminates within the boundaries of one state; and
    (b) Only to the extent permitted by the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act, 4 U.S.C.
§116, et seq. or
    (c) An ancillary service as defined in UTAH CODE ANN. §59-12-102.

3.12.040 Levy of telecommunications license tax.
    There is hereby levied a municipal telecommunications license tax on the gross receipts from
telecommunications service attributed to the city.

3.12.050 Rate.
    A. The rate of the tax levy shall be three and one-half percent (3 .5%) of the teleconununication
provider's gross receipts attributed to the city subject to subsection B of this section.
    B. If the location of a transaction is detennined to be other than the city, then the rate imposed
on the gross receipts for telecommunications service shall be determined pursuant to the provisions
of UTAH CODE ANN. §10-1-407.

3.12.060 Rate limitation and exemption.
    The rate of this levy shall not exceed the rate established in section 3.12.050 of this chapter of
the telecommunication provider's gross receipts attributed to the city unless a higher rate is
approved by a majority vote of the voters in the city that vote in:
    A. A municipal general election; or
    B. A regular general election.

3.12.070 Effective date of tax levy.
    This tax shall be levied beginning July 1, 2026 or such later date as may be required by Utah
statute.

3.12.080 Changes in rate or repeal of the tax.
    This tax is subject to change or repeal as provided in the State Act. If the tax rate is changed
or the tax is repealed, then the appropriate notice shall be given as provided in UTAH CODE ANN.
§ 10-1-403.

3.12.090 Interlocal agreement for collection of the tax.
    On or before the effective date of this tax the city shall enter into a uniform interlocal agreement
with the commission as described in UTAH CODE ANN. § I0-1-405 for the collection, enforcement,
and administration of the municipal telecommunications license tax. If before the effective date of
this tax the city has entered into such an agreement with the commission that agreement is hereby
confirmed. The city's mayor is hereby authorized to enter into such supplementary agreements
with the commission as may be necessary to the continued administration and operation of the
city's telecommunications license tax under this chapter.

3.12.100 Procedures for taxes erroneously recovered from customers.
    A customer may not bring a cause of action against a telecommunications provider on the basis
that the telecommunications provider erroneously recovered from the customer the municipal
telecommunication license tax except as provided in UTAH CODE ANN. § I0-1-408.

3.12.110 Survival ofright-of-way fees.
    Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to amend or repeal any othe1wise permissible
mm1icipal ordinance or fee which provides that the city may recover from a telecommunications
provider, in addition to the tax imposed under this chapter, costs to the city caused by the activities
of a telecommunications provider in the city' s rights-of-way.
                          Cottonwood Heights
                          Cuy btmY-m tht r,111,0111




                        Attachment 3
                        Ordinance 460
This ordinance will grant a non-exclusive franchise allowing All
  West/Utah, Inc. d/b/a All West Fiber to install and operate a
fiber-optic cable telecommunications system in the city's public
                          right-of-way.
                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                      ORDINANCE NO. 460

             AN ORDINANCE GRANTING A TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM
             FRANCHISE TO ALL WEST/UTAH, INC. D/B/A ALL WEST FIBER

         WHEREAS, All West/Utah, Inc. d/b/a All West Fiber, on behalf of itself and its
operating affiliates ("Provider"), desires to provide certain telecommunication services within the
city of Cottonwood Heights ("City") and in connection therewith to establish a fiber-optic cable
telecmrummications network in, under, along, over and across present and future public roads,
streets, alleys and other rights-of-way (the "Public Way") within City's corporate limits ("City
Limits"); and

       WHEREAS, City' s governing body (the "City Council") met in regular session on 6
January 2026 to consider, among other things, adopting an ordinance granting a non-exclusive
franchise to operate such a telecommunications network within City Limits; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the City Council, in the exercise of City's police
power, ownership, or use rights in, to, over and under the public roads, streets, alleys and public
places within City Limits and pursuant to its other regulatory authority, believes it to be in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of City 's residents to grant to Provider a non-exclusive
franchise to operate a network for voice and/or data transmission services within City Limits;

        NOW THEREFORE, be it ordained by the city council ofthe city of Cottonwood Heights
as follows :

         Section l.    Grant of Franchise. City hereby grants to Provider a non-exclusive right,
privilege and franchise (the "Franchise") to construct, maintain and operate in the present and
future Public Way within City Limits a fiber-optic cable telecommunications system (the
"Facilities") to supply competitive local exchange, such as voice and data communications
services, internet access, private line service, cell site front-haul and back-haul capacity using
fiber-optic cables, and leasing of conduit and dark fiber to third parties. The Facilities may be
deployed to businesses and government entities to provide local exchange, internet access and data
transpo1t services. The Facilities may also be deployed to cell sites owned by Provider, its affiliates
and third-party providers, each of whom City shall require to continuously hold separate franchises
or license agreements from City. All Facilities and related cell sites shall be located and operated
in full compliance with all applicable law, including, without limitation, Chapters 14.28 and 19.83
of the COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE OF ORDINANCES (the "Code"). The Facilities will not include
any wireless equipment and will not be deployed by Provider to provide cable service as such term
is defined in 47 USC § 522(6). Further, the Franchise does not authorize Provider to utilize any
City-owned buildings, poles or other stmctures to hold or support any Facilities unless separately
agreed by City and Provider.

Although the Franchise does not grant to Provider the right, privilege or authority to engage in
residential cable TV video service or personal wireless service, nothing contained herein shall
preclude Provider from (a) permitting those with an appropriate franchise who are lawfully
engaged in such business to utilize the Facilities for such purposes, or (b) providing such service
in the future if an appropriate franchise is obtained and all other legal requirements have been
satisfied.

To induce City to grant the Franchise on the terms and conditions of this ordinance (this
"Ordinance"), Provider hereby irrevocably represents, warrants and certifies to City that:

                      (x)     Provider will not provide "wireless services" or act as a "wireless
service provider" except pursuant to a separate franchise or license agreement with City, and

                       (y)      except for any of the Facilities which are coaxial or fiber-optic cable
that is immediately adjacent to or directly associated with a particular "collocation" which is
owned and/or operated by a "wireless services provider," none of the Facilities are or will be any
type of "small wireless facility" or a "utility pole,"

for purposes of the "Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act" codified as UTAH CODE ANN. 54-
21-101 et seq. effective l September 2018, as the same hereafter may be amended (the "Small Cell
Act"). The terms "wireless services," "wireless service provider," "collocation," "small wireless
facility" and "utility pole" as used above are all as defined in the Small Cell Act. Provider's
warranty that it will not provide "wireless services" or act as a "wireless service provider," coupled
with the limited practical impact of the Small Cell Act on "small wireless facilities" which are
limited to such coaxial or fiber-optic cable owned or operated by someone other than a "wireless
services provider," cause Provider to hereby acknowledge and agree that this Ordinance is not,
and will not become, invalid or unenforceable in whole or in part pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN.
54-21-602.

        Section 2.      Acceptance. If Provider desires to accept the Franchise, then within 60 days
after the date of this Ordinance Provider shall file with City an unqualified written acceptance of
the Franchise declaring its acceptance of the Franchise and its intention to be bound by its terms
and conditions. In its written acceptance, Provider shall designate a representative authorized by
Provider to receive and respond to issues and inquiries by City in connection with the Franchise.
Provider may designate a new representative from time to time upon written notice to City.

        Section 3.      Term. The Franchise is granted for a term of ten years, commencing with
the date on which it is accepted. Thereafter, the Franchise will continue in effect, in the absence of
an express written objection by either party, from year-to-year in accordance with the terms of this
Ordinance. Either party may request good-faith renegotiation of the Franchise upon written notice
to the other given at least 120 days before the end of the initial term or any annual renewal period.

        Section 4.      Regulatory Authority. Provider's use and enjoyment of the Franchise shall
be subject to and in compliance with all applicable federal, state and City laws, mies and
regulations, including, without limitation, Chapter 14.28 and Chapter 19.83 of the Code. City
reserves the right to amend the Code and to adopt such additional ordinances and regulations, or
amendments thereto, as may be deemed necessary or advisable in the exercise of its police power
for the protection of the health, safety and welfare of its citizens and their properties or the exercise
of any other rights, powers or duties required or permitted under the Constitution of the United
States, the Constitution of the State of Utah, the laws of the United States, the laws of the State of
Utah, or City's ordinances.

        Section 5.      Construction and Maintenance of Facilities.
                                                   2
              (a)     No Interference. All Facilities shall be constrncted so as to interfere as little
as reasonably possible with traffic on, and other public and City-authorized uses of, the Public
Way.

                (b)      Compliance with Laws. All Facilities shall be constrncted in accordance
with all applicable laws and established constrnction practices, and all Facilities that are installed
as new or relocated Facilities dming the tem1 of the Franchise shall be sited (to the greatest extent
reasonably possible without unreasonable additional cost to Provider) to be visually unobtrusive.
Stealth Facilities are favored. Provider shall comply with all ordinances and regulations that are or
may be prescribed by City with respect to the constmction, maintenance and operations of all
Facilities, including obtaining necessary building permits (which shall not be unreasonably
withheld, conditioned or delayed), so long as such ordinances or regulations do not conflict with
or prejudice Provider's rights under applicable law, this Ordinance, or the requirements of any
other governmental bodies having jurisdiction over Provider. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
however, Provider shall not be required to obtain a permit before perfonning emergency repairs.

                  (c)     Undergrounding. Provider shall place newly constructed or relocated
Facilities underground unless (i) it is not feasible to go underground at the time; (ii) overhead lines
can be placed on already-existing poles; and (iii) Provider agrees to move it facilities underground
when City directs so long as City, at the same time, directs other franchisees with overhead
faci lities in the same location to move their facilities underground.

                (d)    Removal. From and after any termination of the Franchise, Provider shall
be (i) entitled to remove from the Public Way any or all of its Facilities; and (ii) obligated to
remove from the Public Way any or all of its Facilities which would interfere with a public project
planned and approved within three years after the date of such termination for the protection of the
health, safety or welfare of City's residents or for another legitimate, pennitted governmental
purpose. Any such removal shall be at Provider's sole cost or otherwise at no cost to City, and,
upon any such removal, Provider shall be obligated promptly to restore the Public Way affected
by such removal to as near as reasonably practicable their same condition as immediately prior to
such removal.

               (e)     Damage. If Provider causes damage to or alters any of the Public Way or
any improvements (including, without limitation, wires, conduits, or other facilities owned by
other franchisees of City), Provider shall at its own cost and expense and in a manner approved by
City replace and restore such property to the same condition as existed before such damage
occurred, excepting normal, reasonable wear and tear.

               (f)     City Notice. If required by applicable Utah law, before commencing any
street improvements or other work within the Public Ways that may affect the Facilities, City shall
notify Provider and give Provider a reasonable amount of time to mark and if necessary protect its
Facilities.

        Section 6.    Annexation. Upon the annexation of any territory to City, the rights and
obligations hereunder shall extend to the annexed territory to the extent City has such authority.
All Facilities owned, maintained or operated by Provider located within any public ways of the

                                                   3
annexed territory shall thereafter be subject to all of the terms hereof. When any territory is
approved for annexation to City, City shall endeavor to promptly notify Provider of such
annexation and, in any event, shall provide to Provider, within ten business days after Provider's
request, a copy of City's ordinance approving such annexation and a legal description of the
annexation area.

        Section 7.      Excavations. Provider shall have the right to excavate the Public Way in
accordance with City ordinance and other reasonable requirements. Before installing or relocating
underground Facilities, Provider shall notify City as soon as reasonably possible (but in no event
less than 30 days except in the case of a reasonably unforeseeable emergency) in advance of such
work and shall allow City, at its own expense, to share the trench of Provider to lay its own conduit
therein, provided that such action by City shall not unreasonably interfere with Provider's
Facilities or materially delay completion, nor shall such notice be required in emergency situations.
Provider shall maintain on deposit with City throughout the term of the Franchise a cash deposit,
irrevocable letter of credit, or self-bond in the initial amount of $10,000 to guaranty Provider's
faithful performance of Provider's obligations under Chapter 14.16 of the Code.

        Section 8.      Vegetation Management. Provider may at its sole cost pnme, or cause to
be pnmed, all trees, bushes and other vegetation (collectively, " Trees") which overhang the Public
Ways, whether such Trees originate within or without the Public Ways, in such a mam1er and to
such an extent as will prevent the branches, limbs or other parts of such Trees from touching or
interfering with its Facilities, so long as such Trees are not pruned further than may be reasonably
necessary to prevent such interference and to allow the proper operation and maintenance of such
Facilities for the reasonably foreseeable future. Such pruning shall be performed in accordance
with Provider standards and the American National Standard for Tree Care Operations (ANSI
A300) ("ANSI") ; provided, however, that if, at any time during the te1m of the Franchise, ANSI
ceases to be published or ceases to be the standard for arboriculture techniques, then City
reasonably may designate (in consultation with Provider) a substitute standard upon written notice
to Provider. Provider shall use reasonable efforts to notify owners of property on which the Trees
to be pruned are located at least 72 hours prior to doing the work. A growth inhibitor treatment
may be used for trees and vegetation species that are fast-growing and problematic. Nothing
contained in this section shall prevent Provider, when necessary and with the approval of the owner
of the property on which they may be located, from cutting down and removing any Trees which
overhang the Public Ways, whether such Trees originate within or without the Public Ways.

       Section 9.      Annual Plan; Coordination.

               (a)      Annual Plan. Upon request by either City or Provider not more often than
once each calendar year, Provider and City shall meet for the purpose of exchanging information
and docrnnents regarding constmction and other similar work within City Limits, with a view
towards coordinating their respective activities in those areas where such coordination may prove
mutually beneficial. Any information regarding future capital improvements that may involve land
acquisition shall be treated with confidentiality upon request.

               (b)    Coordination. In order to prevent and/or minimize the number of cuts to
and excavations within the Public Ways, Provider shall coordinate with City and other authorized
users of the Public Ways concerning when such cuts or excavations will occur. When possible,

                                                  4
installation, repairs or maintenance of Facilities within the Public Ways shall be made in the same
trench and at the same time as other installations, repairs or maintenance of facilities are conducted
within the Public Way. City will endeavor to give Provider a schedule of street repairs in advance
of City work, provided that such schedule will be subject to change based on, among other things,
available funding.

        Section 10.     Relocation. City reserves the right (exercisable from time to time or at any
time upon written notice to Provider) to require the relocation, removal or reinstallation
(collectively, "Relocation") of any of Provider's Facilities located in, on, along, over, across,
through, or under any street, road, alley or other Public Ways or any real property owned by City
within City Limits, and installed or maintained pursuant to the Franchise and not an enforceable
right-of-way or easement. Within a reasonable time after Provider's receipt of such written notice,
Provider shall effect such Relocation of its Facilities as may be reasonably necessary to meet City's
requirements.

Relocation of Facilities by Provider shall be at no cost to City if such request is for the protection
of the public health, safety and welfare (which includes, without limitation, the placement,
widening or realignment of streets; the placement or realignment of curb, gutter and/or sidewalks;
the creation of a public park or plaza; or the placement, relocation, etc. of traffic signals, street
lighting or the like). If City requires Relocation of any Facilities, the parties shall cooperatively
work together to identify a reasonable realignment of the relocated Facilities, and Provider
thereafter may maintain and operate such Facilities (and any necessary appurtenances) in a new
location within City Limits without additional payment if the new location is a Public Way.
Further, if a City project is funded by federal or state monies that specifically includes an amount
allocated to defray the expenses of Relocation of Facilities, then City shall compensate Provider
up to the extent of such specified amount for any reasonable Relocation costs mandated by the
project to the extent that City actually receives such federal or state funds. In addition, the City
shall bear the cost of relocation of facilities by Provider to the extent such request for relocation
or disconnection is for purely aesthetic purposes or to benefit a third party.

         Section 11.    Public Use Rights. City shall have the right, without cost, to use all poles
and other structures owned by Provider and located in City's Public Ways for fire alarms, police
signal systems, emergency communication systems, and any other lawful public use, provided
that: (a) any such uses by City shall be for activities owned, operated or used by City for public
purposes and shall not include the provision of telecommunication services to third parties; (b)
such use by City shall not require Provider to alter the manner in which Provider operates and
maintains its Facilities; (c) any City attachments shall be installed and maintained in accordance
with Provider's reasonable requirements and the requirements of the then current National Electric
Safety Code; (d) any City attachments shall be installed only pursuant to Provider's prior written
approval, which shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed; and (e) City shall
repair and maintain all City attachments at its sole cost.

         Section 12.    Indemnification. City shall not, in any way or for any purpose, be liable
or responsible for any loss or damage to property or any injury to, or death of, any person that may
occur as a result of the construction, maintenance or operation of the Facilities or Provider's other
activities within City Limits pursuant to the Franchise. Provider shall indemnify, defend and hold
City harmless from and against any and all claims, demands, liens, liabilities, damages, actions

                                                  5
and proceedings of whatsoever type(s) on account of, in connection with, or arising from the grant
of the Franchise, from the exercise of Provider of its related rights, or from Provider's operations
within City Limits, and shall pay the cost of defense plus City's reasonable attorneys' fees.
Provider' s obligation to so defend, indemnify and hold City harmless shall include, without
limitation, any such claims, etc. arising from Provider's negligent acts or omissions pursuant to
the exercise of the Franchise (including, for example, the construction, operation and/or
maintenance of the Facilities), whether or not any such use, act or omission complained of is
authorized, allowed or prohibited by the Franchise. Notwithstanding any provision hereof to the
contrary, however, Provider shall not be obligated to indemnify, defend or hold City harmless to
the extent that any underlying claim, demand or lien arises out of or in connection with any
negligent act or omission of City or any of its officers, agents or employees.

Except as provided above, neither party shall be liable to the other party for any special,
consequential or indirect damages (including, by way of illustration, lost revenues and lost profits)
arising out of its obligations under this Ordinance, whether in action for or arising out of an asserted
breach of contract, tort or otherwise. Further, neither party shall be liable to the extent such claims
are caused by the intentional conduct or negligent acts or omissions of the other party.

        Section 13 .   Insurance. Provider shall maintain in full force during the entire term of
the Franchise commercial general liability insurance in an amount or not less than $2 Million per
occurrence insuring against claims for bodily injury, death or prope1ty damage occurring as a result
of the construction, maintenance or operation of the Facilities or Provider's other activities within
City Limits pursuant to the Franchise. Provider may elect to assume such liabilities and risk of loss
through deductibles and/or a qualified self-insurance program.

        Section 14.     Assignment of Franchise. Provider shall not transfer, assign or delegate
any of its rights or obligations under the Franchise to another entity without City' s prior written
approval, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed; provided, however, that
inclusion of the Franchise as an asset of Provider subject to the liens and mortgages of Provider
shall not constitute a transfer or assignment requiring City's prior written consent. Provider's
assignment of its rights and delegation of its duties under the Franchise to Provider's parent,
subsidiary, successor or affiliate (collectively, a "Related Entity") shall be effective upon written
notice to City and shall not require City' s p1ior written consent provided that such Related Entity
(a) is under common ownership and control with Provider, and (b) is at least as creditworthy and
financially viable as Provider.

         Section 15.    Effect oflnvalidity. If any portion of this Ordinance is for any reason held
illegal, invalid, or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not
affect the validity of any remaining portions of this Ordinance.

        Section 16.    Termination. City may tenninate the Franchise if (a) Provider violates a
material duty under this Ordinance and fails to cure such violation within 60 days after receiving
City' s written notice specifying such violation and the acceptable methods for curing such
violation; or (b) Provider becomes insolvent, unable or unwilling to pay its debts when due, is
adjudged bankrupt, or part or all of its Facilities within the Public Ways are sold under an
instrument to secure a debt and are not redeemed by Provider within 60 days. Termination of the
Franchise is in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other rights or remedies available to City upon

                                                   6
Provider' s default hereunder. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Franchise to the contrary,
Provider shall not be held in default under or in non-compliance with the provisions of this
Franchise, nor suffer any enforcement or penalty relating thereto, for any such non-compliance or
alleged defaults that are caused by strikes, acts of God, power outages, or other events reasonably
beyond its ability to control.

       Section 17.     Public Way Rate; Reservation of Right.

                (a)    Public Way Rate. Provider shall pay to City an annual amount equal to three
and one-half percent (3 .5%) of Provider's gross revenues related to its use of the Public Way to
the extent that any of the Facilities constitute small wireless facilities for purposes of the Small
Cell Act.

                (b)      Reservation of Right. Nothing in this Ordinance shall affect City's right,
under the "Municipal Telecommimications License Tax Act" (UTAH CODE ANN. §10-1-401 et
seq.) or any other applicable law then in effect, at any time hereafter to prospectively impose upon,
charge or collect from Provider any municipal telecommunications license tax on Provider's gross
receipts from telecommunications service that are attributed to City or this Franchise under such
act or any other rate, fee or compensation for the right to use or occupy City' s public right of way,
and/or City poles, strnctures or other facilities therein or thereon, which may be imposed by City
under applicable state law so long as such compensation is charged on a uniform, non-
discriminatory basis to all similar providers.

        Section 18.     Notices. Unless othe1wise specified herein, all notices to City hereimder
shall be delivered to the City Recorder's office, and all notices to Provider hereunder shall be
delivered to 50 West 100 North, Kamas, UT84036, or such other address as Provider may specify
in written notice to City.

        Section 19.    Severability. It is hereby declared that all parts of this Ordinance are
severable, and if any section, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason, be held
or found to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section,
clause or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, clauses or provisions of this Ordinance.

       This Ordinance, assigned no. 460, shall take inm1ediate effect as soon as it shall be
published or posted as required by law, deposited and recorded in the office of the City Recorder,
and accepted as required herein.

        PASSED AND APPROVED this 6th day of January 2026.


ATTEST:                                        COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


                                               By _ _ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __
By:-----------
 Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                         Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor



                                                  7
                                   VOTING:

                                   Gay Lynn Bennion            Yea _ Nay_
                                   Matt Holton                 Yea_Nay_
                                   Suzanne Hyland              Yea_Nay_
                                   Shawn E. Newell             Yea_Nay_
                                   Ellen Birrell               Yea_Nay_

DEPOSITED in the Recorder's office this 6th day of January 2026.

POSTED this_ day of January 2026.




                                      8
                            Cottonwood Heights
                            C,ry br1uw11 1hr r,mpm




                          Attachment 4
                         Ordinance 461
This ordinance will amend Section 2.10.050 of the city's code of
    ordinances to change the fidelity bonding requirement for
 certain city officers as formerly specified in state law to instead
require crime insurance coverage as provided in H.B. 64 enacted
       by the Utah Legislature in its 2025 general session.
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                      ORDINANCE NO. 461

                  AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 2. 10.050 OF THE
                      COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE OF ORDINANCES

        WHEREAS, pursuant to H.B. 64 enacted by the Utah Legislature in its 2025 general
session, UTAH CODE ANN. § l 0-3-83 l concerning required fidelity bonding for certain municipal
employees was amended to instead require so-called "crime insurance" coverage for such
employees; and

        WHEREAS, consequently on 6 January 2026 the city council (the "CounciI'') of the city
of Cottonwood Heights (the "City") met in regular meeting to consider, among other things,
amending Section 2.10.050 ("Section 2.10.050") of the City's code of ordinances (the "Code") to
change the requirement of fidelity bonding for certain City employees to instead be a requirement
for crime insurance as provided in UTAH CODE ANN. § l 0-3-831 as amended; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interest of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to adopt and enact such
amendment (the "Amendment") as proposed;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

         Section 1.     Adoption ol Amendment. The Council hereby adopts and enacts the
Amendment in the form of the attached exhibit, which shows additions to current Section 2.10.050
w1derlined or otherwise shown as additions, and deletions to current Section 2.10.050 5tm€-k
t hrn,1gh or otherwise shown as deletions.

       Section 2.     Action o(Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of tl1e
City that are in confonnity with the purpose and intent of this ordinance (this "Ordinance"),
whether taken before or after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

       Section 3.       Severabilitv. It is hereby declared that all parts of this Ordinance are
severable, and if any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason,
be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section,
paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or
provisions of this Ordinance.

         Section 4.     Repe,tler. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

        Section 5.      Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 461 , shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City's Recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 6th day of January 2026.
ATTEST:                                COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By:----------                          By _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __
  Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                 Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                       VOTING:

                                       Gay Lynn Bennion            Yea_Nay_
                                       Matt Holton                 Yea_Nay_
                                       Suzanne Hyland              Yea_Nay_
                                       Shawn E. Newell             Yea_Nay_
                                       Ellen Birrell               Yea_Nay_

    DEPOSITED in the Recorder's office this 6th day of January 2026.

    POSTED this_ day of January 2026.




                                          2
                                EXHIBIT TO ORDINANCE NO. 461

                                             Chapter 2.10

                                     GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sections:
2.10.010 Short title.
2.10.020 Form of government.
2.10.030 City organization.
2.10.040 Oaths of office.
2.10.050 &Bas-Crime insnrance.
2.10.060 Compensation schedule.
2.10.070 Emergency management succession of offices.
2.10.080 City seal.
2.10.090 City logo.
2.10.100 City flag.
2.10.110 Inspection authority.
2.10.120 Policy for approval of minutes



2.19.{)5{) Bonds.
    A. The mayor and each member of the city coUHcil, prior to assuming office, shall file with
the city recorder a bond, with corporate s--..ueties, eoeditioned upon the faithful performance of the
duties of his office aH:d the paymeH:t of all moneys received b:,· the mayor according to la•,1, · aed the
ordinances of the city. The bond shall be payable to the city in the penal sum of $1 ,000.00. The
premium charged by a corporate surety for the bond shall be paid by the city.
    R The bond of the mayor shall be approved by the city cotfficil, and the individual beads of
the members of the city council shall be appro,·ed by the mayor, at the first meeting of the city
council in JanuarJ follov,:i:ng a mUHicipal election.
    C. Certain other city officials, as req-ui:red by !av,· or as determined by the cit:,· manager, shall
obtain boed:i:ng from a good and sufficieet surety before eetering upon the duties of their respectiYe
offices. The beads, •.vh.ich may be iB the form of a "blaH:lrnt" bond, shall be payable to the city,
duly approved by the city attorney, and conditioned upon the faithful performance and discharge
of the officials' respective duties. For proper application and paymeet of all money or property
coming i:eto the officials' hands ey virtue of their offices, the beads shall be ia the amouat of
$25,000 each, m,cept for the city treasurer, v;ho shall obtaie boad:i:ng ia the amoants prescribed by
state lav.'. The city shall pay all premiums for the above required beads.

2.10.050 Crime insurance.
    A. As used in this section:
    I. "Municipal officer" means:
    (a) The city' s mayor:
    (b) Each member of the city' s legislative body;
    (c) The city' s treasurer; and
    (d) Any other city officer or employee whom the city's legislative body requires by ordinance
to obtain crime insurance: and

                                                    3
    2. "Crime insurance" has the same meanmg as under UTAH CODE ANN. §10-3-831, as
amended.
    B . Before the city's ni.ayor or a member of the city' s legislative body may discharge their
duties of office, the city shall have in place crime insurance covering such city officer in the amount
of at least $2 Million.
    C. Before the city' s treasurer may discharge their duties of office, the city shall have in place
crime insurance covering the treasurer in an amount not less than the amount set by the Utah State
Money Management Council created in UTAH CODE ANN. §51-7- 16, as amended.
    D. If the city' s legislative body requires by ordinance crime insurance coverage for any other
city employee(s) or officer(s), before they may discharge their duties of office the city shall have
in place crime insurance covering such employee or officer in the amount specified in such
ordinance.
    E. The city may acquire crime insurance required by this section on the covered officers and
employees as a group rather than individually.
    F . The citv's legislative body shall cause the city to pay from city funds the premium of any
crime insurance policy described in this section.
    G. The city recorder shall maintain proof of crime insurance required by this section.




                                                   4
                          Cottonwood
                             bnu-em
                          C11y
                                     Heights
                                 1/,e r,lll)Ollf




                        Attachment 5
                     Resolution 2026-01
 Section 2.30.040 of the city's code of ordinances provides that
    the council at its first regular meeting in January of even-
numbered years shall by secret ballot elect a mayor pro tempore
 to perform certain limited functions of the mayor during times
  when the mayor is unable or unwilling to act. This resolution
  will ratify such election of a mayor pro tempo re for January
     2026 until a successor is elected, likely in January 2028.
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                  RESOLUTION N 0. 2026-01

                              A RESOLUTION RATIFYING THE
                           ELECTION OF A MAYOR PRO TEMPORE

        WHEREAS, §2.30.040, COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE OF ORDINANCES, requires the city
council (the "Council") of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City") to select (by secret ballot
held at the first regularly-scheduled meeting of the Council in even-numbered years, or as soon
thereafter as is reasonably practical) one if its members to act as mayor pro tempore in the event
of the mayor's inability or refusal to act; and

      WHEREAS, on 6 January 2026 the Council so elected councilrnember
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ as the City's mayor pro tempore to act in the place of Mayor Gay Lynn
Bennion from time to time in the event of Mayor Bennion's inability or refusal to act; and

       WHEREAS, the Council now desires to ratify by formal resolution such election; and

       WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it would be in
the best interests of the health, safety and welfare of the inhabitants of the City to so act;

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Cottonwood Heights city council that
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ be, and hereby is, designated as mayor pro tempore for the City, to act in
the place of Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion in the event of Mayor Bennion's inability or refusal to act
at any time, or from time to time, during the period from 6 January 2026 through the first regularly-
scheduled meeting of the Council in January 2028, or until a successor mayor pro tempore is
designated and approved by the Council.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-01, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

       PASSED AND APPROVED effective 6 January 2026.

ATTEST:                                       COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By: _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __                         By _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ __ _ __
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                     Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor

                                              VOTING:

                                              Gay Lynn Bennion               Yea_Nay_
                                              Matt Holton                    Yea_Nay_
                                              Suzanne Hyland                 Yea_Nay_
                                              Shawn E. Newell                Yea_Nay _
                                              Ellen Birrell                  Yea_Nay_

       DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 6th day of January 2026.

       RECORDED this _ day of January 2026.
                           Cottonwood Heights
                            Cuy bm,vm 1hr r,111)'0111




                          Attachment 6
                       Resolution 2026-02
 By this resolution, the council will approve the city's entry into
an agreement whereunder Rocky Mountain Power will authorize
  the city to continue implementation of a community art pilot
program allowing local artists to decorate certain of RMP's pad-
mounted electric transmission and distribution equipment in the
                        city's public places.
                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                   RESOLUTION NO. 2026-02

                   A RESOLUTION APPROVING A REVOCABLE RIGHT OF
                  ACCESS AGREEMENT WITH ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER
                               (PUBLIC ART PROJECT)

       WHEREAS, Rocky Mountain Power, an tmincorporated division of PacifiCorp ("RMP"),
owns, operates and maintains certain pad-mounted electric transmission and distribution
equipment (the "Equipment") in public places of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the " City")
pursuant to an electric distribution system franchise granted by the City to RMP through 2027; and

       WHEREAS, the City desires, and RMP is willing to allow, the City to continue
implementing a conununity ai1 pilot program to allow local artists to decorate certain of the
Equipment on the tenns and conditions specified in a proposed "Revocable Right of Access
Agreement" between the City and RMP (the "Agreement"), a copy of which is attached hereto as
an exhibit; and

       WHEREAS, the City's city council (the "Councif') met in regular session on 6 January
2026 to consider, among other things, approving the City's entry into the Agreement; and

       WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed the Agreement and, after careful consideration, has
determined that it is in the best interests of the health, safety and welfare of the City's residents to
approve and ratify the City's entry into the Agreement as proposed;

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights that the Agreement is hereby approved and ratified, and that the City's mayor and recorder
are authorized and directed to execute and deliver the Agreement on behalf of the City.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-02, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 6th day of January 2026.

ATTEST:                                        COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By:--- - - - - - - - - -                       By:
                                                     - - - -- - - - -- -- - - - - -
  Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                           Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                               VOTING:

                                                Gay Lynn Bennion                Yea _ Nay_
                                                Matt Holton                     Yea_Nay_
                                                Suzanne Hyland                  Yea_Nay_
                                                Shawn E. Newell                 Yea_Nay_
                                                Ellen Birrell                   Yea_Nay_
DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 6 th day of January 2026.

RECORDED this_ day of January 2026.




                                       2
                          Revocable Right of Access Agreement
       This REVOCABLE RIGHT OF ACCESS AGREEMENT ("Agreement"), dated January
_, 2026, is by and between Rocky Mountain Power, an unincorporated division of PacifiCorp
("Licensor") and Cottonwood Heights, a Utah municipal corporation ("Licensee").

                                            RECITALS

       A.      Licensor owns, operates, and maintains transmission and distribution assets in
Licensee 's public places pursuant to an electric distribution system franchise granted by Licensee
to Licensor through 2027; and

       B.     Licensee desires and Licensor is willing to allow Licensee to continue to implement
a community art pilot program to allow local artists to decorate certain pad mounted equipment as
described in Exhibit A attached hereto, owned by Licensor and located within Licensee's legal
boundaries; and

        C.     Licensor has agreed to grant a temporary, non-exclusive and revocable license to
Licensee solely for the purpose of pennitting Licensee and its designated artists (the "Licensee
Parties") to decorate designated pad mounted equipment located in Cottonwood Heights (the
"Project").

                                           AGREEMENT

       NOW THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of
which are hereby acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:

       1.     Right of Enny. Licensor hereby grants to Licensee Pa1ties the right to paint or
decorate pad mounted equipment designated by Licensor, subject to the following conditions:

                a.    Licensee Parties shall strictly comply with any instmctions, directions or
restrictions promulgated by Licensor;

              b.      any artwork on Licensor's pad mounted equipment is limited to the area
between the ground line and 8 feet above the ground line;

              c.     any tag, label, lock, or warning sign affixed to Licensor's pad mounted
equipment shall remain intact, unaltered, and not decorated or otherwise covered;

              d.      any ladder or stool used to apply the artwork will be free standing and not
allowed to contact Licensor' s pad mounted equipment;

             e.    Licensee Parties shall not modify, move, or remove any part of Licensor's
pad mounted equipment, or any equipment attached thereto;

                f.      Licensor may change, modify and/or replace any pad mounted equipment
as required or in its sole discretion;

               g.     Licensor will designate the number and location of pad mounted equipment
to be used by Licensee Parties for the Project in its sole discretion, after discussing the Project with
Licensee.
                                                 1 of 4
               h.     Licensee will be responsible for removing, or will reimburse Licensor for
the costs of removing, any unauthorized graffiti, painting or other modification to Licensor's pad
mounted equipment.

                i.      Licensor may revoke this Agreement with written notice to the Licensee of
no less than five (5) business days, at its sole discretion.

             j.      Licensor will be given the opportunity to approve the decorations prior to
implementation as part of the Project.

                k.     Licensee shall give Licensor ten ( 10) business days' advance written notice
of the Licensee Parties' intent to begin the Project. Such notice shall set forth the exact date and
approximate time when the activities are proposed to occur. In the event the proposed date and
time are unacceptable to Licensor, Licensee agrees to cooperate with Licensor in scheduling a
substitute date and time.

        2.      Compliance with Law. Licensee shall secure, at its expense, any and all necessary
permits and shall comply with all applicable federal, state and local laws, regulation and
enactments applicable to this Agreement. Licensee Parties shall perform and stage the Project so
as to ensure the safety of: (a) Licensee Pa1ties; (b) any and all Licensor operations conducted in
the area; (c) surrounding property owners; and (d) the public in general.

        3.      Indemnification. Licensee, for itself, its successors, agents, contractors and
employees, hereby jointly and severally releases, relinquishes and discharges Licensor and agrees
to and does hereby agree to jointly and severally indemnify, defend and hold harmless, Licensor
and its officers, directors, employees, representatives, agents, attorneys and consultants
("Indernnitees") , from and against any and all actions, claims, losses, costs, damages, expenses,
penalties, assessments, injury, liability and judgments, orders, governmental directives, penalties,
administration and judicial proceedings and other liabilities of any kind to the extent caused by,
arising out of or occurring in connection with the Project and/or this Agreement (including, without
limitation reasonable attorney's fees and expe1t witness fees) caused by any Licensee Parties'
performance of activities in connection with this Agreement or the Project, including, without
limitation, claims for personal injuries, including disease and death, propetty loss or damage or
injuries to others relating to the activities under this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing or
anything in this Agreement to the contrary, however: (a) Licensee shall have no duty to so
indemnify, defend and hold harmless lndemnitees from any Claims caused by the negligence or
willful misconduct of an Indemnitee; and (b) Licensee is a governmental entity who is bound by
the provisions of the Utah Governmental Immunity Act (UTAH CODE ANN. 63G-7-l O1 et seq.) and
who does not waive any procedmal or substantive defense or benefit available under the Immunity
Act. The foregoing release and indemnity shall survive the termination of this Agreement.

        4.      Insurance. Licensee shall maintain in full force during the entire term of the
Agreement commercial general liability insurance in an amount of not less than $2 million per
occurrence insuring against claims for bodily injury, death or property damage occurring as a result
of the Project. Licensee may elect to assume such liabilities and risk of loss through deductibles
and/or a qualified self-insurance program.

       5.      Notices. Any notice, communication, report or demand required or desired to be
given tmder this Agreement shall be in writing delivered at the addresses shown below or at such
other address as the respective parties may from time to time designate by like notice. Each such
notice shall be effective upon being delivered.

               To Licensor:            Tracy Bell
                                       Regional Business Manager
                                       1569 W North Temple
                                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84 116

               With a copy to:         Rocky Mountain Power
                                       Office of General Counsel
                                       1407 West No1th Temple, Suite 320
                                       Salt Lake City, UT 84116

               To Licensee Parties: Cottonwood Heights
                                    Attn. Culture Manager
                                    2277 East Bengal Blvd.
                                    Cottonwood Heights, Utah 84121

        6.      Termination of Agreement. If any of the Licensee Parties fail to observe the
conditions of this Agreement after notice from Licensor and fail to cure within five (5) business
days, this Agreement may be terminated by Licensor without further notice; provided, however,
that in the event of a material violation of this Agreement by any of the Licensee Parties, this
Agreement may be tem1inated immediately without providing the Licensee Parties an opportunity
to cure the default. This Agreement shall otherwise expire by its terms on January 1, 2039.

       7.      Miscellaneous.

               a.    Captions. The captions of the sections of this Agreement are for
convenience only and shall not be considered or referred to in resolving questions of interpretation
and construction.

                b.     Governing Law. This Agreement shall be construed, interpreted and
applied in accordance with the internal laws of the State of Utah, without regard to principles of
conflicts of law. Jurisdiction and venue for litigation arising from this Agreement shall be in Salt
Lake C0tmty.

               c.     Integration: Amendment. This Agreement may not be altered, modified, or
amended unless by an instrument in writing duly executed by each of the parties then bound by
this Agreement. This Agreement constitutes all of the agreements and understanding of the parties
concerning the subject matter contained herein and supersedes all prior oral or written agreements
or understandings.

                d.       Severability. If any one or more of the provisions of this Agreement shall
for any reason be held invalid, illegal or tmenforceable in any respect, that invalidity, illegality or
unenforceability shall not affect any other provision herein and this Agreement shall be constmed
as if the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provision had never been included, provided, however,
in no event shall either party be deprived of a material consideration by operation of this provision.

                e.      Attorneys' Fees and Expert Witness Fees. In the event any party hereto
brings an action or proceeding for a declaration of the rights of the parties under this Agreement,
an interpretation of this Agreement, for injunctive relief, or for an alleged breach or default of, or
any other action arising out of, this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby, the
prevailing party in any such action shall be entitled to an award of reasonable attorneys' fees and
costs and expert witness fees incurred in such action or proceeding, without regard to any rule of
court or schedule of such fees maintained by the court, in addition to any other damages or relief
awarded, regardless of whether such action proceeds to final judgment.

               f.      Binding Effect. The Licensee Parties shall not have the right to assign this
Agreement without the prior written consent of Licensor, which may be withheld in Licensor's
sole and absolute discretion. Subject to the foregoing, this Agreement shall be binding upon and
inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective heirs, legal representatives, tenants,
lenders, and successors and assigns.

               g.       Warranty of Authorized Signatories. Each of the signatories hereto
warrants and represents that he or she is competent and authorized to enter into this Agreement on
behalf of the party for whom he or she purports to sign.

                 h.     Reservation of Rights. Each of the rights of the parties set forth in the
individual sections of this Agreement are in addition to, and not exclusive of, the rights of such
party, at law, in equity or otherwise. No damages or remedies available to a party at law, in equity
or otherwise, shall be deemed or constmed to be limited by or under the terms of this Agreement,
other than as provided in Section 8.

               i.     Non-Waiver. The failure of Licensor to insist on strict perfonnance of the
terms hereunder will not be deemed as a waiver of any rights or remedies that Licensor may have
for any subsequent breach, default, or non-performance and Licensor's right to insist on strict
perfonnance of this Agreement. No waiver is valid unless set forth in writing signed by the
waiving party.

        8.      Jury Waiver. To the fullest extent permitted by law, Licensor and Licensee Parties
waive any right they may have to a trial by jury in respect oflitigation directly or indirectly arising
out of, under or in connection with this easement. Each party further waives any right to
consolidate any action in which a jury trial has been waived with any other action in which a jury
trial cannot be or has not been waived.

        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement effective as of
the date and year first above written.

                                      [Signature page.follows]
Licensor:

PacifiCorp, an Oregon corporation, d/b/a Rocky Mountain Power


By:

Its:

Dated:
         - - -- - - - - - -- -


Licensee:

Cottonwood Heights                               Attest:



By: - -- - - - - - - - --                       B y : - - - - -- - - - -- -
    Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor                       Tiffany Janzen, Recorder

Dated:
         ------------
           EXHIBIT A

Pad Mount Equipment - Itemized List
                       Attachment 7
                    Resolution 2026-03
This resolution will approve an amendment to the development
agreement for the Cottonwood Canyon Cove Subdivision that
 was approved under Resolution 2023-24. The purpose of the
  amendment is to modify the Exhibit D "Final Park Plan".
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                  RESOLUTION No. 2026-03

                  A RESOLUTION APPROVING AN AMENDMENT TO A
             DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT WITH IVORY DEVELOPMENT, LLC
                       (COTTONWOOD CANYON COVE SUBDIVISION)

      WHEREAS, effective 2 May 2023 the city council (the "Councif') of the city of
Cottonwood Heights (the "City") enacted its Resolution 2023-24 approving a development
agreement (the "Agreement" ) with Ivory Development, LLC ("Developer") concerning
Developer's proposed residential development located at or near 3625 East 7650 South in the City;
and

        WHEREAS, the parties subsequently prepared a proposed amendment (the "Amendment")
to the Agreement to resolve certain issues that had arisen under the original Agreement; and

        WHEREAS, the Council met in regular session on 6 January 2026 to consider, among
other things, approving the City's entry into the Amendment; and

       WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed the form of the Amendment, a photocopy of which
is annexed hereto; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the City' s residents to approve the City's entry into
the Amendment as proposed;

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Cottonwood Heights city council that
the attached Amendment is hereby approved, and that the City's mayor and recorder are authorized
and directed to execute and deliver the Amendment on behalf of the City.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-03, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

       PASSED AND APPROVED effective 6 January 2026.

ATTEST:                                       COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By: - -- - - - - - - - - -                    By _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ __ __ _ _
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                     Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor

                                              VOTING:

                                              Gay Lynn Bennion               Yea_Nay_
                                              Matt Holton                    Yea _ Nay_
                                              Suzanne Hyland                 Yea_Nay_
                                              Shawn E. Newell                Yea_Nay_
                                              Ellen Birrell                  Yea_Nay_
DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 6th day of January 2026.

RECORDED this_ day of January 2026.




                                       2
WHEN RECORDED RETURN TO:

COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
Attn: Tiffany Janzen, City Recorder
2277 East Bengal Blvd.
Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121

              First Amendment to Development Agreement
                         (Cottonwood Canyon Cove Subdivision)

       THIS FIRST AMENDMENT TO DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT (this
"Amendment") is entered into effective 6 January 2026 by and between IVORY
DEVELOPMENT, LLC, a Utah limited liability company whose address is 970 East Woodoak
Lane, Salt Lake City, UT 84117 ("Jvo,y"), and the city of COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, a Utah
municipality whose address is 2277 East Bengal Blvd. , Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121 ("City"),
who are hereinafter sometimes referred to individually as a "Party" or collectively as the "Parties."



        A.      Effective on or about 2 May 2023 the Parties entered into a "Development
Agreement" (the "Agreement") concerning Ivory's proposed development of certain real property
(the "Property") located within City's boundaries. The Development Agreement was recorded in
the official records of the Recorder of Salt Lake County, Utah on 25 May 2023 as Entry No.
14109873 in Book 11421 beginning at Page 5189 und,er the legal description shown on attached
Exhibit "A."

       B.   The Parties now desire to amend certain provisions of the Agreement as detailed in
this Amendment.

                                       AGREEMENT:

       NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein and for
other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby
acknowledged, the Parties hereby agree as follows:

                                       AGREE ME NT:

        NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of their mutual promises and for other
good and valuable consideration, the receipt and legal adequacy of which is hereby acknowledged,
the Parties covenant and agree as set fo1ih herein.

        Section 1.    Defined Terms. Unless otherwise defined in this Amendment, all
capitalized terms in this Amendment shall have the same meanings and definitions as in the
Agreement.

       Section 2.    Amendment of Exhibit D. The Park Plan attached to this Amendment as
Exhibit "B" (the "Revised Park Plan") is hereby substituted for Park Plan attached to the
Agreement as Exhibit "D" (the "Original Park Plan"), so that from and after the effective date of
this Amendment the Revised Park Plan shall be effective and the Original Park Plan shall be
ineffective.

      Section 3.     No Other Modifications. Except as specifically amended in this
Amendment, the terms of the Agreement shall remain umnodified and in full force and effect
between the parties.

        DATED effective the date first-above written.

                                            CITY:

ATTEST:                                     COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, a Utah municipality


By:-- - - - - - - - --                      By:
                                                  ----------------
     Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                     Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


STATE OF UTAH       )
                    : ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

       On _ January 2025 personally appeared before me Gay Lynn Bennion and Tiffany
Janzen, who duly acknowledged to me that they executed the foregoing document as the mayor
and the recorder, respectively, of COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, a Utah municipality.



                                            Notary Public


                                            IVORY DEVELOPMENT, LLC,
                                            a Utah limited liability company


                                            By: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
                                               - - - - - -- -, Manager

STATE OF UTAH                 )
                              : SS.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

      On _ January 2026 personally appeared before me _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _, who duly
acknowledged to me that they executed the foregoing document as the manager of IVORY
DEVELOPMENT, LLC, a Utah limited liability company.



                                            Notary Public


                                               2
                            Exhibit "A" to
               First Amendment to Development Agreement
       A part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 25, Township 2 South, Rangel East, Salt Lake
Base and Meridian, located in Cottonwood Heights, Utah, being more particularly described as
follows:

        Beginning at a point on the southeasterly right-of-way line of 3635 East Street as established
by BRIGHTON POINT No. 3 Subdivision according to the official plat thereof, recorded as Entry
No. 2494728 in Book MM at Page 74 in the office of the Salt Lake C0tmty Recorder, said point
being located N00°03'40"W 1366.90 feet along the Section line and N89°56'20"E 956.16 feet from
the Southwest Comer of Section 25, Township 2 South, Range l East, Salt Lake Base and Meridian;
mnning thence along said right-of-way line N34°00'00"E 73.17 feet to a southeasterly comer of
OAKVIEW ESTATES No. 5 Subdivision, according to the official plat thereof, recorded as Entry
No. 2614857 in Book 74-4 at Page 66 in the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder; thence along
said plat S82°36'50"E 193.63 feet to and along the southerly line of BRIGHTON POINT
SUBDIVISION No. 4, according to the official plat thereof, recorded as Entry No. 2534853 in
Book NN at Page 83 in the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder; thence S27°56' 13"E 335.0 l
feet; thence S49°45'35"E 43.79 feet: thence S40° 14'25"W 60.10 feet; thence Southwesterly along
the arc of a curve to the right having a radius of 20.00 feet a distance of 11.97 feet through a central
angle of 34° 18' 11" Chord: S57°23 ' 30"W 11.80 feet to a point on the northeasterly right-of-way
line of 7650 South Street: thence along said right-of-way line the following two (2) courses: (I)
N63° 10'02"W 201.36 feet; thence (2) along the arc of a curve to the left with a radius of 70.00 feet
a distance of 68.89 feet through a central angle of 56°23'28" Chord: S88°38' 14"W 66.15 feet; thence
N29°33'30"W 151.37 feet; thence N34°00'00"E 69.03 feet; thence N56°00'00"W 111. 79 feet to the
point of beginning.

Parcel No. 22253520440000




                                                   3
                          Cottonwood Heights
                          C11y !Nmvm 1/~ r<1ll)lllll




                        Attachment 8
                     Resolution 2026-04
 This resolution will approve the city's entry into an interlocal
agreement with Sandy City concerning a joint crosswalk study
  on Creek Road between Union Park Avenue and 3500 East.
                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                   RESOLUTION NO. 2026-04

              A RESOLUTION APPROVING AND RATIFYING E NTRY INTO AN
       INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT WITH SANDY FOR A JOINT CROSSWALK STUDY


        WHEREAS, the Interlocal Cooperation Act, UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-13-101 et. seq. (the
"Interlocal Cooperation Act"), provides that any two or more public agencies may enter into
agreements with one another for joint or cooperative action following the adoption of an
appropriate resolution by the governing body of each participating public agency; and

        WHEREAS, Sandy City ("Sandy" ) and the city of Cottonwood Heights (the " City") are
public agencies for purposes of the Interlocal Cooperation Act; and

        WHEREAS, the City and Sandy jointly desire to enter into an interlocal agreement (the
"Agreement") whereunder they collaboratively will engage a qualified consultant to perform a
pedestrian cross ing study for the segment of Creek Road from Union Park Avenue to 3500 East to
determine safe and appropriate locations for pedestrian crossings, on the terms and conditions
specified in the Agreement; and

       WHEREAS, the City's municipal council (the " Council") met in regular session on 6
January 2026 to consider, among other things, approving and ratifying the City' s entry into the
Agreement; and

       WHEREAS, the Council lias reviewed the fonn of the Agreement, a photocopy of which
is annexed hereto; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has detennined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the City's residents to approve and ratify the City' s
entry into the Agreement as proposed;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights that the attached Agreement with the County be, and hereby is, approved and ratified, and
that the City's mayor and recorder are authorized and directed to execute and deliver the
Agreement on behalf of the City; and be it

        FURTHER RESOLVED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood Heights that all
actions of any and all elected and appointed officers of the City effecting the City' s prior entry into
the Agreement are hereby ratified and confirmed.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-04, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

        PASSED AND APPROVED this 6th day of January 2026.
ATTEST:                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL




By:------------                         By:
                                              ----------------
  Tiffany Janzen, City Recorder               Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                         VOTING:

                                        Gay Lynn Bennion             Yea_Nay_
                                        Matt Holton                  Yea_Nay_
                                        Suzanne Hyland               Yea_Nay_
                                        Shawn E. Newell              Yea_Nay_
                                        Ellen Birrell                Yea_Nay_

     DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 6th day of January 2026.

     RECORDED this _ day of January 2026.




                                            2
                    INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
                                       Between
                 SANDY CITY and the city of COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
                                      for project
                    CREEK ROAD PEDESTRIAN CROSSING STUDY



THIS INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") is made and
entered into this 6th day of January, 2025, with an effective date as provided in Section 11 of this
Agreement, by and between SANDY CITY, a municipal corporation of the State of Utah
("Sandy"); and the city of COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, a municipal corporation of the State of
Utah ("Cottonwood Heights"). Sandy and Cottonwood Heights are sometimes referred to
collectively as the "Parties" and either may be referred to individually as a "Party", all as governed
by the context in which such words are used.

                                         WITNESSETH:

WHEREAS, Sandy and Cottonwood Heights are both public agencies as defined in Title 11,
Chapter 13, UTAH CODE ANN. (the "Interlocal Cooperation Act"). Section 11-13-202 of the
Interlocal Cooperation Act authorizes public agencies to enter into joint agreements with each
other on a basis of mutual advantage to prnvide services and facilities in a manner consistent with
best geographic, economic, population, and other factors influencing the needs and development
of local communities; and
WHEREAS, in consultation with Cottonwood Heigh.ts, Sandy is or ·will be advertising a
pedestrian crossing study for a segment of Creek Road from Union Park Avenue to 3500 East to
determine safe and appropriate locations for pedestrian crossings ("the Study"); and

WHEREAS, it is just and equitable for Sandy and Cottonwood Heights to share in cost of the
Study, as provided in this Agreement, since Sandy and Cottonwood Heights both border Creek
Road; and

WHEREAS, Sandy and Cottonwood Heights desire to enter into an agreement, which sets forth
the rights, obligations, and responsibilities of each Party with respect to the Study.

                                          AGREEMENT:

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises and the mutual covenants and
undertakings, the Parties hereby agree as follows:

        1. Sandv's Obligations.

                a. Sandy shall issue a Request for Proposal for the Study in conformance with
                   Sandy's purchasing requirements;

               b. Sandy will fonn the selection committee in accordance with its purchasing
                  requirements but will allow Cottonwood Heights will appoint half of the
                   individuals to serve on the committee with Sandy appointing the other half.
                   Sandy shall thereafter inform Cottonwood Heights in writing of the selected
                   consultant and the consultant's itemized bid amounts for the Study.
                   Cottonwood Heights shall either approve or disapprove in writing of the
                   selected consultant within three business days after receiving Sandy' s written
                   designation of the proposed consultant. Cottonwood Heights' failure to timely
                   disapprove of the selected consultant shall constitute its deemed approval. If
                   Cottonwood Heights timely disapproves of the consultant, then the parties
                   promptly shall meet and confer in an effort to reach agreement. If the parties
                   fail to so agree within ten business days after Cottonwood Heights' disapproval,
                   then within three business days thereafter Cottonwood Heights may terminate
                   tl1is Agreement in writing to Sandy. If Cottonwood Heights fails to so terminate,
                   then it shall be deemed to have approved the consultant.

               c. Following Cottonwood Heights' actual or deemed approval of the selected
                  consultant, Sandy will enter a contract with the consultant in accordance with
                  Sandy's ordinary contracting procedures.

       2. Cottonwood Heights' Obligations.

               a. Cottonwood Heights grants Sandy all required pennission and access to Creek
                  Road for the Study to be completed in accordance with and subject to all laws
                  and ordinances.

               b. Cottonwood Heights agrees to pay for half of the cost of the Study. Sandy will
                  provide Cottonwood Heights with an invoice for its share of the cost of the
                  Study at the time that payment is due to the consultant, and Cottonwood Heights
                  will pay the invoice within thirty (30) days from receipt of invoice.

        3. Services Performed in a Professional and Reasonable Manner. Sandy shall perform
project management in connection with the Study, if there is any, in a professional, reasonable and
responsive manner, in reasonable consultation with Cottonwood Heights and in compliance with
all applicable laws. Subject to the foregoing, the exact nature of how the services were or are to be
performed, and any other matters incidental to providing services, shall remain with Sandy or its
consultant, as detennined by and between them.

       4. Termination.

               a. This Agreement shall begin on the Effective Date and shall tenninate in twelve
                  months or when all work related to the Study is fully completed and accepted
                  by the Parties, whichever is later. This Agreement is not renewable.

               b. Termination. Either party may, at its option, cancel this Agreement if the cost
                  of the Study will be in excess of $50,000.00 or a party reasonably disagrees
                  with the scope of work under the consultant's proposal, provided that notice of
                  such cancellation is made in confonnance with Section 7 of this Agreement
                  prior to the time that Sandy awards the contract for the Study to a consultant.


                                                 2
        5. Liability and Indemnification. Cottonwood Heights and Sandy are both governmental
entities under the Governmental Immunity Act of Utah, UTAH CODE ANN. § 63G-7-101 et seq.
(the "Act"). Consistent with the tenns of the Act, and as provided herein, it is mutually agreed that
each Party is responsible and liable for its own wrongful or negligent acts which are committed by
it or by its agents, officers, or employees. Neither Party waives any defenses otherwise available
under the Act; nor does any Party waive any limits of liability currently provided by the Act.


        6. Interlocal Cooperation Act Requirements. In satisfaction of the requirements of the
Interlocal Cooperation Act, and in connection with this Agreement, the Parties agree as follows:

               a. This Agreement shall be approved by each Party pursuant to Section 11-13-
                  202.5 of the hlterlocal Cooperation Act;

               b. This Agreement shall be reviewed as to proper form and compliance with
                  applicable law by a duly authorized attorney on behalf of each Party, pursuant
                  to Section 11-13-202.5 of the Interlocal Cooperation Act;

               c. A duly executed original counterpart of this Agreement shall promptly be filed
                  with the keeper of records of each Party, pursuant to Section l l -13-209 of the
                  Interlocal Cooperation Act;

               d. Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Agreement, each Party shall
                  be responsible for its own costs of any action taken pursuant to this Agreement,
                  and for any budgeting and financing of such costs; and

               e. No separate legal entity is created by the tenns of this Agreement. To the extent
                  that this Agreement requires administration other than as set forth herein, it shall
                  be administered by a joint board consisting of the City Manager of Cottonwood
                  Heights and the Mayor of Sandy, or their designees, with each member of the
                  joint board to have one vote. No real or personal prope1ty shall be acquired
                  jointly by the Parties because of this Agreement.

        7. Notices. Any notice required to be given hereunder shall be deemed sufficient and
complete two days after it has been emailed and either (a) hand delivered or (b) sent via 2-day
courier with tracking to:

                       Cottonwood Heights: City Engineer
                                           Email: mshipp@ch.utah.gov
                                           Cc: bnelsen@ch.utah.gov
                                           6579 South 3000 East
                                           Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121

                       Copy to:               Wm. Shane Topham
                                              Topham Legal
                                              wst@tophamlegal.com
                                              4930 Fairview Drive
                                              Holladay, UT 84117
                                                  3
                       Sandy City:             Sandy City Public Works Director
                                               Email: rkump@sandy.utah.gov
                                               Cc: ihooper@sandy.utah.gov
                                               8775 S. 700 W.
                                               Sandy, Utah 84070

                       Copy to:                Sandy City Attorney's Office
                                               jkesler@sandy.utah.gov
                                               10000 Centennial Parkway, Suite 301
                                               Sandy, UT 84070

        8. Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Utah
both as to interpretation and performance.

        9. Resolution of Claims and Disputes. In any action brought to enforce the terms of this
Agreement, the Parties agree that the appropriate venue shall be the Third Judicial District Court
in and for Salt Lake County, Utah.

        10. Entire Agreement/Amendment. This Agreement contains the entire agreement
between the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof, and no statements, promises, or
inducements made by either Party or agents for either Party that are not contained in this written
Agreement shall be binding or valid; and this Agreement may not be enlarged, amended, modified,
or altered except in a writing signed by the Parties which shall be (a) approved as required by
Section 11-13-202.5 of the Interlocal Cooperation Act. (b) executed by a duly authorized official
of each of the Parties, (c) submitted to an attorney for each Party that is authorized to represent
said Party for review as to proper form and compliance with applicable law, pursuant to Section
11-13-202.5 of the Interlocal Act, and the execution by each respective attorney, and (d) filed with
the keeper of the records of each Party.

        11. Term of Agreement. This Agreement shall take effect immediately upon the
completion of the following: (a) its approval as required by Section 11-13-202.5 of the Interlocal
Cooperation Act, (b) the execution of this Agreement by a duly authorized official of each of the
Parties, (c) the submission of this Agreement to an attorney for each Party who is authorized to
represent said Party for review as to proper fonn and compliance with applicable law pursuant to
Section 11-13-202.5 of the Interlocal Act, and the approval of each respective attorney, and (d) the
filing of a copy of this Agreement with the keeper of records of each Party. This Agreement shall
tenninate twelve (12) months after the execution of this Agreement as set forth herein, provided
that Cottonwood Heights shall have made payment in full to Sandy pursuant to Section 2 above;
otherwise, this Agreement shall terminate one (1) month after Sandy receives payment in full as
provided in Section 2 above. Except as otherwise provided herein, there is no pennissible method
or methods to be employed to accomplish the partial or complete termination of this Agreement.

        12. Severability. If any provision hereof shall be held or deemed to be or shall, in fact, be
inoperative or unenforceable as applied in any case in any jurisdiction or in all jurisdictions, or in
all cases because it conflicts with any other provision or provisions hereof or any constitution or
statute or rule of public policy, or for any other reason, such circumstances shall not have the effect
                                                     4
of rendering the prov1s10n 111 question inoperative or unenforceable in any other case or
circwnstance, or of rendering any other provision or provisions herein contained invalid,
inoperative, or unenforceable to any extent whatever. The invalidity of any one or more phrases,
sentences, clauses, or paragraphs herein contained, shall not affect the remaining portions hereof,
or any part thereof.

       13. No Separate Legal Entitv. No separate legal entity is created by this Agreement.

       14. Additional Provisions. The following provisions also are integral to this Agreement:

        (a) Titles and Captions. All section or subsection titles or captions herein are for
convenience only. Such titles and captions shall not be deemed part of this Agreement and shall in
no way define, limit, augment, extend or describe the scope, content or intent of any pa1t or parts
hereof.

        (b) Pronouns and Plurals. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun used herein
shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine or neuter fonns, and the singular form of
nomis, pronouns and verbs shall include the plurals and vice versa.

       (c)Applicable Law. The provisions of this Agreement shall be governed by and construed
in accordance with the laws of the state of Utah.

        (d) Integration. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties
pertaining to the subject matter hereof, and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings
pertaining thereto.

       (e) Time. Time is the essence hereof.

        (f) Survival. All agreements, covenants, representations, and warranties contained herein
shall survive the execution of this Agreement and shall continue in full force and effect throughout
the tenn of this Agreement.

        (g) Waiver. No failure by either Party to insist upon the strict perfonnance of any covenant,
duty, agreement, or condition of this Agreement or to exercise any right or remedy consequent
upon a breach thereof shall constitute a waiver of any such breach or ofsuch or any other covenant,
agreement, term, or condition. Any Party may, by notice delivered in the manner provided in this
Agreement, but shall be under no obligation to, waive any of its rights or any conditions to its
obligations hereunder, or any duty, obligation, or covenant of any other Party. No waiver shall
affect or alter the remainder of this Agreement, but each and every other covenant, agreement,
term, and condition hereof shall continue in full force and effect with respect to any other then
existing or subsequently occurring breach.

       (h) Rights and Remedies. The rights and remedies of the Parties hereto shall not be mutually
exclusive, and the exercise of one or more of the provisions of this Agreement shall not preclude
the exercise of any other provision hereof.

       (i) Attornev Fees. If any action, suit, or proceeding is brought by a Party hereto with respect
to a matter or matters covered by this Agreement, all costs and expenses of the prevailing Party

                                                  5
incident to such proceeding, including reasonable attorneys' fees, shall be paid by the non-
prevailing Party.

       (i) Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of
which shall be deemed an original, and all of which together shall constitute one and the same
instrument.

        (k) Cumulative Remedies. The rights and remedies of the Parties hereto shall be constmed
cwnulatively, and none of such rights and remedies shall be exclusive of, or in lieu or limitation
of, any other right, remedy or priority allowed by law.

        (1) No Agency. Agents, employees, or representatives of a Party shall not be deemed to be
agents, employees, or representatives of the other Party.


         [The remainder of this page is intentionally left blank. Signature page follows.]




                                                 6
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Sandy City caused this Agreement to be signed and attested by the
Mayor of Sandy City, or her designee; and the City of Cottonwood Heights, by resolution of its
Council, caused this Agreement to be signed by the Mayor or his designee.


                                            COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS


                                            By: - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
                                                 Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor

ATTEST:



Tiffany Janzen, City Recorder


Approved as to Fonn and Legality:


By: - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
    Wm. Shane Topham, City Attorney

Date: January 6, 2026


                                            SANDY CITY




                                            By: - - - -- -- - -- - - - - - -
                                                 Mayor Monica Zoltanski or her Designee

ATTEST:


City Recorder


Approved as to Fonn and Legality:


By: - - - - - - - - - - - -
     Attorney Representing Sandy City

Date: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __


                                               7
                       " ' - 0--.J( ~ ) I

                           Cottonwood Heights
                           Ci1y bm,vm 1/,e r.inJOIII




                         Attachment 9
                      Resolution 2026-05
By this resolution, the council will approve the city's entry into
  an interlocal cooperation agreement whereunder Salt Lake
 County will provide certain aerial imagery for use by various
                        city departments.
                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                   RESOLUTION NO. 2026-05

        A RESOLUTION APPROVING ENTRY INTO AN INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT
                WITH SALT LAKE COUNTY FOR AERIAL IMAGERY

        WHEREAS, the Interlocal Cooperation Act, UTAH CODE ANN. §11-13-101 et. seq. (the
"Jnterlocal Cooperation Act"), provides that any two or more public agencies may enter into
agreements with one another for joint or cooperative action following the adoption of an
appropriate resolution by the governing body of each participating public agency; and

       WHEREAS, Salt Lake County (the "County") and the city of Cottonwood Heights (the
"City") are public agencies for purposes of the Interlocal Cooperation Act; and

        WHEREAS, the County has entered mto an agreement with Pictometry International
Corp. for high-resolution orthogonal aerial photographs of certain areas of the County, under
which the County will own and be entided to share such imagery data with other governmental
entities; and

        WHEREAS, the County has offered to make such imagery data (the "Services") availablie
to the City; and

       WHEREAS, the City d.esires trhe Services; and

        WHEREAS, the County has presented to the City, for its review and appmval, an
interlocal cooperation agreement between the County and the City (the "Agreement") wheretmder
the County would provide the Services to the City on the tenns and conditions specified in the
Agreement; and

       WHEREAS, the City's municipal council (the "Council") met in regular session on 6
January 2026 to consider, among other things, approving the City's entry into the Agreement; and

       WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed the form of the Agreement, a photocopy of which
is annexed hereto; and

       WHEREAS, the city attorney of the City has approved the form of the Agreement as
required by UTAH CODE ANN.§ 11 -13-202.5(3); and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has detenuined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to approve the City's entry into
the Agreement as proposed;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights that the attached Agreement be, and hereby is, approved, and that the City's mayor and
recorder are authorized and directed to execute and deliver the Agreement on behalf of the City.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-05 , shall take effect immediately upon passage.
     PASSED AND APPROVED this 6th day of January 2026.


ATTEST:                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __               By:
                                               ----------------
     Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                  Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                         VOTING:

                                         Gay Lynn Bennion            Yea_Nay_
                                         Matt Holton                 Yea_Nay_
                                         Suzanne Hyland              Yea_Nay_
                                         Shawn E. Newell             Yea_Nay_
                                         Ellen Birrell               Yea_Nay_

     DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 6th day of January 2026.

     RECORDED this _ day of January 2026.




                                           2
                                                    County Contract No. -     - - -- - - -
                                                    District Attorney No. - - -- --    --
                      INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
                                    Between
                              SALT LAKE COUNTY
                                      And
                             COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

       THIS INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") is made and
entered into this i day of December 2025, by and between SALT LAKE COUNTY, a body
corporate and politic of the State of Utah (the "Comity"), and the city of COTTONWOOD
HEIGHGTS, a municipal corporation of the State of Utah (the "City"). The County and the City
are sometimes referred to as the "Parties".

                                           RECITALS

       WHEREAS, the County entered into an agreement with Pictometry International Corp. to
obtain oblique imagery ("Oblique Image1y)" and high-resolution orthogonal ("Orthorectified
Imagery") aerial photographs of certain areas of Salt Lake County (the "Pictometry Agreement");
and

        WHEREAS, pursuant to the Pictometry Agreement, the County owns the Orthorectified
Imagery and has the right to grant access to the Oblique Imagery through licenses provided through
the Pictometry Agreement that can be shared with other municipal county and state government
agencies in the County; and

        WHEREAS, the County, for and on behalf of the Salt Lake County Surveyor's Office
("Surveyor") and the Salt Lake County Assessor's Office ("Assessor"), and the City desire to enter
into this Agreement, providing the City with access to aerial photography available under the
Pictometry Agreement; and

       WHEREAS, the City is willing to acquire access to the aerial photography subject to the
tenns of this Agreement; and

        WHEREAS, the County and the City are governmental entities and authorized pursuant to
the Utah Interlocal Cooperation Act, Utah Code Ann. §11-13-l 0 l et seq. (the "Interlocal Act") to
enter into agreements for the joint cooperation of the Parties for the benefit of their residents;

       NOW, THEREFORE, the County and the City agree as follows:

l.     Project.

        A. The County hereby grants the City a limited license for a web service of the imagery
as well as hard-copy images to use natural color Orthorectified Image1y at 7.5 cm (3 in.) and 22.5
cm (9 in.) resolution for all areas within its geographical boundaries.
        B.     Electronic files of Orthorectified Imagery will be provided to the City by the County
on December 8, 2025 or within thirty days after the County obtains the Orthorectified Imagery
from Pictometry International Corp., whichever occurs last. The City acknowledges that the
availability of Orthorectified Imagery and Oblique Imagery is subject to delivery under the
Pictometry Agreement and agrees that delays in acquiring the imagery occurring through no fault
of the County will not be a basis for termination of this Agreement or damages.

2.     Compensation.

        A.     The City shall pay County the $130.00 per square mile for the Orthorectified
Imagery obtained from the County through the Surveyor. The City's geographical boundary
consists of approximately 9 .3 8 square miles and is depicted on Exhibit A. The total payment for the
Orthorectified Imagery is $1,219.40. City shall tender any required payment in full in order to
receive delivery of the electronic files containing the Orthorectified Imagery.

3.     Ownership.

        A.      Orthorectified Imagery. The Parties agree that the Orthorectified Imagery is the
County's protected intellectual property, and the County owns and controls the use of the
Orthorectified Imagery. The City may use the Orthorectified Imagery only as authorized by this
Agreement and only be used by the City for City purposes. The City shall not share or distribute
this data with other private or public entities without specific written consent from the County.

        B.      Oblique Imagery. Use of the license to access the Oblique Imagery, if applicable, is
subject to the terms and conditions of the Pictometry Agreement.

4.    Duration and Termination,

       A.     This Agreement shall take effect upon its full execution and delivery and shall
 terminate on June 30, 2026 unless an extension is agreed to in writing. The Parties will negotiate
 a new compensation amount and amend Section 2 as pait of any extension.

        B.       Either Party may terminate this Agreement for convenience at any tin1e by giving
 at least thirty (30)-days prior written notice to the other Party of such termination.

       C.      The County may also suspend or terminate this Agreement, in whole or in part, by
 giving at least seven (7)-days prior written notice to the City if the City materially fails to comply
 with any term of this Agreement, or with any of the rules, regulations or provisions referred to
 herein; and the County may declare the City ineligible for any further participation in the
 County's imagery contracts, in addition to other remedies as provided by law.

       D.     In the event of any tennination for convenience by the City or termination for cause
by the County, all Orthorectified Imagery files shall be removed and/or deleted from the City's
computers and servers.

5.     No Separate Legal Entity. This Agreement does not create a separate legal entity.



                                                  2
6.      Liability and Indemnification. Both Parties are governmental entitles under the Utah
Governmental Immunity Act, Title 63G, Chapter 7, Utah Code Ann., 1953, as amended (the
"Immunity Act"). Consistent with the terms of the Immunity Act, it is mutually agreed that each
Party is responsible and liable for its own wrongful or negligent acts which it commits, or which
are committed by its agents, officials, or employees. Neither party waives any defenses otherwise
available under the Imrmmity Act.

7.      Notice. Any notice required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be deemed sufficient
if given by a communication in writing and shall be deemed to have been received (a) upon personal
delivery or actual receipt thereof, or (b) within two days after such notice is deposited in the United
States Mail, postage prepaid, and certified and addressed to the Parties as set forth below:

               Cotmty:                 Salt Lake County Mayor
                                       200 I South State Street, N2- l 00
                                       PO Box 144575
                                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114-4575

                       And             Salt Lake County Surveyor
                                       2001 South State Street, N 1-400
                                       PO Box 144575
                                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114-4575

               City:                   Cottonwood Heights
                                       2277 E. Bengal Blvd
                                       Cottonwood Heights, UT 8412 l

8.      Termination. The County may terminate this Agreement for an "Event of Default" as
defined, upon written notice from the Com1ty to the City as provided for in paragraph 7 of this
Agreement. As used in this Agreement, the tenn "Event of Default" means: (a) the City fails to
make any payment herein when the same becomes due and such failure continues for a period of
30 (thirty) days after written notice or (b) the City fails to perform any of its material obligations
and such failure continues for a period of 30 (thirty) days after written notice.

9.      Miscellaneous Provisions. It is mutually agreed and understood by and between the Parties
that:

        A.    Agents, employees, or representatives of each Party shall not be deemed to be the
agents, employees or representatives of the other.

         B.    This Agreement contains the entire agreement between the Parties, with respect to
the subject matter hereof, and no statements, promises, or inducements made by either Party or
agents for either Party that are not contained in this written Agreement shall be binding or valid;
and this Agreement may not be enlarged, modified, or altered except in writing, and signed by the
Parties.



                                                  3
       C.      As required by Section 11-13-207 of the Interlocal Act, the Parties agree that the
cooperative undertaking under this Agreement shall be administered by a joint board consisting of a
designee of the County and a designee of the City. The County designates Lindsy Hales Bentley its
as representative to such joint board to assist in the management of this Agreement. The City
designates Jim Spung as its representative to such joint board to assist in the management of this
Agreement. The representatives shall have no control over the means, methods, techniques or
procedures employed in the services of this Agreement.

       D.      This Agreement may be executed in counterparts by the City and the County.

       E.      Amendments may be proposed at any time during the period of performance by either
Party and shall become effective upon signing by both Parties. No change to this Agreement shall be
binding unless and until reduced to writing and signed by duly authorized officials of both Parties.

        F.     If any provision hereof shall be held or deemed to be or shall, in fact, be inoperative or
unenforceable as applied in any particular case in any jurisdiction or in all jurisdictions, or in all cases
because it conflicts with any other provision or provisions hereof or any constitution or statute or rule
or public policy, or for any other reason, such circumstances shall not have the effect of rendering the
provision in question inoperative or unenforceable in any other case or circumstance, or of rendering
any other provision or provisions hereof invalid, inoperative, or unenforceable to any extent whatever.
The invalidity of any one or more phrases, sentences, clauses, or paragraphs herein contained shall not
affect the remaining portions hereof, or any part thereof.

       G.      Nothing in this Agreement creates any enforceable rights in third parties.

       H.      Each Party agrees to follow the records retention schedule required by law.

10.  Additional lnterlocal Act Requirements. In satisfaction of the requirements of the Interlocal
Cooperation Act, and in connection with this Agreement, the Parties agree as follows:

       A.       This Agreement shall be approved by each Party pursuant to Section l l-13-202.5 of the
Interlocal Act;

       B.       This Agreement shall be reviewed as to proper fom1 and compliance with applicable
law by a duly authorized attorney on behalf of each Party, pursuant to Section 11-13-202.5 of the
Interlocal Act;

       C.      A duly executed original counterpart of this Agreement shall be filed with keeper of
records of each Party, pursuant to Section l l-13-209 of the Interlocal Act;

      D.      Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, each Party shall be responsible for its
own costs of any action taken pursuant to this Agreement, and for any financing of such costs;

        E.      No real or personal property will be acquired, held, or disposed of in this cooperative
undertaking. To the extent that a Party acquires, holds, or disposes of any real or personal property for
use in the joint or cooperative undertaking contemplated by this Agreement, such Party shall do so in
the same manner that it deals with other property of such Party.




                                                    4
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have subscribed their names and seals the day and
year first above written.

                                         SALT LAKE COUNTY


                                         By Mayor Jennifer Wilson or Designee

APPROVED AND AGREED TO:
SALT LAKE COUNTY SURVEYOR


By _ _ _ __ __ _ __ _
   Bradley E. Park
   County Surveyor

Reviewed as to Form and Legality:


By
     Deputy District Attorney


ATTEST:                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS


By: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __                 By: - - -- - - - - - - - - - --
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                 Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor

Reviewed as to fonn and legality: - - - - - - - -- - -- -
                                  Wm. Shane Topham, City Attorney




                                            5
                                                                               Exhibit A
                                                                         Geographical Boundaries
l2S1E,18                   2S1E, 17                      2S1E,16                  2S1E, 15
- - ---                                                                                                       -2S1E,14
                                                                                                                -          -,-                       251E,13        2S2E,18
                                      - -77-
                                                                                                   I
                                                                          ~




                                                          E 55005                             _ I
l2S1E,19               u2S1E ,20                          2S1E,21                 2 S1E,22                     251E23                               2S1E,24


           "412
                North Union
                    Fort
                                                                                                   I                             I                     --             ~


- -                                            J
                                                     I     e noo s
                                                                                          amDM11,<XXl
                                                                                          HEIGHTI _!Y
 2S1E,30                   2S1E,29                       2S1E,28                   2S1E ,27                    2S1E,26                              2SlE,25
                           South Union                                                                                                                                :?SZE,10




                                                                         +-
                               Fort
              I
                                                                Little                                                           l             }'
                                                                                                                                              ,;;
             +                                   --r--
                                                               H@lght
                                                                     -                             ~




                                                                                                                                                    ,,L
                                                                                                                                          /:
                                                                                                                                         :!
                                                     I                                                                               ~

 2.SlE,31                  2S1E,32
                                                     I
                                                         2S1E,33     I    I
                                                                                                 2S1Er 342S1E,35             ~·
                                                                                                                         Wautd       ~

                                                                                                                                                                    252E,31
ncty Woods
                                                     I
                                                     I                                         'l;o   ( hlb
                                                                                                  'i'"••
                                                                                               ( O&m

e er Avt




                                                                                                          -I
                                                                          I                                                      I

lso s
                                                                                                                                                         - --
                                                                                                                                 I
[~o,
     E 8800 5                         Schneit.C, I
                                      Pl!bblebrock
                                      ---                                                                                                                       J,JJ 8UU7,




                                                                              -..::~~
                                                                              McunUl ln
                                                               ,04                                                                                                    352E,06
                     =I Municipalities                                                                         3S1E,01                          3S1E;Ol
                                                                                                                                      210
                      -       3 Inch




ti t White
                            3S1E,08
                                                                          I       --io.


                                                                                                              3S1E, 11
                                                                                                                         7           \ lt.- -3S1E 12
                                                         3S1E,09              a:>,1014.lglo                                                                         3S2E,07
                                         Ed9@mont
                                                                          BOOS
                                                                                                                                                       ""




                                                                                          6
                      Cottonwood Heights
                      CttJ INtUY(II ,h, (llflJOIII




                    Attachment 10
                 Resolution 2026-06
 This resolution will approve and ratify the manager's
appointment of Lucas Manning to the city's arts council.
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                  RESOLUTION NO. 2026-06

                    A RESOLUTION CONSENTING TO AN APPOINTMENT
                     TO THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS ARTS COUNCIL

        WHEREAS, section 2.140.401 of the COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE (the "Code")
establishes the "Cottonwood Heights Arts Council" (the "Arts CounciI") for the city of
Cottonwood Heights (the "City"); and

     WHEREAS, Code §2.l40.403(B) provides that the Arts Council shall consist ofup to 13
members who are City residents, who may be from geographically diverse parts of the City, and
who may be selected to assure adequate representation of each of the various artistic disciplines;
and

       WHEREAS, Code §2.140.104 provides that members of the Arts Council shall be
appointed and removed by the city manager (the " Manager'') with advice and consent of the city
c0tmcil (the " Council") to staggered three-year tenns, so that the terms of office of approximately
one-third of the members expire each year; and

      WHEREAS, the Manager has appointed Lucas Manning to the Arts Council to fill a
vacancy and has requested that the Council give its advice and consent to such appointment; and

       WHEREAS, the Council met on 6 January 2026 to, among other things, (a) consider the
appointment to tl1e Arts Council specified above; and (b) ratify and consent to the current
composition of membership of the Arts Council; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to consent to the foregoing
appointment to the Arts Council as proposed by the Manager and to ratify the current composition
of the Arts Council;

         NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Cottonwood Heights city council that
the Council hereby (a) consents to the appointment to the Alts Council specified above; and (b)
ratifies and gives advice and consent to the status of the following individuals as all the current
members of the Arts Council as of the date of this resolution for the terms of office set forth
opposite each name:

                                                         Term Expires

       Cheryl Glenn                                     1 February 2026
       Michelle Muirbrook                               1 February 2026
       Susie Yanling Shi                                l February 2026
       Laura Paulsen Howe                               l February 2026

       Sirima Atikul                                    1 February 2027
       Abigail Eyre                                     1 Febrnary 2027
     Ciara Powers (Vice-Chair)                      I February 2027

     Sharon Daurelle                                I February 2028
     Laura Garcia (Chair)                           1 February 2028
     Brinley Wallace                                1 February 2028
     Lucas Manning                                  I February 2028

     This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-06, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

     PASSED AND APPROVED effective 6 January 2026.


ATTEST:                                   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By: _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __                   By:----------------
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder               Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                          VOTING:

                                          Gay Lynn Bennion             Yea_Nay_
                                          Matt Holton                  Yea_Nay_
                                          Suzanne Hyland               Yea_Nay_
                                          Shawn E. Newell              Yea_Nay_
                                          Ellen BiITell                Yea _ Nay_

     DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 6th day of January 2026.

     RECORDED this _ day of January 2026.




                                             2
