                                                                            ~               ;f-, '
                                                                             ~~~;
                                                                              c,,, ~,....,~..vood
                                                                                              ,Jv , ..
                                                                                                       Heights
                                                                                                  ,.,.,u




Meeting Requested:       Business Meeting [gj   Work Session ~   Other D
Public Hearing Needed?   Yes D No ~ Undetermined D
                         Denied D Approved IZI Con inued □
CM Approval or Denial
                         CM Signature:--~



Appendix I -Agendas for January 20, 2026, City Council Work Session, CDRA and
Business Meeting

Appendix 2 - Meeting Minutes for City Council Meetings on 1/06/2026

Appendix 3 - Staff Report/ Utah Renewable Communities SheldonHowa

Appendix 4 - Staff Report/General Plan Presentation and Discussion with City Council and
Planning Commission Jim Spung

Appendix 5 - Staff Report/City Council Board Committee Assignments Discussion Mayor
Bennion

Appendix 6 - Staff Report/Discussion ofUDOT's Concurrence Request Concerning
Temporary Closure of the Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail Underpass During Construction of
UDOT's Planned Mobility Hub Mayor Bennion

Appendix 7 - Staff Report/Action Items Shane Topham


COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND RENEWAL AGENCY
Attachment 1 - Resolution 2026-01


CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
Attachment 1 - Resolution 2026-07
Attachment 2 - Resolution 2026-08
Attachment 3 - Resolution 2026-09
                     Cottonwood Heights
                     C11y brtwrm the rtlll)'OIIJ




                    Appendix 1

                  January 20, 2026

City Council Work Session, CDRA and Business Meeting
                       Agendas
                                                    r.---
                                                 1i1,'-:.,    I


                                                 wood Heights
                                       City bctrvun the rn11yo11s


                   NOTICE OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
               JOINT PLANNING COMMISSION I CITY COUNCIL
                        WORK SESSION AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights City Council will hold a Work Session at
approximately 4:00 p.m., or soon thereafter, on Tuesday, January 20, 2026, in the Cottonwood
Heights City Council Work Room located at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood Heights,
Utah. Part of the Work Session will be conducted jointly with the city's Planning Commission
as shown below. The public may remotely view the open portions of the meeting through live
broadcast by connecting to https://www.voutube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams, the city's
YouTube channel.

4:00 p.m.     1.     WELCOME -Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion

              2.     CITY COUNCIL REVIEW OF BUSINESS MEETING
                     AGENDA
                     Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion (I 0-15 min.)

              3.     STAFF REPORT TO CITY COUNCIL AND PLANNING
                     COMMISSION
                     (Sta.ff will provide information to the city council and the planning commission,
                     respond to questions and facilitate discussion concerning this agenda item).

                   a. Utah Renewable Communities Discussion.
                      Planner III Sheldon Howa (30 min.)
                   b. General Plan Presentation and Discussion with City Council and Planning
                      Commission.
                      Community and Economic Development Director Jim Spung (100 min.)
                   c. Excuse Planning Commission
                   d. City Council Board Committee Assignments Discussion
                      Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion (15 min.)
                   e. Discussion of UDOT's Concurrence Request Concerning Temporary
                      Closure of the Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail Underpass During
                      Construction of UDOT's Planned Mobility Hub.
                      Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion (10 min.)

              4.     REVIEW OF CALENDARS AND UPCOMING EVENTS*
                    a. Lunar New Year Celebration - Saturday, February 7, 2026, from 10:00
                       a.m. to 12-noon at City Hall
                    b. Cozy Paint Night - Friday, February 20, 2026, from 6:00 p.m. to 8:00
                       p.m. at City Hall
     c. The Jazz Ambassadors of The United States Army Field Band -
        Thursday, March 19, 2026, from 7:00 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. at Butler Middle
        School (Tickets Required, Free Event, See City Website for additional
        infonnation)

     *For more information, please visit CHUTAHGOV and click Community
      Calendar


s.   POSSIBLE   CLOSED    MEETING   TO   DISCUSS
     LITIGATION; REAL PROPERTY PURCHASE OR
     LEASE; THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
     COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH
     OF AN INDIVIDUAL; AND/OR ANOTHER PERMITTED
     PURPOSE UNDER UCA 52-2-205

6.   ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION
                                                 Cottonwood Heights
                                                 City benveen the cn11y o11s


                NOTICE OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND
               RENEWAL AGENCY BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights Community Development and Renewal
Agency will hold a Business Meeting beginning at or about 6:45 p.m. on Tuesday, January
20, 2026, in the Cottonwood Heights City Council Work Room located at 2277 East Bengal
Boulevard, Cottonwood Heights, Utah. The public may remotely view the open portions of the
meeting through live broadcast by connecting to the city's YouTube channel:
https://www.voutube.com/(@CottonwoodHeights/streams.

         1.0      WELCOME - CEO Jared Gerber
        2.0       ACTION ITEMS
        2.1      Consideration of Resolution 2026-01 Electing Officers and Appointing Staff.
                 (By this resolution the board will elect officers and appoint stafffor the CDRA due to
                 recent changes in the city's elected officers).

        3.0       POSSIBLE CLOSED MEETING TO DISCUSS LITIGATION,
                  PURCHASE OR LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY, THE
                  CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL COMPETENCE OR
                  PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH OF AN INDIVIDUAL,
                  OR ANY OTHER PERMITTED PURPOSE FOR CLOSED
                  MEETINGS UNDER UTAH CODE ANN. 52-4-205 OR
                  OTHER APPLICABLE LAW.
        4.0       APPROVAL OF MINUTES
                  The minutes of this meeting will be approved through the following process: The Agency's
                  secretary promptly will circulate a draft copy of the minutes to the Board members, who then
                  will have three business days to provide any proposed corrections to the secretary. The
                  secretary will then circulate a revised draft ofthe minutes to the Board members, and the same
                  review process will continue until such time as no corrections to the draft minutes are received
                  within the three business days review period, whereupon that draft of the minutes will be
                  deemed approved and will become the final minutes ofthe meeting.


         5.0      ADJOURN

On Wednesday, January 14, 2026, a copy ofthe foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the front foyer
ofthe Cottonwood Heights City Offices, Cottonwood Heights, Utah. A copy ofthis notice was sent to the Salt Lake
Tribune and Deseret News, newspapers ofgeneral circulation in the city, by the Office of the City Recorder. The
agenda was also posted on the City 's website at www.ch.utah.gov and the Utah Public Notice website at
/,ftp:llpmn.utal,. goi '.

DATED this 14th day of January 2026                                            Tiffany Janzen, Age11cy Secretary

The city building/or this meeting is accessible. In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, people with
disabilities may make requests for reasonable accommodation or assistance by notifying the City Recorder at 801-
944-7021 or rewrder(a ch.11tah.g01 ·, at least two business days before the meeting, or by calling Relay Utah at 711.
                                          Cottonwood          Heights
                                          City between the cnnyo11s


            NOTICE OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
                      BUSINESS :MEETING AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights City Council will hold a Business Meeting
beginning at approximately 7:00 p.m., or soon thereafter, on Tuesday, January 20, 2026, in the
Cottonwood Heights City Council Chambers located at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood
Heights, Utah. The public may remotely view the open portions of the meeting through live
broadcast by connecting to https://www.voutube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams, the
city's YouTube channel.
Persons physically attending the meeting in the City Council Chambers may make verbal comments
to the City Council when invited to do so, after completing a speaker comment card. Citizen
comments may also be submitted in writing to the city recorder at citvrecorder@ch.utah.gov by
noon, on the meeting date. In the interest of time and those attending the meeting live, however,
submitted written comments will be entered into the record and distributed to the City Council,
but will not be read at the public meeting.
Civility and decorum should be applied in all discussions and debates. Difficult questions,
tough challenges to a point of view, and criticism of ideas and information are legitimate elements
of a free democracy in action. Public officials and the public are encouraged to refrain from making
belligerent, personal, impertinent, slanderous, threatening, abusive, or disparaging comments.

7:00 p.m.      1.0     WELCOME - Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion

               2.0     PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE

               3.0    CITIZEN COMMENTS
                      During each regular city council meeting (specifically excluding work sessions),
                      there will be a period not to exceed sixty minutes for citizen comment. " (Cottonwood
                      Heights Code ofOrdinances 2. 3 0.160 (B)) Persons physically attending the meeting
                      in the City Council Chambers may make verbal comments to the City Council when
                      invited to do so by the meeting chair. Persons attending the meeting remotely may
                      not make verbal comments to the City Council during the meeting. Persons attending
                      the meeting remotely, or who do not attend the meeting either physically or remotely,
                      are invited to submit written comments to the City Recorder before Noon. on the
                      meeting date. Written comments that are timely submitted will be admitted into the
                      record of the meeting and distributed to the City Council but will not be read at the
                      public meeting.

               4.0     RECOGNITION
               4.1     CHPD Promotions- CHPD Chief Robby Russo

               5.0     ACTION ITEMS
               5.1     Consideration of Resolution 2026-07 Awarding a Retiring Police Officer
                       His Badge and Approving His Purchase of a Police Fireann.
                          (Sgt. Dan Morzelewski is retiring from CHPD after 32 years of public service,
                          including 17 with CHPD. As is customary and as authorized by city code, by this
                          resolution the council will award Sgt. Morzelewski his badge and approve his
                          purchase ofhis sidearm).
                 5.2      Consideration of Resolution 2026-08 Ratifying Committee Assignments.
                          (By this resolution the council will ratify the assignments made by the mayor for
                          liaison coverage of various "outside" and "inside" committees and boards, as
                          contemplated by the council's internal policies and procedures).
                 5.3      Consideration of Resolution 2026-09 Approving a Temporary Occupancy
                          Concurrence Request by UDOT.
                          (UDOT has informed the city that the underpass from the Big Cottonwood Canyon
                          Trail to UDOT's planned mobility hub on the east side of Wasatch Blvd. must be
                          temporarily closed during construction of the proposed bus-only transitway from
                          the mobility hub to Big Cottonwood Canyon Road, and requested the city's written
                          concurrence that such project meets the criteria for application of the temporary
                          occupancy standards under 23 CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS Section
                          774.l 3(d)). This resolution will provide that concurrence).

                 6.0      CONSENTCALENDAR
                 6.1      Approval of the minutes for the City Council Work Session and Business
                          Meetings of January 6, 2026.

                 7.0      ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING

                                         PUBLIC COMMENT PROCEDURE
     During each City Council business meeting (specifically excluding work sessions), there will be a period
     minutes for citizen comment. (Code of Ordinances 2.30.1 60 (B)). Any person wishing to comment on any it
     on the agenda for public comment may address the City Council during the Public Comment period. Any p
     comment during the Public Comment period shall request recognition by the Mayor and upon recogniti
     microphone and state their name, state if they are a resident of Cottonwood Heights and either provide the·
     Council district; and then address the City Council. Any person wishing to comment shall limit their comment
     three (3) minutes unless more or less time is specified by the Mayor. Citizen groups who are present will be a
     spokesperson, who shall limit their comments to no more than five (5) minutes unless more or less time is specifi
     All comments shall be directed to the City Council. No person addressing the City Council during the comme
     allowed to comment more than once during that comment period. Speakers should not expect any debate or
     Mayor, City Council or City Staff during the meeting.
     The City Council may choose to limit the amount of time allotted to public comment on a specific issue. In such
     cases, special procedures for determining who will be allowed to speak and the order of such speakers will be
     determined by the Council. In the interest of time and those attending the meeting live, submitted written
     comments will be entered into the record, distributed to the City Council but not read at the public meeting.



On Wednesday, January 14, 2026, a copy ofthe foregoing notices was posted in conspicuous view in theji-ontfoyer of
the Cottonwood Heights City Offices, Cottonwood Heights, Utah. A copy ofthis notice was sent to the Salt Lake Tribune
and Deseret News, newspapers ofgeneral circulation in the city, by the Office ofthe City Recorder. The agendas were
also posted on the City's website at www.ch.utah.gov and the Utah Public Notice website at http://p11111.utah.eo,·.

DATED this 14th day of January 2026                   Tiffany Janzen, City Recorder

The city building for this meeting is accessible. In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, people with
disabilities may make requests for reasonable accommodation or assistance by notifying the City Recorder at 801-944-
7021 or recorder@ c/1. utah.g:o,·. at least two business days before the meeting, or by calling Relay Utah at 711.
                               i ~,
                    Cottonwood Heights
                    Cuy illruvm 1/,e r,111yo11s




                   Appendix 2

              MEETING MINUTES
City Council Work Session and Business Meeting for
                    1/06/2026
                    ( 1'\       I


           ottonwood Heights
         Cuy bnu't'm thr r,111Jl111S




        Appendix 3

     STAFF REPORT

Utah Renewable Communities

       Sheldon Howa
                                  Business Meeting D
                                 Yes D No ~ Undetermined D,,
                                  Denied □     Appro~~~·"7.
                                                        1,;-.a-,-□------------------1
 M Approval or Denial
                                 CM Signature:     ~ ?-77/,
Purpose
The purpose of this memo is to provide the City Council with a comprehensive overview of the Utah Renewable Communities (URC)
program, its legislative foundation, Cottonwood Heights' participation to date, and the anticipated next steps as the program
proceeds through the Utah Public Service Commission approval process. This memo summarizes the program's goals,
development timeline, financial commitments made by the City, and the potential implications for Rocky Mountain Power
customers in Cottonwood Heights should the City choose to adopt the URC Program Ordinance following PSC approval. It also
identifies required updates to the City's board representation on the URC governing body.

Background
What is Utah Renewable Communities?
During the 2019 General Session, the Utah State Legislature passed the Utah Community Renewable Energy Act (Act) , Utah State
Code §54-17-901 to §54-17-909 (later renamed the "Community Clean Energy Act" in 2024 ), creating a pathway for communities
to work together to establish a new clean energy program in partnership with Rocky Mountain Power (RMP), a subsidiary of
PacifiCorp, for residents and businesses in participating communities. Rules Governing the Community Renewable Energy Program
(Rules), Utah Administrative Code R746-314, were also adopted in 2019 by the Utah Public Service Commission (PSC) to implement
the Act. The Act and associated rules outlined a process whereby interested communities could work with RMP to develop a
Program Application that the utility could file with the PSC on behalf of those communities.

To pursue this opportunity, and as contemplated by the Act, 23 Utah communities established clean energy goals, taking the first
step towards participating in the effort to jointly design a program in partnership with RMP. Eighteen of the original 23 interested
communities continued participating by adopting the lnterlocal Cooperation Agreement Among Public Entities Regarding the
Community Renewable Energy Program, creating the Community Renewable Energy Agency (Agency), known informally as Utah
Renewable Communities (URC). Following a change to the enabling legislation in 2024 which removed the requirement that a
community establish a clean energy goal in order to be eligible to participate, one additional community, Midvale City, joined the
Agency in 2024, bringing the number of participating communities to 19. The Agency has been engaged in program design
negotiations with RMP since its inception in 2021.

What is the goal of URC and how would this work?
The primary goal of URC is to make net-100% clean electricity available to homes and businesses in participating communities by
2030. This goal will be accomplished by acquiring enough clean energy to match 100% of the energy consumed by program
participants on an annual basis, making it a "net-100%" goal. The clean energy counting towards the URC program is proposed to
come from both existing clean energy on the grid plus new clean energy projects specifically built to serve URC customers, likely at
about a 50/50 split between existing and new clean energy resources. These resources are and will be part of the PacifiCorp grid. As
noted previously, PacifiCorp is RMP's parent company whose grid serves six states, including Utah. The URC program is being
developed and will be implemented in collaboration with RMP, and all URC participants will remain RMP customers, and RMP will
continue to be required to provide reliable power to all customers, regardless of a customer's URC participation status.

Why develop this new clean energy option?
Participating Communities, as defined under the Act, are served by RMP- i.e., they do not have their own municipal utilities - and
their options for procuring clean energy resources are, therefore, limited. The URC program offers homes and businesses in our
community a new option for supporting clean energy. Furthermore, the program creates a unique opportunity to drive investment in
new clean energy at scale, since collectively URC members representabout25% of RM P's electricity sales in Utah, and in total, RMP
serves about 80% of the electric load in Utah.

Individual communities became involved in URC for several reasons. Some may have done so in response to constituent requests
for cleaner energy choices, including taking into consideration those who cannot afford or otherwise opt for distributed resources
like rooftop solar. Some URC members previously adopted clean energy or pollution reduction goals and saw expanded renewable
energy as a means of achieving them. Various motivations for developing the URC program were captured in the amended revised
draft Program Ordinance approved by the Agency Board in Resolution 25-02, including:
    •    Promoting the health, safety, and welfare of residents;
    •    Enhancing the economic well-being of Cottonwood Heights and its residents through prudent management of financial
         resources;
    •    Helping address concerns related to poor air quality and other environmental concerns due in part to the use offossil fuels;
    •    Capturing the benefits of advances in clean energy technology, which - in some cases - can be more cost-effective than
         traditional resources;
    •    Preserving the environment and protecting natural resources to support outdoor recreation as a key economic contributor;
    •    Responding to resident interest in environmental stewardship through initiatives and activities surrounding growth and
         development; and
    •    Supporting Cottonwood Heights existing sustainability actions and goals.

When did Cottonwood Heights get involved?
Cottonwood Heights joined URC in June of 2021 and subsequently made two financial contributions totaling $21,884.20 to the
Agency's budget, which is proportional to our community's population and electricity load. Cottonwood Heights financial
contribution provided 3.03% of the total $721,884.20 in funds collected through the CRE community membership fees (see
Attachments).

We have signed a UtiLityAgreement along with the other Participating Communities in time to be included in Rocky Mountain Power's
initial Program Application filing in January 2025. After the PSC approves the program, we will have a final decision as to whether to
adopt the Program Ordinance. Doing so would bring the approved program to all homes and businesses within our community.

If Cottonwood Heights moves forward adopting the URC Program, what will that mean for Rocky Mountain Power customers in our
community?
If we adopt the Program Ordinance (more on the Ordinance below), upon program launch, all RMP customers in Cottonwood
Heights will be automatically enrolled with the choice to opt out as stipulated in the Act. A customer's desire to support and use
clean energy and the estimated impact on their bill will likely be factors influencing their decision to either remain in the URC
program or opt out. There will be no cost to opt out during an initial cancelation period of 90 days; after that, there will be a fee to
terminate participation.

Regarding bill impacts, it is the goal of the URC board that the average participating household's electric bill would increase by no
more than $3-4/month as a result of the program. To further safeguard against adverse energy cost impacts, the program includes
low-income customer provisions such as ongoing outreach and engagement, a bill credit to cover the monthly bill increase (of up to
$7 per month depending on the cost to participate), and waived termination fees for low-income customers who decide to opt out
later in the program. These low-income provisions will apply to customers enrolled in RMP's Schedule 3 Home Electric Lifeline Plan
(HELP), and the bill credit will be funded by URC customers who are not enrolled in RM P's Schedule 3 of up to $0.70 per month per
customer.

URC Program Development Updates
The Agency and sub-committees of the Agency Board (Communications, Low-Income Plan, and Program Design committees) have
been working diligently over the past years to support the development of the URC program, with RMP ultimately responsible for
filing an application with the PSC seeking program approval. The process for acquiring program resources is one of many details and
items required by the Act and Rules to be addressed in the program application. There was an early assumption that URC program
resources might be selected by "piggybacking" off an existing PacifiCorp solicitation. However, following the September 2023
suspension and subsequent April 2024 termination of PacifiCorp's systemwide All Source Request for Proposals , the Agency
moved forward developing its own solicitation process, and the Agency and RMP agreed that the program application would be filed
in two parts: first regarding a solicitation process, and second for the rest of the program (which itself was filed in two parts as
described below).

Program Solicitation
On November 19, 2024, RMP filed an Application for Approval of Solicitation Process with the PSC describing the proposed process
to solicit bids from clean energy developers (Docket 24-035-55. The PSC granted the application, clearing the way for URC to issue
a Request for Proposals (RFP) on May 22, 2025. Fifteen bids were initially received by the July 10 RFP deadline, one of which was
later withdrawn. From there, these bids were evaluated and scored by URC technical consultants, and an "initial short list" of six
projects was selected by URCforfurther evaluation by RMP. URC anticipates receiving the results of this analysis in December2025
and will use those results to help select one or more projects with which to negotiate agreements.

Program Application
On January 24, 2025, and June 4, 2025, RMP submitted parts I and 11, respectively, of a two-part Application to Implement
Community Clean Energy Program Authorized by the Community Clean Energy Act (Docket 25-035-06). As required by the Act, the
Program Application included, among other items, information about the customers within the boundaries of the participating
communities, projected rates under the proposed program, a Utility Agreement between each participating community and the
qualified electric utility (RMP), low-income plans for each community, a draft ordinance that establishes an eligible community's
participation in the program (which can only be considered for adoption by each community following approval of the application
by the PSC), and more. URC and its technical consultants filed testimony on July 18, 2025, and the deadline for testimony from all
other parties was October 10, 2025. Parties will now work through rounds of rebuttal and surrebuttal testimony.

The PSC held a public hearing for this docket on December 16, 2025, and a decision is anticipated as early as January 2026. If the
program is approved by the PSC, the 19 currently eligible communities will have 90 days following issuance of the PSC's approval
order to adopt the participation Program Ordinance in order to join the program. The Program Ordinance was developed through
close collaboration with URC members, including legal counsel representing several participating communities, as well as the
Agency's outside legal counsel. The draft Program Ordinance was most recently revised and approved by the Agency Board in
January 2025 through Resolution 25-02. While Cottonwood Heights will not be able to modify the overarching provisions of the
ordinance, it will be able to tailor certain elements to align with local code and community needs. As previously noted, the draft
participation Program Ordinance was included in the Program Application filing and remains subject to review by intervening parties
and the PSC.

It should be noted that the PSC retains final decision-making authority over the program. As a result, the program design may differ
from what has been proposed in the docket, and the PSC may require modifications to the Program Ordinance. The PSC may also
rule on issues that have not yet been fully resolved in the docket, including the valuation of program resources, the role of renewable
energy certificates (RECs), and how the estimated costs associated with launching the program will be allocated.

If the timelines for the Program Application unfold as expected, Cottonwood Heights could be in a position to consider the Program
Ordinance in Winter/Spring 2026 and see the URC program launch later in 2026.

Next Steps
Following approval of the Program Application by the PSC, which is anticipated in early 2026, the City of Cottonwood Heights will
have 90 days from the date of the PSC's approval order to determine whether to participate in the program by adopting the Program
Ordinance. If the City elects to adopt the ordinance, the final costforwhich the City would be responsible is reimbursement to Rocky
Mountain Power for the cost of issuing two rounds of mailed and/or online customer notices within city boundaries. Based on
guidance provided, the city should budget approximately $18,761.11 for these notification costs. All other costs associated with
program administration and program resources would be borne by participating customers.

Fiscal Impacts
If the City elects to adopt the Program Ordinance following PSC approval, the City would be responsible for reimbursing Rocky
Mountain Power for the cost of conducting two rounds of mailed and/or online notices to customers within city boundaries. The
estimated cost for these notification efforts is $18,761.11 (see attachments). No additional City funds are anticipated for ongoing
program administration or program resources, as all other costs would be borne by participating customers. This expense would
only be incurred if the City chooses to participate in the program and adopts the Program Ordinance within the PSC-mandated
timeframe.
Cottonwood Heights URC Board Members (re-appointments)
In January 2025, Mayor Weichers was appointed as the primary board representative for Cottonwood Heights, and Ian Harris was
designated as the alternate. Because MayorWeichers' board role is tied to his mayoral term, a new primary representative will need
to be appointed once his term concludes. In addition, since Ian Harris is no longer with the city, a new alternate must also be
selected.

RECOMMENDATION
Discussion item only.

ATTACHMENTS
 A. lnterlocal Agreement
  B. CRE Membership Fees
  C. Projected RMP Noticing Costs
  D. 2025 CRE Board Member Appointments
       Attachment - A
lnterlocal Agreement
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                   RESOLUTION NO. 2021-30

       A RESOLUTION APPROVING AN lNTERLOCAL AGREEMENT WITH VARIOUS
     JURISDICTIONS CONCERNING A COMMUNITY RENEWABLE ENERGY PROGRAM

         WHEREAS, in 2019, the Utah Legislature enacted the "Community Renewable Energy
Act," UTAH CODE ANN. 54-17-901 et seq. (the "Sustainability Acf'), which authorizes jurisdictions
to participate in a "community renewable energy program" filed by a qualified utility and approved
by the Utah Public Service Commission, whereunder the utility would provide electric service
from one or more "renewable energy sources" to end-use customers in the participating
communities; and

        WHEREAS, the lnterlocal Cooperation Act, UTAH CODE ANN. 11-13-101 et seq. (the
"lnterlocal Ad'), authorizes any two or more public agencies to enter into agreements with one
another for joint or cooperative action and to contract with each other to perform any governmental
service activity which each public agency entering into the contract is authorized by law to
perform; and

        WHEREAS, an interlocal cooperation agreement (the "Agreement") has been jointly
prepared whereunder the city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City") and various other participating
jurisdictions (collectively, the "Parties") would become participating communities in a community
renewable energy program under the Act (the "Program") on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Agreement; and

     WHEREAS, the Parties are public agencies for purposes of the Interlocal Act and are
empowered to enter into the Agreement;

        WHEREAS, on 15 June 2021, the City's city council (the "Council") met in regular
session to consider, among other things, authorizing the City to execute and deliver the Agreement;
and

       WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed the form of the Agreement, a photocopy of which
is annexed hereto; and

      WHEREAS, the City's city attorney has approved the form of the Agreement as required
by UTAH CODE ANN. §11-13-202.5(3); and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the City's residents to approve the City's entry into
the Agreement as proposed;

        NOW, THEREFORE, be it resolved by the city council of the city ofCottonwood Heights
that the Agreement is hereby approved and that the City's mayor and recorder are authorized and
directed to execute and deliver the Agreement and any related documents and instruments on
behalf of the City.
        This Resolution, assigned no. 2021 -30, shall ta.Ice effect immediately upon passage.

        PASSED AND APPROVED this 15th day of June 2021.


ATTEST:

                               (           r~~

By ----4_,_-=~~f------'---   -:a~

                                           y'   ,




                                                    ~
                                     0114-n,§:/:'
                                    "~~~J                OTING:

                                                        Michael J. Peterson         Yea ✓ Nay
                                                        Douglas Petersen            Yea ✓Nay ­
                                                        J. Scott Bracken          •Yea ✓Nay-
                                                        Tali C. Bruce             • Yea ✓Nay -
                                                        Christine Watson Mikell     Yea , Nay ~

        DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 15th day of June 2021.

        RECORDED this L[tlay of June 2021.




                                                          2
                                                                                          3-31-21



                INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
                AMONG PUBLIC ENTITIES REGARDING THE
               COMMUNITY RENEWABLE ENERGY PROGRAM


       Thjs Interlocal Cooperation Agreement ("Agreement") 1s made among those

public/governmental entities ("Listed Entities") listed on Schedule I who have executed this

Agreement and delivered the executed Agreement to the Secretary designated in Schedule 3

("Secretary"). Each of the Listed Entities that duly executes and delivers this Agreement and that

continues to indicate its intent to become a "Participating Community" as defined by Utah

Administrative Rule R746-314 ("Rules"), as adopted by the Utah Public Service Commission

("Commission"), is and will remain an "Eligible Community" (as defined by the Rules) and will

become a "Participating Community" (as defined by the Rules) upon satisfaction of all of the

requirements of Utah Code Ann.§ 54-17-902(10).

       This Agreement will become effective ("Effective Date") five calendar days after the date

that at least five Listed Entities have (i) executed and delivered this Agreement to the Secretary

and (ii) notified the Secretary that they agree to become Anchor Communities and will timely

make Anchor Payments, as defined in and required by Section 7 (each, an "Anchor Community").

Any Listed Entity may become a Party (as defined below) to this Agreement by executing and

delivering this Agreement to the Secretary at any time, whether before or after the Effective Date,

on or before January 31, 2022, or such other date as may be determined by the Community

Renewable Energy Board ("Participation Deadline"), with no financjal commitment prior to July

31, 2021. Each Listed Entity that desires to be a Party shall deliver an executed Agreement to the

Secretary with the name and contact information for such Listed Entity primary and alternate

Board Members. Each Listed Entity that also agrees to become an Anchor Community shall notify
                                                                                             3-31-21

the Secretary of the same and shall timely deliver its Anchor Payments to the Treasurer as specified

in Section 7. In the event any Anchor Community later determines to withdraw as a Party or as

an Anchor Community, Section 7.d. shall apply. For so long as a Listed Entity that executes and

delivers this Agreement as specified herein remains an Eligible Community or a Participating

Community, as applicable, and continues to make any payments required of it herein on and after

July 31, 2021 , it will individually be a "Party," and all collectively will be the "Parties," to this

Agreement.

                                            RECITALS

       A.      In 2019, the Utah State Legislature enacted H.B. 411 that was codified at Utah Code

Ann. § 54-17-901 et seq. and is known as the "Community Renewal Energy Act" ("Act").

       B.      The Act authorizes a community renewable energy program ("Program") to be

proposed in an application ("Application") to be filed by a qualified utility for approval by the

Commission. The qualified utility relevant to this Program is Rocky Mountain Power, an

unincorporated division of PacifiCorp, an Oregon Corporation (referred to herein as "RMP").

Upon Commission approval of the Program, RMP will be authorized to provide electric service

from one or more "renewable energy resources" as defined by the Act ("Renewable Resources")

to end-use customers within the Participating Communities who participate in the Program

("Participating Customers"). Each Listed Entity has adopted a resolution that establishes a goal

of a net 100% renewable energy supply for that community by 2030, and therefore is eligible to

become a Participating Community as contemplated by the Act.

       C.      The Act contemplates (as supplemented by the Rules) that the Parties will adopt a

governance agreement (which is this Agreement) and enter into an agreement with RMP ("Service

Agreement") which must provide, among other things, for (i) the payment by the Parties of the

costs associated with third-party expertise contracted by the Utah Division of Public Utilities and
                                                 2
                                                                                             3-31-21

the Utah Office of Consumer Services to assist with activities associated with the initial approval

of the Program, (ii) payment by the Parties oftbe costs of providing certain notices required by the

Act, (iii) determination of the obligations for payment of any termination charges associated with

the Program that are not paid by Participating Customers and not included in Commission-

approved utility rates for the Program to be paid by Participating Customers ("Program Rates"),

(iv) identification of any proposed replacement assets, and (v) proposed plans addressing low-

income programs and assistance.

       D.      On or about January 7, 2020, the Commission adopted the Rules to facilitate

implementation ofthe Program as contemplated by the Act. The Rules require the adoption by the

Parties of this governance Agreement to establish a decision-making process among the Parties to

ensure that the Parties will be able to reach a single joint decision on any necessary Program issues.

       E.      Each of the Listed Entities that executes this Agreement, as an Eligible Community

and a potential Participating Community, desires to enter into this governance Agreement as

contemplated by the Act and Rules.

       F.      The Listed Entities are all "public agencies" under the Interlocal Cooperation Act,

Utah Code Ann. § 11-13-101 et seq. ("Interlocal Cooperation Act") and are authorized to enter

into this Agreement for joint or cooperative action, and to form a Community Renewable Energy

Agency ("Agency") as contemplated herein.

       G.      The Parties have determined that it is mutually advantageous to enter into this

Agreement.

                                          AGREEMENT

       NOW THEREFORE, pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act, the Act and the Rules,

and in consideration of the mutual covenants and promises of the Parties set forth herein, the

Parties agree as follows to foster the legitimate interests of the Parties actively working together
                                                  3
                                                                                           3-31-21

to implement the Program pursuant to the Act and Rules for the mutual benefit of the Parties. The

Parties recognize that the ability to provide renewable energy options to their residents transcends

political jurisdictional boundaries within Utah and intergovernmental coordination is essential to

facilitate the efficient use of both public and private resources. The Parties therefore agree as

follows:

        1.      Purpose. The purpose of this Agreement is to establish the Agency and a decision-

making process for Program design, cost share allocation, resource solicitation, resource

acquisition, other Program issues and, as contemplated by the Act and Rules, to provide a means

of ensuring that the Parties will be able to reach a single joint decision on necessary Program

issues, and to implement the Program in their respective communities.

        2.      Governance and Administration of Agency. There is hereby created a governing

board of the Agency called the Community Renewable Energy Board ("Board"). All action taken

pursuant to this Agreement shall be governed and detennined by the Board, which is comprised

ofrepresentatives of the Parties.



                      1.      Each Party may appoint one position on the Board from among its

elected officials.

                     ii.      Board members ("Board Members") will serve indefinitely at the

pleasure of the appointing Party. Any appointment or removal of a Board Member will be

evidenced by a letter from the Party's chief executive officer or resolution of such Party's

governing body notifying the Secretary of such action.

                     m.       A Party may designate an "alternate" Board Member from among

its elected officials, appointed officials, or employees, to attend any Board meetings and to fully

participate, including voting, in Board meetings on behalf of the Party if that Party's designated
                                                4
                                                                                          3-31-21

regular Board Member is not in attendance. The alternate Board Member serves indefinitely at

the pleasure of the appointing Party and any appointment or removal of an alternative Board

Member will be evidenced in the same way as the appointment of a regular Board Member for that

Party. As used herein the term "Board Member" shall include a Party's alternate Board Member

acting in the place of a Board Member as appropriate.

                    1v.       The Board may not hold an electronic meeting until the Board has

adopted a resolution or rule ("Policy") governing the use of electronic meetings as required by the

Utah Open and Public Meetings Act, Utah Code Ann. §52-4-101 et seq. (including any successor

statutes, "OPMA"). If the Board has adopted such a Policy, then the Board Members may

participate remotely/electronically as provided in the Policy, and in accordance with the OPMA.

                     v.       Unless otherwise specified herein, Board meetings, and all actions

taken thereby, will require that a quorum of Board Members be present (either physically or, if

permitted by the Policy, electronically) and shall operate in compliance with the OPMA. A simple

majority of all Board Members shall constitute a quorum of Board Members.

                    v1.       Other than as specified in Section 2.a.vii, matters related to the

operation of the Board, such as meeting times, meeting locations, the conduct of meetings, election

of officers, a chair and vice-chair, etc., will be established and adopted by the Board as written

bylaws, policies and/or procedures ("Bylaws") that include, but are not limited to, creation of

various committees, hiring outside consultants, lawyers and administrators, and issuance of

requests for proposals.

                   vii.       The Parties agree to the appointment of an initial President,

Secretary and Treasurer of the Agency as specified in Schedule 3. Until such time as the Board

establishes Bylaws that include procedures and duties, and elects or appoints substitute officers,

the President shall call and conduct board and committee meetings, conduct Agency business, and
                                                 5
                                                                                                        3-31-2 I

retain and manage outside consultants, the Secretary shall receive and provide notices required or

allowed hereunder and keep and prepare minutes and books of the Agency, and the Treasurer shall

receive and hold payments in a separate ledger account for the benefit of the Agency and handle

financial and accounting matters, including expenditures, of the Agency, in accordance with

governmental accounting principles.

                    viii.                The    Board    shall   appoint    a    "participating   communities'

representative" ("Participating Communities' Representative") as defined in the Rules to present

the decisions and opinions of the Agency and to take other actions as required by the Act or the

Rules.

                      ix.                The Board may, from time to time, appoint, establish, maintain, and

replace any officers, the Participating Communities' Representative, executive committees, other

committees, and outside administrative support as determined by the Board in accordance with the

Bylaws. It is the intention ofthe Parties that the officers of the Agency will periodically be elected

as set forth in the Bylaws, and that each Party will offer qualified employees to serve as potential

officers of the Agency in order to equitably share administrative burdens and costs.

               b.              Voting.

                          1.             Subject to Sections 2.b.ii, iii and iv, for all decisions and actions of

the Agency as to all matters related to this Agreement, the Program, Commission and other

proceedings relating to the Program, and otherwise, each Party as acted/voted upon by its Board

Member will be entitled to one vote, and matters before the Board will be passed and approved by

a vote of at least a majority of the Board Members who are present at a duly noticed meeting at

which a quorum is present and who are present and voting with respect to a given matter.

                    11.              Subject to Sections 2.b.iii and iv, any two Board Members who are

present at a Board Meeting may call for a weighted vote of the Board ("Weighted Voting") on any
                                                6
                                                                                           3-31-21

action or matter appearing on the current agenda for action by the Board, in which event the

Board's action on the matter will be determined by votes weighted by the Participation Percentage

(as defined in Section 6) of each voting Board Member.

                     iii.       Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, after

the date on which the Commission has entered an order pursuant to Utah Code Ann.§ 54-17-904

(3) approving the design and implementation ofthe Program ("Program Implementation"), neither

the Agency nor any Party will make, propose or support any comment, give testimony or state a

position with respect to any material change in connection with any Commission proceeding

relating to the design or implementation of the Program unless and until such change has first been

determined by the Board to be reasonable and material, and has been approved by Board Members,

whether or not attending any given Board meeting, representing (A) at least two-thirds (2/3) of all

Eligible Communities or Participating Communities, as then applicable, and (B) at least a majority

ofthe Participation Percentages of a11 Eligible Communities or Participating Communities, as then

applicable.

                     1v.        Before any new Renewable Resource for the Program is acquired or

approved by the Commission, the Board will, in consultation with experts as deemed appropriate,

calculate     reasonably    projected   long-term   incremental per-kilowatt-hour rate   impacts on

Participating Customers of the new Renewable Resource, in conjunction with all other previously-

approved Program Renewable Resources (the "Incremental Rate Impact"). The Incremental Rate

Impact will be calculated by comparing the reasonably projected RMP revenue requirement that

would othetWise apply to Participating Customers under standard RMP tariff rates to the

reasonably projected RMP revenue requirement that will apply to Participating Customers if the

new Renewable Resource is acquired.           Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this

Agreement, neither the Agency nor any Party will make, propose or support any comment, give
                                             7
                                                                                          3-31-21

testimony or state a position in support of any such acquisition or approval of a Renewable

Resource for the Program unless and until the same has been approved by Board Members,

whether or not attending any given Board meeting, representing (A) in the case of an Incremental

Rate Impact of 10% or more, at least two-thirds (2/3) of all Eligible Communities or Participating

Communities, as then applicable, and at least two-thirds (2/3) of the Participation Percentages of

all Eligible Communities or Participating Communities, as then applicable; or (B) in the case of

an Incremental Rate Impact of less than 10%, at least a majority of all Eligible Communities or

Participating Communities, as then applicable, and at least a majority of the Participation

Percentages of all Eligible Communities or Participating Communities, as then applicable.

       3.      Immunity Act. The decisions made pursuant to this Agreement are governmental

functions and the Parties are all governmental entities under the "Governmental Immunity Act of

Utah" (Utah Code Ann. § 63G-7-101 , et seq., or successor provision, the "Immunity Act"). The

Parties do not waive any immunities, rights, or defenses available under the Immunity Act, nor

does any Party waive any limits of liability provided by the Immunity Act. Consistent with the

terms of the Immunity Act, and as provided herein, it is mutually agreed that each Party is

responsible and liable for its own wrongful or negligent acts which are committed by it or by its

agents, officials, or employees.

       4.      Withdrawal.

               a.      Before July 31, 2021. Any time prior to July 31, 2021, a Party that has

previously executed and delivered this Agreement may elect not to continue as an Eligible

Community and may withdraw as a Party to this Agreement by providing a notice as specified in

Section 11 ("Notice") to the Secretary of its intent to withdraw. The Secretary will provide Notice

to all Parties of each Party that provided such a Notice of withdrawal or that did not timely make

its Initial Payment as required by Section 7.b.i, and any such Party will be deemed to have
                                                 8
                                                                                               3-31-21

withdrawn as a Party to this Agreement as of July 31, 2021, unless the Initial Payment is paid

within fifteen days of such Notice from the Secretary. An Eligible Community that withdraws or

is deemed to have withdrawn as of July 31, 2021, will have no financial commitment to the Agency

or the other Parties as a result of its participation in the Agency or its withdrawal as a Party hereto,

other than as provided in Section 3.

                b.      Before Passage of Ordinance. From July 31, 2021 to the deadline for a Party

to adopt an ordinance as required by Utah Code Ann. § 54-17-903(2)(c) following Program

Implementation a Party may elect not to become a Participating Community and may withdraw as

a Party to this Agreement by providing at least thirty days' advance Notice to the Secretary of its

intent to withdraw.

               C.       Effect of Withdrawal. Upon delivery of any Notice of withdrawal or upon

any deemed withdrawal of a Party, the withdrawing Party's Board Member must relinquish his or

her position as Board ChairNice-Chair and as an officer, as applicable, and will also be

automatically recused from all further discussions and votes on any matters affecting such

withdrawal or the Program. Due to commitments made pursuant to this Agreement and the

significant impact a withdrawal after July 31, 2021 may have on the other Parties, except as

specifically provided herein, all Parties acknowledge and agree that any amount previously paid

or committed to by any Party will not be refunded in whole or in part for any reason, including

any withdrawal of a Party after July 31, 2021.

               d.       After Passage of Ordinance. Neither the Act nor the Rules contemplates

that Participating Communities who have adopted an ordinance as required by Utah Code Ann. §

54-17-903(2)(c) following Program Implementation can thereafter terminate participation in the

Program or withdraw as a Party to this Agreement.


                                                   9
                                                                                           3-31-21

        5.      Admission of New Parties. Unless the Act is amended, no one other than the

Listed Entities who become Parties as specified in this Agreement may or will become Parties to

this Agreement. If the Act hereafter allows the admission of additional Parties, the Board may

adopt policies and procedures for such admission, including, without limitation, execution and

delivery of a counterpart of this Agreement by the new Party following approval by its governing

body.

        6.      Participation Percentages. The weight of the vote ("Participation Percentage")

of each Party's Board Member for all matters specified in Sections 2.b.ii, iii and iv will be

determined pursuant to the provision of this paragraph.      The Participation Percentages of all

Listed Entities, assuming every Listed Entity is becoming and remains a Party, is based on the

relative estimated population and annual electrical loads within each Listed Entity and is specified

in Column C of Schedule 1 ("Original Weight").

                a.      From the Effective Date to July 31, 2021, the Participation Percentages of

all Parties will equal each Party's Original Weight as a percentage of the Original Weight of all

Listed Entities who have previously become Parties by executing this Agreement and delivering

it to the Secretary as specified herein.

               b.      From August 1, 2021, to the end of Phase 1, each Party's Participation

Percentage will be based on its Phase 1 Payment obligation, including its Phase 1 Initial Payment

obligation and any Phase 1 Anchor Payment obligation (as defined below), as a percentage of the

total approved Phase 1 expenditures specified in Section 7.b. Such Participation Percentages will

be updated and calculated prior to any Board meeting or vote if any Listed Entity has become a

new Party and/or an Anchor Community since the last time the same were updated.

               c.      From the end of Phase 1 through the end of Phase 2 each Party's

Participation Percentage will be as based on its aggregate Phase I and Phase 2 Payment
                                            10
                                                                                             3-31-21

obligations, including its Phase 1 Initial Payment obligation, any Phase 1 Anchor Payment

obligation, and any Phase 2 Initial or Anchor Payment obligations (as defined below), as a

percentage of the total approved Phase 1and 2 expenditures as specified Sections 7.b. and 7 .c.

               d.               Unless otherwise agreed by all Parties, after the end of Phase 2, each

Party's Participation Percentage will be updated as of April 1 of each year, or such other date as

determined by the Board, to reflect the relative estimated annual electrical loads of Participating

Customers within such Participating Community as a percentage of the annual electrical loads of

all Participating Customers within all Participating Communities, based upon the most recently

available 12-month data or estimates from RMP as approved by the Board.

               e.     The Participation Percentage of all parties shall equal 100%.

       7.      Phases/Expenditures/Payments.

               a.     Subject to additions and changes approved by the Board, this Agreement

specifies authorized activities of the Agency and associated costs and expenditures in connection

with at least two phases of the development, implementation and operation of the Program (each,

a "Phase"). A Listed Entity that desires to remain a Party to this Agreement must pay to the

Treasurer its share of approved expenditures for each Phase on or before the due date(s) determined

by the Board or if no date is determined by the Board then as specified herein (each, a "Payment").

               b.     The first Phase ("Phase 1") will begin on the Effective Date and end on the

date the design of the Program with proposed Program Rates has been submitted by RMP to the

Commission for approval pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 54-17-904 ("Program Submittal Date").

Phase 1 has approved expenditures in an amount of $350,000. Each Listed Entity that intends to

become or remain a Party after July 31, 202 l, or other date as determined by the Board, shall make

Phase 1 Payments as follows :


                                                  11
                                                                                            3-31-21

                      1.      Each Party that desires to remain a Phase 1 Party after July 31, 202 l,

or other date as determined by the Board, shall make one or more Payments to the Treasurer on or

before July 31, 2021, or other date as determined by the Board, in the amount of its Phase 1 Initial

Payment as specified in Column D of Schedule 1.        After the Effective Date, the Agency may

commit to expenditures only after Parties have made full or partial Payments in amounts sufficient

to cover such expenditures.

                     11.      Each Phase 1 Anchor Community shall also make one or more

Phase 1 Anchor Payments to the Treasurer on or before October 31, 2021 for Anchor Communities

that are municipalities and January 31, 2022 for Anchor Communities that are counties, or such

other date in either case as may be determined by the Board, in an amount determined as specified

below, up to the maximum Phase 1 Anchor Payment specified for such Anchor Community in

Column D of Schedule 2. The aggregate total of all actual Phase I Anchor Payments shall equal

the approved Phase 1 expenditures specified in Section 7.b, reduced by the aggregate total dollar

amount received by the Treasurer in Phase 1 Initial Payments and from any other sources intended

for such purpose other than from the Parties prior to January 31, 2022 or other date as determined

by the Board, ("Phase I Remaining Balance"). The actual Phase l Anchor Payment to be paid by

each Phase 1 Anchor Community shall be based on its proportionate share of the aggregate of all

maximum Phase 1 Anchor Payments as specified in the "Total" Row of Column D of Schedule 2,

multiplied by the Phase 1 Remaining Balance. Any Anchor Payments made by any Anchor

Community in excess of such maximum Phase I Anchor Payments shall be entered in Column J

of Schedule 2 and shall be deemed to be a prepayment ("Phase 2 Anchor Prepayment") with

respect to such Anchor Community's Phase 2 Anchor Payment. The resulting actual Phase 1

Anchor Payment to be paid by each Phase 1 Anchor Community shall be entered in Column I of

Schedule 2 and shall be paid to the Treasurer by each Phase l Anchor Community by October 31,
                                                12
                                                                                             3-31-21

2021, for Anchor Communities that are municipalities and January 31, 2022 for Anchor

Communities that are counties or such other date in each case as may be determined by the Board.

                     iii.        Except as provided in Section 7.c.ii or 7.e, no Phase 1 Initial

Payment, Phase 2 Anchor Prepayment, or Phase 1 Anchor Payment will be refunded regardless of

the actual Phase 1 or Phase 2 expenditures, and no additional Phase 1 Payments other than those

specified herein will be required of any Party absent such Party's consent. The Board will

determine how any unused and uncommitted Phase I amounts held by it will be spent in connection

with the Program.

               c,          The second Phase ("Phase 2") will begin on the Program Submittal Date

and end on the expiration of the "implementation period" as defined in the Rules. Phase 2 has

approved expenditures in an amount not to exceed $350,000 or such lesser amount as approved by

the Board.   Each Party that intends to remain a Phase 2 Party shall make Phase 2 Payments as

follows:

                      1.         Each Party that desires to remain a Phase 2 Party shall make one or

 more Payments to the Treasurer on or before July 31, 2022, or other date as determined by the

 Board, in the amount of its Phase 2 Initial Payment as specified in Column E of Schedule 1.

                     ii.         Each Phase 2 Anchor Community shall also make one or more

Phase 2 Anchor Payments to the Treasurer on or before October 31, 2022, for Anchor

Communities that are municipalities and January 31, 2023 for Anchor Communities that are

counties or such other date in each case as may be determined by the Board, in an amount

determined as specified below, up to the maximum Phase 2 Anchor Payment specified for such

Anchor Community in Column G of Schedule 2. The aggregate total of all actual Phase 2 Anchor

Payments shall equal the aggregate of the approved Phase 1 and Phase 2 expenditures specified in

Sections 7.b and 7 .c, reduced by the aggregate total dollar amount of all Phase 1 and Phase 2 Initial
                                                  13
                                                                                           3-31-21

Payments and any other amounts received from sources intended for such purpose other than

Parties by July 31, 2022, or other date as determined by the Board, and further reduced by all Phase

 I Anchor Payments received by July 31, 2021, or other date as determined by the Board ("Phase

2 Remaining Balance"). The actual Phase 2 Anchor Payment to be paid by each Phase 2 Anchor

Community shall be based on its proportionate share of the aggregate of all maximum Phase 2

Anchor Payments as specified in the "Total" Row of Column G of Schedule 2, multiplied by the

Phase 2 Remaining Balance, as adjusted to credit each Phase 1 Anchor Commwiity for its

proportionate share of any Phase l Anchor Payments received by the Treasurer after July 31, 2021,

or other date as determined by the Board. The resulting actual Phase 2 Anchor Payment to be paid

by each Phase 2 Anchor Community shall be entered in Column K of Schedule 2 and shall be paid

to the Treasurer by each Phase 2 Anchor Community by October 31, 2022 or other date as

determined by the Board. In the event an Anchor Community's Phase 2 Anchor Prepayment

exceeds its actual Phase 2 Anchor Payment obligation, the Treasurer shall refund the excess

prepayment.

                    111.          Except as provided in Section 7.e and 7.c.ii, no Phase 2 Initial

Payment or Phase 2 Anchor Payment will be refunded regardless of the actual Phase 1 or Phase 2

expenditures, and no additional Phase 2 Payments other than those specified herein will be required

of any Party absent such Party's consent. The Board will determine how any unused and

uncommitted Phase 1 or Phase 2 amounts held by it will be spent in connection with the Program.

               d.          If at any time an Anchor Community provides Notice to the Secretary that

it elects to withdraw as a Party to this Agreement or as an Anchor Community, or if an Anchor

Community fails to make any Phase 1 or Phase 2 Initial Payment or Anchor Payment as required

hereunder, or if an Anchor Community is otherwise deemed to have withdrawn from this

Agreement, the Secretary shall provide Notice to aU Parties of the same and this Agreement shall
                                               14
                                                                                          3-31-21

terminate unless all remaining Anchor Communities, including any other Parties that then agree

to become Anchor Communities, reach agreement within 90 calendar days of such Notice as to

expenditures and future Anchor Community Payments.

               e.      If this Agreement is terminated, any unused and uncommitted Payments or

Phase 2 Anchor Prepayment held by the Agency or the Treasurer shall be refunded to the Parties

making the Phase 2 Anchor Prepayment or otherwise based on their relative total Payments

previously paid.

               f       Any other or additional Phases approved by the Board in addition to Phase

1 and Phase 2 will include such activities, expenditures and Payment requirements as may be

determined by the Board.

               g.     Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, each Eligible

Community shall be solely responsible for paying separately all costs and expenses of providing

notice within such Eligible Community as required by Sections 54-17-905(1) and (6)(a) of the Act.

       8.      Commitments Subject to Appropriation; Failure to Pay. All of the financial

commitments made herein by the Parties, as governmental entities, are subject to the appropriation

of funds approved by a Party's governing body and the limitations on future budget commitments

provided under applicable Utah law, including the Utah Constitution. In the event the governing

body of a Party fails to make appropriations necessary to satisfy the Party's financial obligations

hereunder, such failure to make an appropriation shall not be considered a breach of the Agreement

and such Party shall endeavor to provide timely Notice of the same to the Secretary and to all

Parties of its withdrawal from this Agreement. In the event a Party otherwise fails to timely make

any Payment required by this Agreement, the Board will notify such Party of such non-payment

and will provide 30 calendar days for such Party to make the required Payment. If such Party fails

to make any such required Payment, the Agency may pursue all remedies available at law or equity
                                             15
                                                                                            3-31-21

(including the judicial remedy of injunctive relief if applicable), and the Board may determine that

such Eligible Community will be deemed to have withdrawn from this Agreement unless and until

such Payment has been received.

        9.      Term. If not sooner terminated, the term of this Agreement shall be for 50 years

from the Effective Date of this Agreement.

        10.    Amendment. This Agreement may not be amended except by written instrument

signed by all the Parties.

         11.   Notices. All notices, requests, demands, and other communications hereunder

(each, a "Notice") to the Agency will be in writing and given by delivering a copy, by certified

U.S. Mail, return receipt requested, to the Secretary specified in Schedule 3, as the same may be

updated from time to time. Notice may also be sent to the Secretary via email as specified in

Schedule 3, so long as the Notice is followed up by written notice via U.S. Mail unless the

Secretary has provided written confinnation ofreceipt of such Notice. Notice information for each

Party shall be included on such Party' s signature page to this Agreement, and may be updated from

time to time by providing written Notice of the same to the Secretary. Notices received by the

Secretary will promptly be sent electronically by the Secretary to all officers and Board Members

of the Agency using such email address(es) as to which the Secretary has received Notice.

       12.     Interlocal Cooperation Act Requirements. The Parties enter into this Agreement

pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act. For the purpose of satisfying specific requirements of

the Interlocal Cooperation Act, the Parties agree as follows:

               a.      Approval Resolution. This Agreement shall be conditioned upon the

approval, execution and delivery to the Secretary of this Agreement by the Parties pursuant to and

in accordance with the provisions of the Interlocal Cooperation Act, including the adoption of


                                                16
                                                                                             3-31-21

resolutions of approval if such resolutions of the legislative bodies of the Parties are required by

the Interlocal Cooperation Act.

                b.     Attorney Approval as to Form. In accordance with the provisions of Utah

Code Ann. §11-13-202.5(3), this Agreement shall be submitted to the attorney authorized to

represent each Party for review as to proper fonn and compliance with applicable law before this

Agreement becomes effective as to such Party or is delivered to the Secretary.

                c.     Repository. A duly executed copy of this Agreement shall be filed with the

keeper of records of each Party, pursuant to Utah Code Ann. §11-13-209.

                d.     Joint Board. As required by Utah Code Ann.§ 11-13-207, the Parties agree

that the cooperative undertaking under this Agreement shall be administered by the Board.

               e.      Real and Personal Property. No real or personal property shall be acquired

jointly by the Parties as a result of this Agreement unless this Agreement has been amended to

authorize such acquisition. To the extent that a Party acquires, holds, or disposes of any real or

personal property for use in the joint or cooperative undertaking contemplated by this Agreement,

such Party shall do so in the same manner that it deals with other property of such Party.

               f       Financing Joint Cooperative Undertaking; Budget. The functions to be

performed by the joint or cooperative undertaking are those described in this Agreement. There

will be no financing of this joint or cooperative undertaking and no formal budget shall be

established or maintained. Each Party's share of approved Agency expenditures shall be

established and paid in accordance with this Agreement.

       13.     Entire Agreement & Schedules. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement

between the Parties regarding those subjects that are the subject matter of this Agreement, and this

Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings between the Parties pertaining

thereto. All schedules annexed to this Agreement are expressly made a part of this Agreement as
                                              17
                                                                                             3-31-21

though completely set forth herein. All references to this Agreement, either in this Agreement

itself or in any of such writings, shall be deemed to refer to and include this Agreement and all

such schedules and writings.

        14.     Governing Law & Venue. The provisions of this Agreement will be governed by

and be construed in accordance with the laws of the state of Utah. Disputes and other issues

between the Parties arising out of or related to this Agreement will, to the extent possible, be

resolved by informal mediation. If informal mediation is unsuccessful then the disputing Parties

shall attempt to mediate the dispute before an acceptable mediator.           If the dispute is not

successfully mediated or an acceptable mediator is not selected within ten business days of a

request for mediation then the dispute will be decided by litigation in the Third Judicial District

Court of Salt Lake County, Utah.

        15.    Waiver. No failure by any Party to insist upon strict performance of any covenant,

duty, agreement, or condition of this Agreement, or to exercise any right or remedy consequent

upon a breach thereof, will constitute a waiver of any such breach or of any other covenant,

agreement, term, or condition of this Agreement. Any Party may, by Notice delivered in the

manner provided in this Agreement, but will be under no obligation to, waive any of its rights or

any condition to its obligations hereunder, or any duty, obligation or covenant of the other Parties.

No waiver will affect or alter the remainder of this Agreement, but each and every other covenant,

agreement, term, and condition hereof will continue in full force and effect with respect to any

other then existing or subsequently occurring breach.

       16.     Severability. In the event that any condition, covenant, or other provision hereof

is held to be invalid, void, or unenforceable, the same will be deemed severable from the remainder

of this Agreement and will in no way affect any other covenant, condition, or other provision

herein contained. If such condition, covenant, or other provision will be deemed invalid due to its
                                                18
                                                                                             3-31-21

scope or breadth, such provision wilt be deemed valid to the extent of the scope or breadth

permitted by law.

           17.   Ethics. The Board members shall, as applicable, comply with the requirements of

the "Municipal Officers and Employees Disclosure Act" (Part 13 of Chapter 3 of Title 10 of the

Utah Code), the "County Officers and Employees Disclosure Act" (Chapter 16a of Title 17 of the

Utah Code), the "Public Officers and Employees Ethics Act'' (Chapter 16 of Title 67 of the Utah

Code) and other applicable statutory provisions related to ethics and honesty in public government

service.

           18.   Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which

will be deemed an original and all of which together will constitute one and the same instrument.

Delivery of an executed signature page by e-mail transmission or electronic signature shall be

effective as delivery of a manually signed counterpart of this Agreement.

       19.       Third-Party Beneficiaries. There are no intended third-party beneficiaries to this

Agreement. Enforcement of the terms and conditions of this Agreement, and all rights of action

relating to such enforcement, shall be strictly reserved to the Parties, and nothing contained in this

Agreement shall give or allow any claim or right of action by any third person under this

Agreement. It is the express intention of the Parties that any person, other than the Party who

receives benefits under this Agreement, shall be deemed an incidental beneficiary only.

      20.        Authorization. The individuals executing this Agreement on behalf of the Parties

confirm that they are duly authorized representatives of the Parties and are lawfully enabled to

execute this Agreement on behalf of the Parties.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the Parties, by resolution duly adopted, has caused this

Agreement to be signed and delivered.

                                [Signatures begin after Schedules]
                                                19
                                   SCHEDULE I

                [Listed Entities/Original Weights/Initial Payments]




A    B                             C               D                   E
     Listed Entities:              Original        Phase 1             Phase 2
                                   Weight(%):      Initial Payment     Initial Payment
                                                   mue 7/31/211        roue 7/31/22]

1    Grand County                          0.603           2,109.37           2,109.37
2    Salt Lake Countv                      3.306          11,570.26          11,570.26
3    Summit Countv                         3.074          10,759.97          10 759.97
4    Town of Alta                          0.063              218.93            218.93
5    Bluffdale City                        3.168          11,088.57          11,088.57
6    Town of Castle Valley                 0.030              106.74            106.74
7    Coalville Citv                        0.161              562.99            562.99
8    Cottonwood Heights                    3.126          10,942.10          10,942.10
9    Emiirration Canyon Townshio           0.130              456.22            456.22
10   Francis City                          0.120              421.54            421.54
11   City of Holladay                      2.682           9,387.72           9,387.72
12   Kamas Citv                            0.212              743.49            743.49
13   Keams                                 2.745           9,606.01           9,606.01
14   Moab Citv                             0.639           2,237.95           2,237.95
15   Millcreek                             5.263          18,421.40          18,421.40
16   Oakley Citv                           0.149                 520               520
17   Ogden Citv                           10.211          35,737.26          35,737.26
18   City of Orem                          8.863          31 ,019.52         31,019.52
19   Park City                             1.926           6,742.38           6,742.38
20   Salt Lake Citv                       28.872         101,050.33         101,050.33
21   Springdale Citv                       0.138              481.26            481.26
22   West Jordan Citv                     10.833          37,916.77          37,916.77
23   West Valley City                     13.685          47,899.22          47,899.22
     SUM                                  100.00         350,000.00         350,000.00
                                                                          SCBEDULE2

                                                          [Anchor Communities/Anchor Payments]



A            B                      C           D            E             F            G            H            I          J        K           L
      Anchor                  Phase 1       Maximum      Maximum      Phase 2       Maximum      Maximum      Actual    Actual    Actual    Total
      Communities*            Initial       Phase 1      Phase 1      Initial       Phase 2      Phase 2      Phase 1   Phase 2   Phase 2   Maximum
                              Payment       Anchor       Total        Payment       Anchor       Total        Anchor    Anchor    Anchor    Phase 1 and
                              (from         Payment      Payments     (from         Payment      Payments     Payment   Pre-      Payment   Phase 2
                              Schedule I)                             Schedule 1)                                       Payment             Initial and
                                                                                                                                            Anchor
                                                                                                                                            Pavment!l

1    Grand Countv                2,109.37     2,716.04     4,825.41      2,109.37     2,716.04     4,825.41                                    9,650.82
2    Salt Lake Countv           11,570.26    14,897.93    26,468.19     11,570.26    14,897.93    26,468.19                                   52,936.38
3    Summit Countv              10,759.97    13 854.61    24.614.58     10,759.97    13,854.61    24,614.58                                   49,229.16
4    Town of Castle Valley         106.74       137.44       244.18        106.74       137.44       244.18                                      488.36
5    Moab Citv                   2,237.95     2,881.60     5,119.55      2,237.95     2,881.60     5,119.55                                   10,239.10
6    Millcreek                  18.421.40    23,719.50    42,140.90     18.421.40    23,719.50    42,140.90                                   84,281.80
7    Park Citv                   6,742.38     8,681.52    15,423.90      6,742.38     8,681.52    15 423.90                                   30,847.80
8    Salt Lake Citv            101,050.33   130,112.96   231.163.29    101,050.33   130 112.96   231,163.29                                  462 326.58
     TOTALS:                   152,998.40   197,001.60   350,000.00    152,998.40   197,001.60   350,000.00                                  700,000.00

    *Not final until signed
                                      SCHEDULE3

                [Initial Officers/Contact Information/Payment Information]




Initial President:




Phone: - - - - - - -
Fax: - - - - - - - -
Email: - - - - - - -

Initial Secretary:




Phone: - - - - - - -
Fax: _ _ _ _ _ _ __
Email: - - - - - - -
Initial Treasurer




Phone: - -- - - - -
Fax: - - - - - - - -
Email: - - - - - - -


       Payment Information:
                                   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS




Approved as to legal form:                               AA
                                                                      ~
                                                                      ~



                                                                  I




DATED:          I
             l, l S' I UYl,j                                      ~J.
                                                        ,.i~+~'¾"' .(




Contact Information:
C1r't ft\40~
'2.7..,') k T " %:.&A-t.. lSL\ln
fa n:<:NW&)D \ ~ C'ltt'l:1, \.)1 8\.\ I "21
Phone: 80\ <:1 ':( '-i . 1 CCO
Fax: - -- -- - -
Email:
         ------
      Attachment - B
CRE Membership Fees
                                                                                         Participation Percentages
                                                                    Community Renewable Energy Agency Board




                                                                                                 I                                        Weighted Votes Occuring After MONTH, DAY YEAR
                                                          Phase I                   Phase 2                                           Phose 2 Remaining                                        Part iclpal ion Yes vole
                                                                     Phase 2                 Aggregate Total of                                                                                                           Total Yes
                                         Phase I Initial  Anchor                  Anchor                           Phase 2 Anchor     Balance Distributed   Prospective    Total Phase I and 2 Percentage        on
  Date                                                                Initial                  Actual Phase I                                                                                                             Percenlage
                 Lisi.Cd Enlilies or       Payments       Paymenl                 Paymen t                          Proportionate       Proportionally    Parly Paymento    and Prospective    for Weighted Resolulion
 Deemed                                                             Paymenls                   Initial, Pha... I                                                                                                              on
                Pros pective Parties:     (Schedule I,      Mox                      Max     Anchor, und Phase 2 Shares, based on Max  Among Anchors       Authorized by Party Payments as of Voles After      XX-XX
Wi1hdrawn                                                          (Schedule I,                                                                                                                                           Resolution
                                           column D) (Schedule 2,               (Schedule 2,  lnililll Payments   Anchor Paymenls      (Phase 2 Anchor    Resolution 24-05 Meeting Date Above    MM-DD-        Weighted
                                                                    column E)                                                                                                                      yyyy                    XX-XX
                                                         column D)               col umn G)                                               Payment)                                                              Vote?
            Grand County                      2, 109.37     3.110.81    2, 109.37     3,110.81       s     6,364.78                1.49% S         1,692.07                    $      8.056.85        1. 12%                  0.00%
            Salt Lake County                 i 1.570.26                11,570.26                 $        23,140.52                0.00% S               -                     s     23, 140.52       3.21%                   0.00%
            Summit County                    10,759.97     15,868.33   10,759.97     15,868.33 . $        32,466.94                7.61% $         8,63 1.28                   $     41,098.22        5.69%                   0.00%
            T0\'1lofAha                         2 18.93                   218.93                 $           437.86                0.00% S               -                     s        437.86        0.06%                   0.00%
            Bluffdale Citv                   11,088.57                 11,088.57                 $              -                  0.00% $               -                     $                      0.00%                   0.00%
            Town of'Castle V:,llev              106.74        157.42       106.74       157.42 $             322.08                0.08% $            85.63                    $        407.71        0.06%                   0.00%
            Coalville City                      562.99                    562.99                 IS        1,125.98                0.00% S               -                     $      1,125.98        0.16%                   0.00%
            Cottom\ood I ll'i1.d1t!\         10.941. 10                10,941. 10                    $    21,884.20                0.00% S               -                     $     21,884.20        3.03%                   0.00%
            Emigration Canvon Townshic          456.22                    456.22                     $       912.44                0.00% S              -                      s        9 12.44       0.13%                   0.00%
            Francis City                        421.54                    421.54                 IS          843.08                0.00% S              -                      $        843.08        0.12%                   0.00%
            City of l-lolladny                9,387.72                  9,387.72                     $    18,775.44                0.00% $              -                      s     18,775.44        2.60%                   0.00%
            Kamas City                          743.49                    743.49                     $          -                  0.00% $              -                      $           -          0.00%                   0.00%
            Keams                             9,606.01                  9,606.0 1                    s    19,212.02                0.00% $              -                      $     19,212.02        2.66%                   0.00%
            Moab Citv                         2,237.95      3,300.43    2,237.95      3,300.43 . S         6,752.75                1.58% $         1,795.21                    $      8,547.96        1.18%                   0.00%
            Midvale Citv                                                                                                                                       $   21,884.20   $     21,884.20        3.03%
            Millcreek                        18,421.40     27,167.05   18,421.40     27,167.05 , $        55,584.39               13.03% $        14,777.00                    $     70,361.39        9.75%                   0.00%
            Oakley City                             520                      520                 $         1.040.00                0.00% $              -                      $      1,040.00        0.14%                   0.00%
            Ogden City                       35,737.26                 35,737.26                 $        71,474.52                0.00% $              -                      $     71,474.52        9.90%                   0.00%
            City of'Orem                     31,0 19.52                31,019.52                     s          -                  0.00% $                                     $           -          0.00%                   0.00%
            Park City                         6,742.38      9,943.35    6,742.38      9.943.35 $          20,344.33                4.77% $        5,408.50                     s     25.752.83        3.57%                   0.00%
            Salt Lake City                  101,050.33    149,024.48 I 01,050.33    149,024.48 1 $       304.907.42               7 1.45% $      81,059.05                     s    385,966.47       53.47%                   0.00%
            Town of Springdale                  481.26                    481.26                     s       962.52                0.00% $              -                      $        962.52        0.13%                   0.00%
            West Jordan City                 37,916.77                 37,916.77                     $                             0.00% S              -                      s           -          0.00%                   0.00%
            West Valley City                 47,899.22                 47,899.22                     $                             0.00% $              -                      $           -          0.00%                   0.00%
                                            350,000.00    208,571.87 350,000.00     208,571.87           586.551.27              100.00%         I 13,448.73                   s    721,884.20        )00"/o                  0.00%




                                                                                                               As of 4/21/2025
Community Renewable Energy Agency Board                                                       11/3/25 Treasurer's Report Page 1 of 8

                                              Treasurer's Report for I 1/3/25 Meeting

Billing report (p. 1 of 2)
For Date Range : 09/ 01/ 201 1 - 10/29/2025
 CRE - CRE MEMBERSHIP
   Date Billed                   Name                                Account Name                         Amount
    9/15/2021 GRAND COUNTY                         Membership Fee - Phase I Initial Payment                   2,109.37
    9/15/2021 SUMMIT COUNTY                        Membership Fee - Phase I Initial Payment                  10,759.97
    9/15/2021 TOWN OF ALTA                         Membership Fee - Phase I Initial Payment                     218.93
    9/15/2021 TOWN OF CASTLE VALLEY                Membership Fee - Phase I Initial Payment                     106.74
    9/15/2021 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS                   Membership Fee - Phase Initial Payment                    10,942.10
    9/15/2021 FRANCIS CITY                         Membership Fee - Phase Initial Payment                       421.54
    9/15/2021 CITY OF HOLLADAY                     Membership Fee - Phase Initial Payment                     9,387.72
    9/15/2021 KEARNS                               Membership Fee - Phase Initial Payment                     9,606.01
    9/15/2021 MOAB CITY                            Membership Fee - Phase Initial Payment                     2,237.95
    9/15/2021 MILLCREEK                            Membership Fee - Phase Initial Payment                    18,421.40
    9/15/2021 OGDEN CITY                           Membership Fee - Phase Initial Payment                    35,737.26
    9/15/2021 PARK CITY                            Membership Fee - Phase Initial Payment                     6,742.38
    9/15/2021 SALT LAKE CITY                       Membership Fee - Phase Initial Payment                   101,050.33
    9/15/2021 SPRINGDALE CITY                      Membership Fee - Phase Initial Payment                       481.26
   10/19/2021 SALT LAKE COUNTY                     Membership Fee - Phase Initial Payment                    11,570.26
   11/10/2021 GRAND COUNTY                         Anchor Payment - Phase                                      2,146.04
   11/10/2021 SUMMIT COUNTY                        Anchor Payment - Phase                                    10,947.00
   11/10/2021 TOWN OF CASTLE VALLEY                Anchor Payment - Phase                                       108.60
   11/10/2021 MOAB CITY                            Anchor Payment - Phase                                     2,276.85
   11/10/2021 MILLCREEK                            Anchor Payment - Phase                                    18,741.59
   11/10/2021 PARK CITY                            Anchor Payment - Phase                                     6,859.57
   11/10/2021 SALT LAKE CITY                       Anchor Payment - Phase                                   102,806.76
Community Renewable Energy Agency Board                                                               11/3/25 Treasurer's Report Page 2 of 8

Billing report (p. 2 of 2)

 4/12/2022 GRAND COUNTY                                   Membership Fee - Phase Initial Payment                       2,109.37
 4/12/2022 SUMMIT COUNTY                                  Membership Fee - Phase Initial Payment                      10,759.97
 4/12/2022 TOWN OF ALTA                                   Membership Fee - Phase Initial Payment                         218.93
 4/12/2022 TOWN OF CASTLE VALLEY                          Membership Fee - Phase Initial Payment                         106.74
 4/12/2022 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS                             M embership Fee - Phase Initial Payment                     10,942.10
 4/12/2022 FRANCIS CITY                                   Membership Fee - Phase Initial Payment                         421.54
 4/12/2022 CITY OF HOLLADAY                               Membershfp Fee - Phase Initial Payment                       9,387.72
 4/12/2022 KEARNS                                         Membership Fee - Phase lnitial Payment                       9,606.01
 4/12/2022 MOAB CITY                                      Membership Fee - Phase Initial Payment                       2,237.95
 4/12/2022 MILLCREEK                                      Membership Fee - Phase Initial Payment                      18,421.40
 4/12/2022 OGDEN CITY                                    Membership f ee - Phase I Initial Payment                    35,737.26
 4/12/2022 PARK CITY                                      Membership Fee - Phase II Initial Payment                    6,742.38
 4/12/2022 SALT LAKE CITY                                Membership Fee - Phase II Initial Pavment                   101.050.33
4/12/2022 SPRINGDALE CITY                                Membership Fee - Phase II Initial Payment                      481.26
4/12/2022 SALT LAKE COUNTY                               Membership Fee - Phase II Initial Payment                   11,570.26
 5/4/2022 COALVILLE CITY                                 Membership Fee - Phase I Initial Payment                       562.99
 S/4/2022 OAKLEY CITY                                    Membership Fee - Phase I Initial Payment                       520.00
 5/4/2022 COALVILLE CITY                                 Membership Fee - Phase II Initial Payment                      562.99
 5/4/2022 OAKLEY CITY                                    Membership Fee - Phase II Initial Payment                      520.00
6/15/2022 EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP               Membership Fee - Phase I Initial Payment                       456.22
6/15/2022 EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP               Membership Fee ~ Phase II Initial Payment                      456.22
9/27/2022 GRAND COUNTY                                   Anchor Payment - Phase ti                                    1,692.06
9/27/2022 SUMMIT COUNTY                                  Anchor Payment - Phase II                                    8,631.28
9/27/2022 TOWN OF CASTLE VALLEY                          Anchor Payment - Phase II                                       85.62
9/27/2022 MOAB CITY                                      Anchor Payment - Phase II                                    1,795.21
9/27/2022 MILLCREEK                                      Anchor Payment - Phase II                                   14J77.01
9/27/2022 PARK CITY                                      Anchor Payment - Phase II                                    5,408.50
9/27/2022 SALT LAKE CITY                                 Anchor Payment - Phase 11                                   81,059.05


          *Grand County Invoice resent on February 7, 2023                                 Total Billed     $     700,000.00
              Attachment - C
Projected RMP Noticing Costs
      Here is our latest estimate of the RMP noticing costs (see "latest budget guidance" column):
               .
         Commumty               C     t
                                       All   Paperless Mailing 1
                                            e·ir     /c ) (
                                    us omers I rng 10 o everyone
                                                                     Mailin? ~
                                                                 I (paper b1llrng (paper, pn nting,
                                                                       only)
                                                                                    Mailer 1 ~~st
                                                                                     & postage)
                                                                                                       Mailing #1
                                                                                                        C t ($)
                                                                                                         os
                                                                                                                     Mailer 2 C~st
                                                                                                                    (paper, printing,
                                                                                                                      & postage)
                                                                                                                                         Mailing#
                                                                                                                                         C t ($)
                                                                                                                                           os         _____
                                                                                                                                                                         Prior Budget
                                                                                                                                                                          G Id
                                                                                                                                                                            u ance
                                                                                                                                                                                              Two Notices All
                                                                                                                                                                                               C t
                                                                                                                                                                                                us omers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                I
Aha                                       261       62%         261           100              0.87        227.07               0.87          87.10         329 87   S           388 93   $              454 14
Castle Valley                             286       55%         286           130              0.87        248.82               0.87         113.18         3801 0   S           41851    S              49764
Coalville                              1,176        48%       1,176           616              0.87      1,023.12               0.87         536.01       1.637 08   S         1,681.42   S           2,04624
Cottonwood Heights                    14,824        61%      14,824         5,714              0 87     12,896 88               O87        4,971.48      18.761 77   S        21,593 73   S          25,793 76
6migration Canyon Townshlp                475       64%         475           173              0.87        413.25               0 87         150.12         591 54   S           69948    S              82650
Francis                                   765       61%         765           298              0.87        665.55               0.87         259.12         97090    S         1,05440    S           1,33110
Grand County Unincorporaied     "      3,475 "      48%       3,475         1,804              0.87      3,023.25               0.87       1,569.76       4.822 67   S         4,877 15   S           6,046 50
Holladay                              13,594        58%      13,594         5,671              0.87     11,826.78               0.87       4,933.84      17,598 65   S        19,530 78   $          23,653 56
Kearns                                10,840        54%      10,840         4,973              0.87      9,430.80               0.87       4,326.34      14,444.99   S        15,826 33   S          18,861 60
Midvale                               17,866        51%      17,886         8,675              0.87     15,56082                0.87       7,54744       24.26367            NIA          $          31 .121 64
Mlllcreek                             26.,330       49%      26,330        13,495              0.87     22,907.10               0.87      11,740.43      36,379.91   S        37,724.70   S          45,81420
Moab                                   3,679        58%       3,679         1,550              0.87      3,200.73               0.87       1,348 48       4.776 67   S         5,402 13   S           6,401 46
Oakley                                    776       54%         776           359              0.87        675.12               0.87         31219        1,03668    $         1,11207    S           1,35024
Ogden                                 38,842        54%      38.842        17,835              0.87     33,792.54               0.87      15,516.59      51,774 59   S        55,766.30   $          67,58508 1
ParkCily                              11,059        68%      11,059         3,562              0.87      9,621.33               0.87       3,098.84      13,356 17   $        16,12949    S          19.24266
SaltLakeCity                         111,550        63%     111,550        40,844              0.87     97,048.50               0.87      35,534.24     139,211 88 S         155,82770    S         194,09700
Salt Lake County Uninoorporated "     12,342 "      38%      12,342         7,618              0.87     10,737.54               0.87       6,628.06      18,233.88 S          17,736.97   S          21,475 08
Springdale                                725       539&        725           343              0.87        630.75               0.87         298 04         975 23 S           1,044 05   S           1,261 50
Summit County Unincorporated          12,286        589&     12,286         5,137              0 87     10,688.82               0.87       4,469.07      15,915 78 S          17,577 25   $          21 .377 64
TOTALS                               281,171                281,171       118,897     -- -            S244,618.TT     ----              S103,440.31 S   365,462.04 S         374391,38 S            489 37.54
                     Attachment - D
2025 CRE Board Member Appointments
                                                 r~~1
                                     Cottonwood Heights
                                     City between the canyons


January 31, 2025



Community Renewable Energy Agency

Emily Quinton

1330 E Chambers Ave

Millcreek, UT 84106




RE: Community Renewably Energy Agency- Board Member Appointments

Ms. Quiton:
Recent staff changes have affected Cottonwood Heights' membership on the Community
Renewable Energy Agency Board. As such, we request formal appointment of a new Alternate
Board Member, pursuant to the procedures set forth in the lnterlocal Agreement Among Public
Entities Regarding the Community Renewable Energy Program.

We hereby designate the following Board Members on behalf of Cottonwood Heights:

Primary: Mike Weichers, Mayor

Alternate: Ian Harris, Associate Planner & Sustainability Analyst



Sincerely,




 ¢ '-
Jared Gerber

City Manager

Cottonwood Heights
                                 ?~,
                        Cottonwood Heights
                        Cuy brtu~m the <at1J01JJ




                       Appendix 4

                    STAFF REPORT
General Plan Presentation and Discussion with City Council
                and Planning Commission

                        Jim Spung
Public Hearing Needed?         Yes D No IXI Undetermined D
                               Denied D Approv
                               CM Signature: _

REQUEST
launched in 2021, this General Plan update aims to revise the city's long-term policy framework for land use, housing,
transportation, economic development, and recreation for the next 10-20 years. The current plan, adopted in 2005,
successfully addressed key priorities, many of which have already been achieved. As the city evolves and faces new
challenges and opportunities, an updated General Plan will act as a policy guide to shape the future of the city.

BACKGROUND
A series of online Public Engagement Meetings were held in early 2021 to help determine key planning issues and identify
the future vision and goals for the City. An online platform provided various options for public comment and participation,
including:

    o   A Visioning Survey to identify key issues and future visions;
    o   A Crowdsource Mapping Tool to locate specific needs, issues, and opportunities;
    o   A Community Idea Board to indicate likes and missing elements; and
    o   A Vision Confirmation Survey to verify goals and objectives.

Following public feedback at an Open House in 2022, the General Plan Draft was updated but lost momentum as staff
shifted focused and resources to the Town Center project and Form-Based Code. We are now resuming progress on the
General Plan update.

On October 7, 2025, the City Council and Planning Commission met in a joint work session to review the draft General
Plan, which was developed based on prior public outreach efforts. Subcommittees were formed for each General Plan
element to develop a clear mission statement and 3-5 specific goals. The City Council and Planning Commission
reconvened on December 2, 2025, to review the subcommittees' findings and agreed that more time was needed to refine
the mission statements, goals, and strategies. The group agreed to reconvene on January 20, 2026, to review and discuss.

Today's work session will focus on reviewing the subcommittee efforts to reach general consensus on the vision and goals
for each General Plan element. We will also define a clear path forward for preparing the draft General Plan for formal
adoption. In addition to finalizing the core elements of the plan, we will discuss the public engagement process moving
forward. Meaningful public input is essential to ensure the General Plan reflects the community's values and priorities.

RECOMMENDATION
Discussion item only.

ATTACHMENTS
Draft Vision Statements, Goals, and Strategies (tracked changes)
Draft Vision Statements, Goals, and Strategies (clean)
NOTE: This document Includes tracked-changes from the document shared with the Planning
Commission and City Council during the last Joint Work Session on December 2, 2025.



                                                                                                                                  Commented [JS1]: General Comment:
ILAND USE                    '-
                               _ ____________________________/                                                                    #1 Update overall mission statement for entire
                                                                                                                                  document to reflect the revised mission statements and
                                                                                                                                  goals in this document. We'll probably need to revisit
                                                                                                                                  the mission statement a few more times before it's
         'jCottonwood Heights           ill promote thoughtful, targeted development that strengthens our                         final.
         city, protects private property rights, drives economic opportunities, and helps create a
                                                                                                                              " - Commented [JS2]: Make sure terminology is
         vibrant and distinctive sense ofplace for residents and landowners. The city will facilitate the                         consistent throughout (i.e .. naming of city and
         improvement of multimodal connections between homes, businesses, and recreational                                        capitalizations. etc.)

         areas. The city will foster a strong local economy, vibrant commercial districts, and a
         community-oriented Towne Center. Clear and purposeful land use designations will guide
         development in a way that enhances property values and aligns with the city's long-term
         vision. By streamlining development processes, collaborating with public and private
         partners, and leveraging city-owned assets, the Cottonwood Heights will create a more
         connected, accessible, and prosperous future for residents, landowners, businesses, and
         visitors."

1. Targeted, High-Quality Development and Redevelopment
    The city will work toward focusing growth and reinvestment in strategic areas to support community
    character mixed-use development and overall development quality Zoning updates and targeted
    incentives may be considered to help guide redevelopment and advance economic and place-making
    obiectjyes,l'he eiry .vill focu3 gro.,th 11Me1 rei11,e3tn,ent i11 3tr11tegic !lre!l3 to 311 engthen eon,rnun it)
    Ch!lI8Cter, 3Upport !l n,ix of U3e3, 81'1d el'l3Urc high C!Ulllity de,eloprncRt. Updeted l0l'lir'ig !lnd t!lrgeted
    i11teI1ti,e3 iiill guide rede ,elop111cnt lh!lt dcli,cr3 l83til'lg CCOMOl'I lie and place n,!lkil Ig be11cfit3.



    Key Actions:
    o Prioritize development and redevelopment in targeted areas.
    o     Update zoning code to provide more high-quality development outcomes.
    o     Encourage reinvestment in underutilized commercial areas and aging properties.
    o     Provide incentives for projects that align with citywide planning goals.
    o     Promote development that supports a mix of uses where appropriate.

2. Streamlined, Predictable, and Fair Development Processes
     Cottonwood Heights aims to modernize its development review procedu res to promote clarity fairness
     and efficiency for applicants and residents eotton .. oed I leight3 ,viii moderniie it3 de,elopn,rnt re,ie,1
     proceduIe3 to pI o,ide II eleer, IBir, end efficient p,oec33 for !lpplie11nt3 11nd re3ide11t3. Objective
     standards and improved coordination will reduce delays and create greater predictability.

     Key Actions:


DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Pten--t£llml Missio n Statement & Goals - 1 2 . 0 2 . 2 0 2 5               Page l   ot 20
     o     Simplify t he development review process to reduce delays and increase transparency.
     o     Remove outdated, redundant, or unclear regulations that do not contribute to health, safety, or
           welfare.
     o     Establish clear, objective approval standards to p rotect private property rights and reduce
           uncertainty.
     o     Create fast-t rack development review pathways for projects compliant with adopted land use maps
           and zoning.
     o     Improve coordination among city departments to enhance customer service and efficiency.


3.   Strengthen Neighborhood Character and Land Use Compatibility
     New development will enhance neighborhood character through context-sensitive design, appropriate
     transitions, and pedestrian-friendly site layouts. This approach will ensure infill and redevelopment
     contribute positively to the city's unique sense of place.


     Key Actions:
     o     Support development that fosters the future vision of the city and its unique sense of place.
     o     Encourage developers to implement context-sensitive transitions using buffering, landscaping,
           building massing, and site design. [Mitigating secondary impacts].
     o     Promote walkability, pedestrian-friendly design, and connections within and between
           neighborhoods.
     o     Encourage infill development that aligns with the city's future vision.


4. Expand Connectivity and Access to Community Amenities
     The City will support and pmsue improvements to multimodal connections between homes
     businesses and recreation areas to strengthen mobility and access Tt.e city .. ill in,provc 11 ,ultimod11l
     connections beh,ecn homes, b~sinesses, 11nd reerc11tiOJ'l areas to strengthen mobilit~ and aeees3.
     Investments in trails, transit partnerships, and public ame nities will create a more integrated and
     accessible community.


     Key Actions:
     o     Improve pedestrian and bicycle infrastructure, including trails, sidewalks, and safe crossings.
     o     Coordinate with public agencies to expand transit access and improve system integration.
     o     Leverage city-owned or public lands to increase parks, civic amenities, and trail linkages.
     o     Pursue grants and partnerships for land acquisition, open space, and recreation improvements.


5.   Support a Resilient, Diverse, and Vibrant Local Economy
     Cottonwood Heights aims to strengthen key commercial districts and support the creation of flexible
     innovative spaces that contribute to business attraction and retention Economic development
     strategies may be used to support residents. visitors employees and long-term fiscal
     sustainability Cotttrnu.ood I leigh13 will reinloree kei eommerei!ll di3triet3 !lnd lo3terflexible , inne,!ltive
     sp11ecs lh11t 111tr11et 1111d ret11i11 businesses. Str11tcgie eeo,,0J'l1ic development efforts "ill support
     reside, ,13, visitors, c,, ,plo1ees, Hnd lo, ,g tern, fise!ll 3U3tllinllbilit~ .


DRAFT    Cottonwood Heights General   Ptttn-tflan.l.   Mission Statement &   Goats - 12.02.2025               Page 2   of 20
    Key Actions:
    o    Reinforce key economic centers on the east and west sides of the city.
    o    Develop the Towne Center as a community-oriented hub with neighborhood-serving businesses.
    o    Encourage flexible commercial spaces such as incubators, mixed-use buildings, and startup-
         friendly environments.
    o    Promote development in areas with visibility and traffic patterns that support economic success.
    o    Strengthen relationships with business owners, developers, and regional economic partners.
    o    Coordinate early with public stakeholders on major projects affecting city residents.


6. Embedding Sustainability into Growth and Development Patterns [sustainability]
    The city intends to guide its pursuit of sustainability by promoting compact walkable and well-
    connected development patterns that minimize environmental impacts and reduce re liance on
    automobiles The City's approach aims to balance redevelopment and housing diversity with the
    protection of natural resources and the preservation of Cottonwood Heights' distinctive community
    character
    " Support and encourage growth towa rd compact walkable mixed-use infill and redevelopment in
        activity centers corridors and transit-served areas to reduce environmental impacts and
        intrastructLU:.e..Cll.Sls,
    o Promote land use patterns that reduce vehicle dependence shorten trip lengths and support daily
        needs within close proximity
    " Seek to protect open space foothHls riparian corridors sensitive habitats and natural lands
        .Ihm.ugh land use designations development standards and conservation practices
    " Encourage sustainable site planning and building design including orientation for passive solar
        gain reduced impervious surfaces and integration of low-impact landscaping
    " Support a range of housing types that meet the needs of all lite stages and income levels while
        efficiently using land and infrastructure
    o Encourage connectivity between developments and surrounding neighborhoods emphasizing
        pedestrian bicycle and trail connections
    n Strive to balance redevelopment and intensification with design compatibilitythat respects
        neighborhood character and Cottonwood Heights' identity




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Ptefl-tElau.J. Mission Statement & Goals - 12.02.2025            Page J oi 20
                                                                                                                                                 /   Commented [JS3): Other comments:
~RANSPORTATION~
              I -                                                                -            _ _ __ _ _ __ _ __ _ _ _ /
                                                                                                                                                     #1 address maintenance and commitments to existing
                                                                                                                                                     infrastructure (don't overextend ourselves or over
                                                                                                                                                     promise new ideas).
                                                                                                                                                     #2 possibly set aside funding for future studies to
          "Provide asafe balanced and multimodal transportation svstem that supports Cottonwood                                                      address more specific needs.
          Hei~ts' quality of lite protects neightmrhood character strengthens economic vitality. iJ1lJ.i                                             #3 capture resiliency, environmental concerns. and
                                                                                                                                                     financial realities in mission, goals, and policies.
          responsibly manages regiooal and canvon-retated travel while imp_roving mobility for
          residents of all ages and abilities "{Citizen engagement during foundational conceotslflte
          ffli33iBR Bf GBIIBRhBBEI l.'eit/'118' n/lll3fl611tln"6R 3")31effl is 16 ,eEluee se,iBU3 iflju,ies BREI
          ltJltllilies I,) Elesig,tiRg safe, effieieRI, MEI aeeessill,'e "a")s fe, e,e, 7BRe 16 1,a,e,' ,,hellie,
          1>11/kiRg, /JikiRg, 16/{iRg, HikiRg I. /lll3il, B, d, ioiRg. We 31, ,-, e IB C6flf!ee I Reig/J/J(jj /imJE/3, fllli ks,
          3CR66l3, /Jusiflesses, llflEI ,egi6flll{ Eles lif1Mi6fl3, irieluEliRg lhe b½sale/i CM)Bfl3, ,,hile
          weser.irig eu, meurittJiR eh11,11ete, BREI suppertirig ll oi/J,arit, health"), ariEI ,esi/iellt
          eenirmmity. "




4.---.lmprove Safety for all Users of the Transportation SystertLPron,ote 8 S8fe Tr8nsportetion                                                      Formatted: Justified, Right 0.5", Space Before: 12 pt,
    Sy3tem t hat Red11ce3 Serio113 Inj uries and Fata!itie3                                                                                          After: 12 pt, Numbered+ level: 1 + Numbering Style:
                                                                                                                                                     1, 2. 3, ... + Start at 1 + Alignment: left+ Aligned at
                                                                                                                                                     0" + Indent at 0.25"
    Create 3aler streets by designing reado,ays that reduce crashes, lo .. er speeds where
    eppropriete, and protect e,e1yo1, e wl,ether tl,ey are .. alki11g, biki11g, 1olli11g, ridi11g transit, or
    driving-:
    Objectives
        1 Reduce serious injuries and fatalities within Cottonwood Heights' boundary
        2 Adopt Safe Systems Approach (SSA) prioritizing projects and poUcy that measurably
            improve safety
       +.-Design streets that create visual friction and reduce conflict between vehicles
            pedestrians bicyclists and transit


    Kei Action3£olicie.s.:
          Apply safe by design pri neiple3 to ell 3treet projects, .. ith 3peciel focus on intersections and
          higt1 rislt corridors Policy 1,1: Prioritize safety improvements in transportation planning design
          and capital investment decisions ~
          P1anege ,chicle speeds through design , sig11Bge, a11d co11text appropriete treffie cBln,ing.
          Elilicy_L2:..SIJ.pport street desigo.s..and traffic management strategies that reduce vehicle speeds
          where appropriate, particularly near neighborhoods schools, parks and commercial areas
          Policy 1 3· Priorilife impre,ements in leeatiens "il h a llistery ol erashes or near selleels, parks,
          and busy crossings.
          Incorporate pedestrian and bicycle safety considerations into roadway intersection and
          redevelopment proiects




DRAFT   Cottonwood Heights General    Pttltt-tflan.1   Mission S   t atement &   Goals -12.02 . 2025                          Page 4   ot   20
    ,a,---Provide a Balanced Transpomtion System that.S.upp_oJ1s..M.ulliple Modes otTrav~lStre11gthen
          p111tner3t,ips .uith UDOT, 18~~ enforcement, schools, Bnd co111mtinity groups to support s11fety
          initieti,eJ.
    &--UJe date to guide deciJionJ, includingcreJll petternJ, tre,el behe,ior, end eon,munity
       concernJ.

2. EnhBnce Connection3 "ithi11 the City 811d Regio1111l De31i1111tions


    Improve ho.v people n,o,e arou11d Cotton.vood I leigl,ts by strengthening H11ks bet.. ccn neighborhoods,
    parks, seheels, llusinesses, anEI fflBjer reereatien BreBs !ilw the ''°''oso!eA ean~ens.Objectives·
          1 Expand opportunities tor walking bicycling and transit as viable travel options
          Ll!I\prove trail and sidewalk connections between and wjthjn neighborhoods for example
                   between school activity centers parks and regional destinations
          3        Improve trail and sidewalk connections between and within neighborhoods tor example
                   between school activity centers parks and regional destinations



    IEey ActionJ~:
          Policy 2,1: Plan and desiiw streets as multi modal facilities that consider pedestrians bicyclists,
          transit and vehicles
          2       IElentily fflisJing eenneetio,13 in siEte ..BlkJ, bike reutes, m1:1lli 1:1se ,iaths, BnEI tro11sitoeeess                                                                                                              7               Formatted: Indent Left 0.5", No bullets or
          Bnd inetlrperate theffl into ea,iitol ,ilanning.
          Policy 2,2· Improve connectivity of sidewalks trails and bikeways to create a more continuous and
          accessible network
                   1nnnoprtre'rloee-tifi.r,n~kss-ttto~r-.ec~gio.r,n1111hl
          ,ae,----11                                           fi                                                                                                                                                 ., -bbttu.,.srt,ottutttce;s".+'- -
                                                                        drf1c!!!J1ttiifl1111atttioo-,r,,,3",-i1i111t,c~lttuddii.r,n~g-ec1tall'nytttei t,il'lt:Nra,iiltlhnec11at!d.,.s11all'ndf!-t,rc,.g,i,io:11n,-11t!-l                               j Formatted: Indent Left: o.s •. N bullets or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        O

        Policy 2 3· Coordinate transp,onation improvements with transit providers to enhance access to
        regional transit services
    e--GeerEtino!e .. iltt regienol ,iortners te ens1:1fe fflojer eerrider plans im,ire,e oeeeJJ lhre1:1gh and
        .. itttin Gel!e,weed I leigh!s.
    ,;---lntegfOle .. oyfinding, signoge, onEI Elesign eleffleRtJ that hel,i ,ieo,ile no,igote !he eeffiffiuni~ fflere
          =itr,
    e--SupptJrt deocltJpmcnt p11ttcrns tl,ot in,pro,e internal circulation 111,d reduce barriers bch~ecR
       ncighborl,oods.



3   Protect Neighborhood UyabHity while Managing Traffic Provide Acces3ible, Reli11ble, 1111d lnclusi~e
    Tr11uel Options for All Ages 1111d Abilities


    Ens1:1fe fesiflcnts el oil ages oru:! abilities eon tro,el eemfertolll'y and feliolll~ lly ollefing o ,ariety el
    aeeessillle o,iliens, ir,eluding .. atking, biking, transit, rnlling, and driving.Objectives·
          1 Minimize cut-through.lraffic in residential neighborhoods
          2, Preserve neigtlborhood character while maintaining reasonable access and mobility


DRAFT   Cottonwood Heights General                         flltln-tflfill.1          Mission S t atement &                  Goals -12. 02.2025                                                                    Page      5   of 20
         3         Balance mobility on major corridors with access to adjacent neighborhoods and businesses.

                                                                                                                              •· -   -   Formatted : List Paragraph, Indent: Left: 0.75"


    l(ey Aetions£.o.licie.s:
         Policy 3.1: Use traffjc calming o□ erationat strategies and street design to discourage
         inappropriate through-traffic in residential areas
         Policy 3.2: Eyatuate transportation projects for their potential impacts on neighborhood oualjty of
         1if.e..
         Policy 3.3: Balance roadway capacity access and safety in corridor planning and jmproyement
         Jllille.c1s...
    e--EFthaFtee ADA Beeessibili!y iFt all pedestfiBFt 61jd lfBfl3it felBted f)fBjeets.
    e--'.Vofk "ith UTA to impmve tfaFtsit fe liability, stop BmeFtities, aFtd loeal cenFtectioRS.
    &-ExpaFtd aeti ve tfansportation netu~ofl<s (iVBlking, biking, mlling) "ith eomloft aFtd aeeessibility in
         ffltfttt:
    .,.........[ns11rc 1,eoo de~elopmentincorpor11tes 11cces3ible site design 111,d mobility optio11s lo1111111sers.
    e---"Pron, ote eei11it11ble t, 1111sport11tion llcce3S, c3pecilllly for seni ors, yot1th, 11nd individt111ls "ith
         1nobilit1 clillllcngcs.


4. Address Regional and canyon-Related Travel Through Coordinated, Sustainable Solutions~
    WBll<Bllle, People Foet1se!I Acti vity 6er,ters
    Pmmote t fanspoftlltion impfovements 11181 n,ake the fooon CeRlef, Union Pafk, and othef aeti~ity afeas
    Sllfc, iVlllkllble, Md easy to navigate, strcngtl,cningeon,n,11niti i dentity 11nd suppo,t loelll
    businesses.Objectives·

         1 Manage regional and canyon-bound traffjc in a way that minimizes local impacts
         2.......lmprove travel reliability and safety on major corridors serving canyon access
         3 Support alternatives to single-occupancy vehicle travel tor regional trips


    l(cy Aetions£.o.licie.s:
         Policy4 1· Coordinate with state regional and transit partners on transportation solutions
         affecting canyon access and regional travel
         PoUcy 4.2: Advocate for transit travel demand management and mtJ(tjmodal strategies that
         reduce congestion and neighborhood impacts
         Policy 4 a· Consider the wm11Jative impacts of regional travel on City streets when evaJ11ating
         transportation improvements
    e--Pfi<lfiti~e pedeslfiBn fflendly street desigR ifl TowR CeRtef, URiOR PBfl<, GfBvel Pit, and othef aeti,icy
         eeAfet3,
    ",--[Reoufage mixed use and .. alkable de~elopmeRt l<lfms lhBt efellte lively, sale, people Ofiented
         ~




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General l'!tttt-tflan.l. Mission Statement & Goals -12.02.2025                            Page 6 of 20
    .,,..-In ,p,ove 11,ulti1,1odel eccos to ectivil'g ce1Hers, i,,cluding Yi8lki11g routes, bike eccos, end trensit
         connections .
    .,.-IReefperete pleee rnekiRg clcrncRts such es lightiflg, stFcct trees, public eft, eRd pcdestfieR
         erneflitics.
    €'--Ceerdiflete lend use end trenspertetien se eeti,it) centers e,el,e into eenRected, ettrecti,e
         destinations.


5. Align transportation Investments with land Use. Economic Resiliency. and Community
    .c&nt.ers.Strengthen t4eighborhood Li~ability and Long l'e1111 eon,nrnnity Resilience


    Invest in trensportetiern irnpre,ernents thet enhance Reigt,borhoed eiuelity el life tedey .,hile supperting
    e resilient, ,ibrent, end adaptable eernrnuRit) ferthc luturc ..Q.Qjectives:
         1 Support walkable accessible activity centers and corridors
         2 Use transportation investments to reinforce redevelopment and economic vitality
         3 Adapt transportation planning to changing travel patterns and economic conditions
                                                                                                                                 Formatted: List Paragraph, Indent: Left: 0.75"


    l(e, ActiOM£ll.li.cies:
         Policy5 1· Coordinate transportation planning with land use decisions particularly in designated
         corridors and activity centers
         Policy 5.2: Prioritize transportation improvements that enhance access to businesses
         employment areas and mixed-use developments
         Poljcy5.3: Support flexible transportation strategies that respond to evolving work shopping and
         travel patterns
    .,.-Support contc~t sensitive street irnproven ,ents lh!!t enhe1,ce cM ,fort end se!cty in reside11tiel
         ~

    -Invest in 1011g tern, corridor pten,,il,g 11,81 prioritites 1,eighborhood eiuelity of life end future n,obilit;,
         -neet!s,
    ;;,--Promote trensportetien choices that reduce cengestien afld suppeft cleafler, healthier air.
    e---~1eintein eRd upgrade infrastructure ifl e .,ey thetsupperts resilient, reliable tre,cl e,crtirne.
         Engage neighborlieods to underst!!l'IO local issues, il'I ,i,rove c011,n ,ul'licetiol'I Ol'l tr111,sportetio,,
         pl11nning, !!l'ld supi,oft cornrnunit:i drivel'! solutio11s.




G. Creating a Connected, Efficient, and Sustainable Transportation system [sustainabjljty]
   The city aims to develop a safe connected and multi modal transportation system that improves
   access to daily destinations and reduces reliance on sjngle-occupant vehicles. Complete streets
   efficient land use and coordinated investments will support mobility public health air Quality and
   tong-term community resilience
   o Improve multimodal connectivity between neighborhoods employment centers schools parks
        and commercial areas.



DRAFT Cottonwood Heighls General Pttttt-tEla.oJ. Mission Statement & Goals · 12.02.2025                           Page 7 of 20
    ~ign streets as complete streets that safely accommodate pedestriaas...llkl(C.li.sts. transit users
        anct vehicles of au ages and abilities
    0   Reduce reliance on single-occupant vehicles by supporting active transportation transit
         partnerships and improved transit amenities
    0    Encourage land use patterns that reduce trip lengths and vehicle miles traveled supporting
         healthier lifestyles..aruli.rn.p.ua.li.t)(..
    o Implement strategies to reduce vehicle idling especially near schools parks and high-activity
        .c.orrid.PCS..
    .-. Support reduced and shared parking approaches in appropriate locations to encourage alternative
        !raDsportation modes and more efficient land use
    o Integrate transportation investments with land use and economic development goals to improve
         overall system efficiency and resilience




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights Generalf'tftn-tfllln.l Mission Statement & Goals -12.02.2025          Page 8 of 20
                                                                                                                        Commented [JS4]: How can the city use events to
!ECONOMIC DEVELOPMEN                                                                                                    promote economic development (i.e., Christmas
                                                                                                                        markets, festivals, etc.)

         "Cottonwood Heights aims to build a forward-thinking economy grounded in resilience,
         innovation, and fiscal responsibility that benefits residents, businesses, and visitors alike.
         The city strives to attract and retain businesses that align with its vision of a vibrant, livable,
         and environmentally conscious community, balancing new growth with the careful
         stewardship of its unique mountain environment. Building on its strong reputation,
         Cottonwood Heights will remain a premier office destination, retail hub, and desirable
         residential community with a wide range of high-quality housing options that meet the
         changing needs of residen ts and the workforce."

1. Enhance Local Access to Goods, Services, and Experiences to Capture Sales Tax Revenue
   Ensure Cottonwood Heights provides a diverse range of essential goods, services, and recreational
   experiences that meet the needs of residents and visitors, while capturing sales tax dollars and
    minimizing leakage to neighboring jurisdictions. This includes prioritizing experiential and
    entertainment-based retail, local dining, and outdoor recreational amenities that attract both loca ls
    and tourists, strengthening the local economy.

    Key Actions:
    o    Foster partnerships with local and regional economic development organizations to promote the
         city as a premier destination for business.
    o    Develop and expand retail options that serve both daily needs and unique experience-driven
         offerings.
    o    Identify market gaps and strategic development opportunities to recapture sales tax revenue that
         currently flows to neighboring cities.
    o    Leverage the city's tourism assets, including Big and Little Cottonwood Canyons, to attract visitors,
         boost local retail sales, and draw employers who value access to outdoor recreation.
    o    Enhance amenities for outdoor recreation, including improved access to trailheads, parking, and
         shuttle services, to support both local spending and tourism-driven economic growth.

2. Prioritize Economic Development in Strategic Commercial Areas
   Strengthen key commercial districts by using zoning, land use policy, and design standards to guide
    reinvestment, attract desired businesses, and enhance community character.

    Key Actions:
    o    Use zoning, land development regulations, and area-specific plans to identify and guide
         redevelopment opportunities in priority commercial zones, balancing high-quality urban design
         with practical parking and business needs.
    o    Establish policy frameworks and regulatory tools that encourage a desirable mix of retail, dining,
         entertainment, and services that meet the needs of both residents and visitors.




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Pll!n-tflan.l Mission Statement & Goals- 12.02.2025                      Page 9of 20
     o   Support adaptive reuse and context-sensitive redevelopment through clear standards and
         incentives that add community value while minimizing financial burdens on taxpayers.


3.   Support Redevelopment of Strategic Properties to Serve Both Residents and Visitors
     Use la nd-use policies, zoning tools, and regulatory guidance to encourage t he redevelopment of
     underutilized areas- such as the Gravel Pit-in ways that support community needs, enhance the
     visitor experience, and strengthen long-term economic vitality.


     Key Actions:
     o   Apply zoning updates, development standards, and voluntary Incentives to guide reinvestment
         toward land uses that benefit both residents and tourists.
     o   Establish planning frameworks- such as small area plans or form-based standards-to signal
         desired development outcomes and give clarity to property owners and developers.
     o   Coordinate infrastructure p lanning and connectivity requirements through the development review
         process to ensure new projects integrate well with surrounding neighborhoods and transportation
         networks.
     o   Use regulatory tools to balance parking needs with high-quality urban design and walkable site
         layouts.


4. Strengthen the City's Role as a ;Premier Office, Retail, and Residential CommunltyL _                            Commented [JS5]: Should retail be a priority moving
     Use land-use regulations, zoning tools, and development standards to support high-quality office               forward?

     environments, vibrant retail areas, and a diverse range of housing options that meet the evolving needs
     of residents and the regional workforce.


     Key Actions:
     o   Update zoning districts, permitted uses, and development standards to support modern office
         spaces, vibrant commercial areas, and diverse housing options that strengthen long-term
         community and economic resilience .
     o   Develop planning frameworks-such as small area plans, overlay districts, or form -based
         standards-to clearly define desired development patterns for property owners and developers.
     o   Promote reinvestment in aging office and commercial areas through flexible regulations and clear
         design expectations that encourage high-quality, sustainable redevelopment.
     o   Refine housing regulations to strategically allow a range of high-quality, attainable, and workforce-
         oriented housing types while maintaining compatibility with existing neighborhoods.
     2._Coordinate with transportation and infrastructure partners to ensure new development is
         accessible, well-connected, and consistent with the city's mountain-suburban character.


s    Supporting a Resilient, Diverse. and Future-Ready Local Economy [sustainability]
     The city aims to foster a resilient and diverse local economy through targeted redevelopment business
     support and efficient use of existing infrastruct11re Innovation workforce development energy
     etficiency and ouality-ot-lite investments will attract and retain businesses create jobs and support
     long-termeconomic stability,


DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Phttt--t£lan.l Mission Statement & Goals -12.02.2025               Page 10 of 20
    o     Encourage redevelopment and rei nvestment in targeted areas to strengthen the tax base while
          efficiently using existing infrastructure
    "     Support local businesses entrepreneurship, and innovation particularly those aligned with energy
          efficiency clean technology and sustainable practices
    n     Diversity city revenue sources by attracting a balanced mix of employment commercial and
          mixed-use development
    o     Partner regionally to support workforce development job training and emerging industries
          including clean energy and green technologies
    ,·,   Align public infrastructure investments with long-term economic sustainability goals prioritizing
          projects that improve ciuality of life and economic competitiveness
    .-,   Promote energy-efficient buildings and operations as a cost-saying strategy for businesses and
          long-term economic resilience
    ,.,   Enhance the city's ouaHty of life mobility options and recreational amenities to attract and retain
          businesses workers and investment




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Ptffi-tflan.1 Mission Statement & Goals• 12.02.2025               Page l l of 20
WATER USE & PRESERVATION [ADOPTED]
         "Through proactive p lanning, Cottonwood Heights aims for a future characterized by vibrant
        Activity Centers, along with thoughtful infill and redevelopment, ensuring the preservation of
         its natural beauty and the quality of its neighborhoods. The city will focus on transforming
         existing commercial areas, like Union Park and Old Mill Corporate Centers, into vibrant,
         mixed-use Activity Centers which off er diverse commercial, retail, and cultural services,
         prioritizing pedestrian and transit accessibility. This strategic vision will strengthen the local
         economy while seamlessly integrating natural open spaces. A key element of this future will
         be to ensure that evolving land use patterns continue to support a sustainable water future."


1. Become a Water Wise Leader & Track Progress on Sust ainability Goals


    Key Actions:
         o    Review implementation progress and measurable outcomes from the lnterlocal
              Sustainability Action Plan to guide next steps and assess progress made.
         o    Retrofit ~ ity facilities and parks with smart irrigation, low-flow fixtures, and drought-
              tolerant landscaping.
         o    Use the Town Center and Activity Centers as visible examples of water-wise design and
              green infrastructure.
         o    Require water-efficient standards for all new or renovated ~ ity-led development
              projects.
         o    Integrate educational signage into public spaces to highlight water-saving practices and
              engage the community.


ir.Z...Strengthen Collaborative Efforts


    Key Actions:
         o    Establish a structured communication process between Cottonwood Heights and
              SLCDPU, such as regular coordination meetings or a standing liaison role, to ensure
              consistent updates, shared planning eff orts, and improved responsiveness to mutual
              needs.
         o    Co-host water conservation workshops, community events, and outreach campaigns.
              Leverage SLCDPU's commun ication tools and expertise to engage residents in water-
              wise practices and promote rebate or incentive programs available through Utah Water
              Savers.
         .2...._ln partnership with SLCDPU, identify a set of shared water conservation goals-
              grounded in the updated SLCDPU Water Conservation Plan-and commit to
              coordinated action toward achieving them. Use these goals to shape ~ ity




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General P!efl---tfl.ao...l Mission Statement & Goals• 12.02.2025               Page 12 of 20
         o    initiatives, inform program priorities, and ensure alignment between local efforts and
              utility-led conservation strategies.


b..._lntegrate Water Conservation into All Stages of the Land Development Process


    Key Actions:
         o    Implement comprehensive zoning, municipal codes, and land development standards
              that mandate water-efficient practices at the time of construction, including limited
              lawn areas, efficient fixtures, and smart irrigation systems. Reinforce conservation
              through post-occupancy standards like landscape maintenance guidelines.
         o    Utilize tools such as overlay zoning to clearly defi ne and protect areas designated for
              environmental conservation while guiding urban growth into appropriate, water-
              conscious zones.
         o    Actively promote and incentivize infill development to optimize existing infrastructure,
              reduce sprawl, and minimize new water infrastructure demands.
         o    Plan for and incorporate green infrastructure solutions (e.g., permeable surfaces, rain
              gardens, bioswates) within development projects to manage stormwater, recharge
              groundwater, and reduce reliance on potable water for irrigation.
         o    Integrate the findings and goats of this chapter with land use, transportation, recreation
              and other elements to ensure water conservation is uniformly addressed as part of the
              design and implementation of future neighborhoods, districts, roadways and
              infrast ructure projects.
         o    Review and remove barriers to water conservation, avoiding redundant standards or
              incentives. Implement robust incentive programs, such as fee rebates, reductions, or
              waivers for developers adopting water conservation measures, and pair these with
              procedural benefits like expedited permitting.
         o    Develop and enforce post-occupancy standards that encourage ongoing water
              efficiency, including requirements for post-occupancy documentation related to water-
              saving practices.
         o    Strengthen Water Adequacy in Subdivision Regulations:
                        Draft a clear statement of purpose and intent for subdivision regulations that
                        explicitly includes water conservation and efficiency.
                        Require documentation of water supply adequacy in preliminary plat
                        applications.
                        Mandate referral of applications to relevant water agencies for review and
                        approval.
                        Withhold final plat approval until confirmation of adequate and sustainable
                        water supply is received .




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Plftft-tElan..J. Mission Statement & Goals - 12.02.2025             Page 13 of 20
WATER USE & PRESERVATION [PROPOSED]
         "Our mission is to safeguard Cottonwood Heights' interests in a secure and resilient water
         future by responsibly exercising the r;:6ity's authority over land use and development policy.
         We are committed to protecting the vital regional watershed and empowering our residents
         and businesses to make informed, water-wise choices that reduce overall demand. Through
         sound planning and strong partnerships, we aim to ensure that community development
         remains manageable and is supported by available resources, promoting a culture of
         voluntary conservation and stewardship."

1. Empower the Community Through Education, Outreach, and Voluntary Water Conservation
    Cottonwood Heights will foster a culture of water stewardship by providing accessible education, tools,
    and incentives that help residents and businesses make informed, voluntary choices to reduce water
    use. Through ongoing outreach and partnerships, the city will celebrate community achievements and
    expand conservation awareness across all neighborhoods.


    Key Actions:
    o    Promote existing rebate and incentive programs, such as Utah Water Savers and subsidized rain
         barrel distributions, through ~ ity communication channels.
    o    Feature regular "Water Tip of the Month" content in €.i;ity newsletters, social media, and public
         signage to provide practical, actionable conservation advice.
    o    Use i;.€ ity newsletters, workshops, and outreach programs to share ongoing water conservation
         efforts and encourage voluntary actions among residents.
    o    Support and promote resident-led initiatives like tree planting and pollinator gardens that exemplify
         water-wise landscaping principles.
    o    Develop and publish annual reports highlighting community participation in water conservation
         programs to raise awareness and celebrate successes.
    e--Expand outreach by collaborating with a broader range of local organizations to reach diverse and
         under-served community members.
    0

    o    Continue and expand partnership-based water-wise landscaping workshops in collaboration with
         SLCDPU and JVWCD.
    e--Explore opportunities to partner with SLCDPU and JVWCD to provide water-wise education and
         training for i;.€ ity staff and Public Works personnel, including contractor certifications, Localscapes
         classes, and resources like QWEL.net.
    0

    o    Develop a suite of user-friendly digital platforms and interactive tools that empower residents to
         make informed water-wise decisions, such as a monthly water use and preservation newsletter,
         printable guides and checklists, social media campaigns, virtual workshops, water-use calculators,
         etc.




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Pl!!n-tflilll..l Mission Statement & Goals - 12.02.2025             Page 14of 20
    o    Foster a culture of water stewardship through community recognition programs, awards, or friendly
         competitions that celebrate and incentivize efficient water use.


2. Lead by Example In Water Efficiency and Community Stewardship
    The city will model responsible water use in its own facilities, parks, and public spaces, demonstrating
    the effectiveness of water-wise design and operational practices. By integrating conservation into civic
    projects and sharing transparent progress updates, Cottonwood Heights will inspire similar actions
    throughout the community.


    Key Actions:
    o    Review progress and measurable outcomes from the lnterlocal Sustainability Action Plan to guide
         J;6ity water stewardship initiatives.
    -    integrate educational signage in public spaces such as parks, trailheads, and City Hall to promote
         awareness of water-saving practices.
    0

    &-Encourage the adoption of water-efficient design standards for new or renovated i;6 ity-led
         development projects wherever feasible.
    0

    o    Retrofiti;6ityfacilities and parks with smart irrigation systems, low-flow fixtures, and drought-
         tolerant landscaping as budgets and staff capacity allow.
    o    Use the Town Center and Activity Centers as visibl e, inspirational examples of water-wise design
         and green infrastructure.
    o    Work with SLCOPU and JVWCD to provide regular, t ransparent updates on water conservation
         progress to maintain community engagement and trust.


3. Strengthen Collaborative Efforts and Promote Fair Water Management
    Cottonwood Heights will deepen its partnerships with water providers and regional agencies to align
    conservation goals, improve communication, and enhance shared planning efforts. Through open
    dialogue on water use, affordability, and data needs, the ~ ity w A f - ~support fair and effective
    water management for all residents.


    Key Actions:
    o    Establish structured communication processes with SLCDPU, such as regular coordination
         meetings or a liaison role, to enhance shared planning and responsiveness.
    o    Partner with SLCDPU to co-host water conservation workshops, community events, and outreach
         cam paigns leveraging utility expertise and resources.
    er-Engage in open and transparent dialogue about water pricing and issues of fairness and
         affordability to better understand and address resident concerns, recognizing that pricing authority
         lies with the utility.
    0

    o    Collaborate with SLCDPU to identify shared water conservation goals grounded in the updated
         Water Conservation Plan (2025), ensuring alignment of 6 i;ity initiatives with utility-led efforts.



DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Pttm-tfla!l..l Mission Statement & Goals - 12.02.2025                 Page 15 of 20
    o !coordinate with Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities to obtain water usage data specific to
         Cottonwood Heights.~ - - - - - --                                                                                      Commented [JS6]: II would be helpful for this to
                                                                                                                                address usage based on land use type {commercial,
                                                                                                                                residential, industrial, civic).
4. Integrate Water Conservation into the Land Development and Redevelopment Process
    The city will work to strengthen and refine water-efficient standards within its development regulations
    to help guide growth in a manner that conserves water resources and supports long-term sustainability.
    Through coordinated requirements enco1uagement of iofHl development and the integration of green
    infrastructure the City seeks to ensure that new development contributes to a resilient and secure
    water fulllre 1vill l1 ,eorr,or8te 0i8!cr efficient st8nd8rds into dcvclor,111cnt rcgul8tio11s to guide gro.vtl, in
    fl nfly lhflt eeF1Jerve3 feJeuree3 flflei 3uppefl3 leF1g terffl 3U3loineailily. By J!reflffllifliflg fel:jUife ffleflt3,
    eF1eeurngiF1g iF1fiH, aflel i:,refl~eting gfeefl iflffeslfuetUfe, Cetlen.. eeel I !eights .. ill ensufe Re"
    de,elei:,fflent eentfiautes to a seeufe Ofld resilient .. alerfutufe.

    Key Actions:
    o Review and update land development standards to incorporate water-efficient practices and
        policies.
    e--Review and remove barriers to water conservation (such as unnecessary or conflicting regulations,
        complex procedures, and overlapping or ineffective incentives) to ensure clear, consistent
        standards that encourage effective water-saving practices.
    0

    o    Actively promote and incentivize infill development to optimize existing infrastructure.
    o    Plan for and incorporate green infrastructure solutions (e.g., permeable surfaces, rain gardens,
         bioswales) within development projects to manage stormwater, recharge groundwater, improve
         water quality by filtering runoff, and reduce reliance on potable water for irrigation.

s   Ensuring Long-Term Wate.r..S.u.slaioab.ili!y.Thm.ugh Land Use and Design [sustainability]
    The city promotes land use and development patterns that align with long -term water availability and
    encourage effjcient compact growth lo support of these land use patterns the city encourages
    strategies such as water-wise landscaping green infrastructure and community education to help
    reduce overall water demand and support a resilient water future
    n Align land use and development decisions with the city's available and projected water supply
    a Promote water-efficient development patterns including higheI=.d.eo.sity housing and compact
        development where appropriate
    .-, Require and encourage low-impact landscaping native and drought-tolerant plaotiogs and
        efficient irrigation systems io public and private projects
         Red, ice stormwater wooff through green iofrastruclll(e including bioswales rain gardens
         permeable surfaces and tree preservation.
    o Encourage redevelopment that reduces overall water demand compared to existing uses
    0    Lead by example by incorporating water-efficient practices into city facilities parks and public




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Ptltft--tfllln.J. Mission Statement & Goals -12.02.2025                        Page 16 of 20
         Educate residents and businesses on the retationship_between land use wate r use andJong::term
         community resilience




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Pttm-t£lau..l Mission S1a1emenl & Goals - 12.02.2025         Page 17 of 20
RECREATION
         "Cottonwood Heights is commirted to enhancing quality of life through a balanced,
         sustainable, and connected system of parks, trails, and recreational opportunities that
         reflect the city's mountain-suburban character. Through thoughtful planning, environmental
         stewardship, and co//aboration with regional partners, the city works to preserve open
         spaces, protect natural resources, expand access to the outdoors, and encourage active,
         healthy lifestyles."

1. Maximize Existing Recreational Opportunities
     Cottonwood Heights will prioritize maintaining and modernizing its existing parks and trail s, ensuring
     they remain high-quality, sustainable, and aligned with regional canyon-access planning.


     Key Actions:
     o   Align master plans with the forthcoming Tri-Canyon Trails Plan created by the U.S. Forest Service
         {USFS). Collaborate with USFS and private l andowners to maintain and improve access to canyons.
     o   Modernize existing parks with updated infrastructure, equipment, and landscape treatments,
         guided by neighborhood-level planning and community input
     o   Prioritize the protection, upkeep, and improvement of existing parks, trails, and facilities before
         developing new ones, where feasible.
     o   Promote sustainable recreational development and enhancements such as low-impact
         development, energy-efficient design, and waterwise landscaping for both new and existing
         facilities.


2. Expand Recreational Opportunities
     The citywills1dlle.lo..strategically add new parks, pocket parks, and trail connections to create a more
     complete, comfortable, and connected recreational network.


     Key Actions:
     o   Apply "complete streets" principles to trail and streetscape design- incorporating amenities like
         benches, lighting, signage, and landscaping to improve comfort, safety, and usability.
     o   Develop pocket parks in under-served areas where larger parks may not be feasible.
     o   Extend and connect existing trail networks to surrounding neighborhoods to create a more
         comprehensive recreational infrastructure.


3.   Enhance Accessibility of Recreational Spaces
     Cottonwood Heights will .s1rilll:..l!limprove accessibility and connectivity by upgrading facilities,
     enhancing key walking and biking routes, and ensuring parks and trails are usable for people of all ages
     and abilities.




DRAFT Cottonwood Heigh ts General Plttn-tetao..l. Mission Statement & Goals• 12.02.2025                Page 18of 20
   Key Actions:
   o       Retrofit existing parks and recreational facilities to meet or exceed ADA standards, ensuring that all
           residents can access them.__
   o       Implement neighborhood and ~                      trail and pathway enhancements that result in a
           fully- connected and accessible trail system.
   o       Improve neighborhood connectivity by identifying and enhancing walking routes, pathways, and
           trail connections that link residents to nearby recreational amenities,
   o       Develop and maintain safe, neighborhood-appropriate walking and biking paths, ensuring that
           routes are comfortable, well-designed and suitable for a variety of users,
   o       Enhance lighting along key paths and trail corridors to improve safety, visibility, and usability, while
           being mindful of dark-sky goals,
   o       Inventory, maintain, and increase publicly accessible pedestrian cut-throughs to connect
           neighborhoods to each other and to community amenities. Evaluate existing cut-throughs for safety
           and accessibility.


4. !Preserve Open Space ~ - - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - - -- -- - - - - -- -                                                  -   Commented [JS7J: Make distinction between private
    The city will continue to prioritize the~ and steward.ship_-m.ot natural open spaces oo                                      and public land. Consider using easements on private
                                                                                                                                 land where appropriate to achieve goals.
   public lands while supporting conservation efforts on tolllil(ll.te prpperty such as the use of
   conservation or access easement where appropriate to preserve ecological health, safeguard public
   access, and maintain its mountain-suburban character all while maintaining private property eights.

   Key Actions:
   Q__Protect and maintain public access to open spaces, including canyons and trails within city
      boundaries.
   o    Promote the access to and acquisition ot private lanct(s) for trails and trail heads via easements and
        "right-of-way" designations
   o Prioritize long-term preseNation of natural and scenic resources through__p_u__b_lk land-use policies,
        partnerships, and stewardship efforts.
   2..._Ensure open spaces remain ecologically healthy and resilient by supporting practices that protect
        habitats, reduce erosion, and maintain watershed functions.

s, Providi ng Sustainable and Connected Recreational Opportunities [sustainability]
   The city promotes equitable connected and sustainable access to parks trails and recreational
   amenities throughout Cottonwood Heights It supports public health community well-being and long-
   term recreational needs through resource-etficient design protection of natural features and
   coordinated planning,_
   ,-,     Ensure equitable access to parks trails and recreationaUacilities for all neighborhoods and at¼
           gro_yps..
   o       Expand and enhance the citywide trail and open space network to support recreation active
           transportation and environmental protection
   _o__D_esign parks and recreational facilities to minimize water and energy.use, using efficient irrigation
       native landscaping and sustainable materials


DRAFT    Cottonwood Heights Gener a l   l'tt!n-tBan.l   Mission Statement &   Goals- 12.02.2025        Page   19   of   20
    o Protect and integrate natural features and open spaces into the recreatiQll.S_y_stem to enhance
      environmental stewardship and community health
    o Prioritize redevelopment and enhancement of existing parks while strategically adding new
      facilities to meet future needs.
      Support recreational amenities that promote public health social interaction and quality of life
      mtrib..uting to social sustainability
    o Coordinate recreation planning with land use and transportation to ensure safe convenient and
      connected access




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Plfttt-tfl.an..1 Mission Statement & Goals• 12.02.2025       Page 20 of 20
NOTE: This is a "clean" document reflecting the edits made since the last Joint Work Session on
December 2, 2025.




LAND USE
         "Cottonwood Heights will promote thoughtful, targeted development that strengthens our
        city, protects private property rights, drives economic opportunities, and helps create a
        vibrant and distinctive sense of place for residents and landowners. The city will facilitate the
         improvement of multimodal connections between homes, businesses, and recreational
        areas. The city will foster a strong local economy, vibrant commercial districts, and a
        community-oriented Towne Center. Clear and purposeful land use designations will guide
        development in a way that enhances property values and aligns with the city's long-term
        vision. By streamlining development processes, collaborating with public and private
        partners, and leveraging city-owned assets, the Cottonwood Heights will create a more
        connected, accessible, and prosperous future for residents, landowners, businesses, and
        visitors."

1. Targeted, High-Quality Development and Redevelopment
    The city will work toward focusing growth and reinvestment in strategic areas to support community
    character, mixed-use development, and overall development quality. Zoning updates and targeted
    incentives may be considered to help guide redevelo pment and advance economic and place-making
    objectives.


    Key Actions:
    o   Prioritize development and redevelopment in t argeted areas.
    o   Update zoning code to provide more high-quality development outcomes.
    o    Encourage reinvestment in underutilized commercial areas and aging properties.
    o   Provide incentives for projects that align with citywide planning goals.
    o   Promote development that supports a mix of uses where appropriate.


2. Streamlined, Predictable, and Fair Development Processes
    Cottonwood Heights aims to modernize its development review procedures to promote clarity, fa irness,
    and efficiency for applicants and residents. Objective standards and improved coordination will reduce
    delays and create greater predictability.


    Key Actions:
    o   Simplify the development review process t o reduce delays and increase transparency.
    o   Remove outdated, redundant, or unclear regulations that do not contribute to health, safety, or
        welfare.




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Plan I Mission Statement & Goals -12.02.2025                          Page 1 of 17
    o    Establish clear, objective approval standards to protect private property rights and reduce
         uncertainty.
    o    Create fast-track development review pathways for projects compliant with adopted land use maps
         and zoning.
    o    Improve coordination among city departments to enhance customer service and efficiency.


3. Strengthen Neighborhood Character and Land Use Compatibility
    New development will enhance neighborhood character through context-sensitive design, appropriate
    transitions, and pedestrian-friendly site layouts. This approach will ensure infill and redevelopment
    contribute positively to the city's unique sense of place.


    Key Actions:
    o    Support development that fosters the future vision of the city and its unique sense of place.
    o    Encourage developers to implement context-sensitive transitions using buffering, landscaping,
         building massing, and site design. [Mitigating secondary impacts].
    o    Promote walkability, pedestrian-friendly design, and connections within and between
         neighborhoods.
    o    Encourage infill development that aligns with the city's future vision.


4. Expand Connectivity and Access to Community Amenities
    The City will support and pursue improvements to multi modal connections between homes,
    businesses, and recreation areas to strengthen mobility and access. Investments in trails, transit
    partnerships, and public amenities will create a more integrated and accessible community.


    Key Actions:
    o    Improve pedestrian and bicycle infrastructure, including trails, sidewalks, and safe crossings.
    o    Coordinate with public agencies to expand transit access and improve system integration.
    o    Leverage city-owned or public lands to increase parks, civic amenities, and trail linkages.
    o    Pursue grants and partnerships for land acquisition, open space, and recreation improvements.


5. Support a Resilient, Diverse, and Vibrant Local Economy
    Cottonwood Heights aims to strengthen key commercial districts and support the creation of flexible,
    innovative spaces that contribute to business attraction and retention. Economic development
    strategies may be used to support residents, visitors, employees, and long-term fiscal sustainability.


    Key Actions:
    o    Reinforce key economic centers on the east and west sides of the city.
    o    Develop the Towne Center as a community-oriented hub with neighborhood-serving businesses.
    o    Encourage flexible commercial spaces such as incubators, mixed-use buildings, and startup-
        friendly environments.
    o    Promote development in areas with visibility and traffic patterns that support economic success.
    o    Strengthen relationships with business owners, developers, and regional economic partners.


DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Plan I Mission Statement & Goals -12.02.2025                          Page 2 of 17
    o    Coordinate early with public stakeholders on major projects affecting city residents.


6. Embedding Sustainability into Growth and Development Patterns [sustainability]
    The city intends to guide its pursuit of sustainability by promoting compact, walkable, and well-
    connected development patterns that minimize environmental impacts and reduce reliance on
    automobiles. The City's approach aims to balance redevelopment and housing diversity with the
    protection of natural resources and the preservation of Cottonwood Heights' distinctive community
    character.
    o    Support and encourage growth toward compact, walkable, mixed-use infill and redevelopment in
         activity centers, corridors, and transit-served areas to reduce environmental impacts and
         infrastructure costs.
    o    Promote land use patterns that reduce vehicle dependence, shorten trip lengths, and support daily
         needs within close proximity.
    o    Seek to protect open space, foothills, riparian corridors, sensitive habitats, and natural lands
         through land use designations, development standards, and conservation practices.
    o    Encourage sustainable site planning and building design, including orientation for passive solar
         gain, reduced impervious surfaces, and integration of low-impact landscaping.
    o    Support a range of housing types that meet the needs of all life stages and income levels while
         efficiently using land and infrastructure.
    o    Encourage connectivity between developments and surrounding neighborhoods, emphasizing
         pedestrian, bicycle, and trail connections.
    o    Strive to balance redevelopment and intensification with design compatibility that respects
         neighborhood character and Cottonwood Heights' identity.




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights Genera l Plan I Mission Statement & Goals - 12.02.2025                       Page 3 of 17
TRANSPORTATION
        "Provide a safe, balanced, and multimodal transportation system that supports Cottonwood
        Heights' quality of life, protects neighborhood character, strengthens economic vitality, and
        responsibly manages regional and canyon-related travel while improving mobility for
        residents of all ages and abilities." (Citizen engagement during foundational concepts)

1. Improve Safety for all Users of the Transportation System


    Objectives
        1.    Redu ce serious injuries and fatalities within Cottonwood Heights' boundary.
        2. Adopt Safe Systems Approach (SSA) prioritizing projects and policy that measurably
              improve safety.
        3.    Design streets that create visual friction and reduce conflict between vehicles,
              pedestrians, bicyclists, and transit.

    Policies:
        Policy 1.1: Prioritize safety improvements in transportation planning, design, and capital
        investment decisions.
        Policy 1.2: Support street designs and traffic management strategies that reduce vehicle speeds
        where appropriate, particularly near neighborhoods, schools, parks, and commercial areas.
         Policy 1.3: Incorporate pedestrian and bicycle safety considerations into roadway, intersection,
         and redevelopment projects.


2. Provide a Balanced Transportation System that Supports Multiple Modes of Travel


    Objectives:
         1.   Expand opportunities for walking, bicycling, and transit as viable travel options.
         2.   Improve trail and sidewalk connections between and within neighborhoods, for example
              between school, activity centers, parks, and regional destinations.
         3.   Improve trail and sidewalk connections between and within neighborhoods, fo r example
              between school, activity centers, parks, and regional destinations.


    Policies:
         Policy 2.1: Plan and design streets as multi modal facilities that consider pedestrians, bicyclists,
         transit, and vehicles.
         Policy 2.2: Improve connectivity of sidewalks, trails, and bikeways to create a more continuous and
         accessible network.
         Policy 2.3: Coordinate transportation improvements with transit providers to enhance access to
         regional transit services.




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Plan I Mission Statement & Goals - 12.02.2025                        Page4 of 17
3. Protect Neighborhood Livability while Managing Traffic


    Objectives:
         1.      Minimize cut-through traffic in residential neighborhoods.
         2.      Preserve neighborhood character while maintaining reasonable access and mobility.
         3.      Balance mobility on major corridors with access to adjacent neighborhoods and businesses.


    Policies:
         Policy 3.1: Use traffic calming, operational strategies, and street design to discourage
         inappropriate through-traffic in residential areas.
         Policy 3.2: Evaluate transportation projects for their potential impacts on neighborhood quality of
         life.
         Policy 3.3: Balance roadway capacity, access, and safety in corridor planning and improvement
         projects.


4. Address Regional and Canyon-Related Travel Through Coordinated, Sustainable Solutions
    Objectives:


         1.      Manage regional and canyon-bound traffic in a way that minimizes local impacts.
        2.       Improve travel reliability and safety on major corridors serving canyon access.
         3.      Support alternatives to single-occupancy vehicle travel for regional trips.


    Policies:
         Policy 4.1: Coordinate with state, regional, and transit partners on transportation solutions
         affecting canyon access and regional travel.
         Policy 4.2: Advocate for transit, travel demand management, and multi modal strategies that
         reduce congestion and neighborhood impacts.
         Policy 4.3: Consider the cumulative impacts of regional travel on City streets when evaluating
        transportation improvements.


5. Align transportation Investments with land Use, Economic Resiliency, and Community Centers


    Objectives:
         1.      Support walkable, accessible activity centers and corridors.
        2.       Use transportation investments to reinforce redevelopment and economic vitality.
        3.       Adapt transportation planning to changing travel patterns and economic conditions.


    Policies:
         Policy 5.1: Coordinate transportation planning with land use decisions, particularly in designated
         corridors and activity centers.




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Plan I Mission Statement & Goals• 12.02.2025                         Page 5 of 17
    •    Policy 5.2: Prioritize transportation improvements that enhance access to businesses,
         employment areas, and mixed-use developments.
    •    Policy 5.3: Support flexible transportation strategies that respond to evolving work, shopping, and
         travel patterns.




6. Creating a Connected, Efficient, and Sustainable Transportation System [sustainability]
    The city aims to develop a safe, connected, and multimodal transportation system that improves
    access to daily destinations and reduces reliance on single-occupant vehicles. Complete streets,
    efficient land use, and coordinated investments will support mobility, public health, air quality, and
    long-term community resilience.
    o    Improve multimodal connectivity between neighborhoods, employment centers, schools, parks,
         and commercial areas.
    o    Design streets as complete streets that safely accommodate pedestrians, bicyclists, transit users,
         and vehicles of all ages and abilities.
    o    Reduce reliance on single-occupant vehicles by supporting active transportation, transit
         partnerships, and improved transit amenities.
    o    Encourage land use patterns that reduce trip lengths and vehicle miles traveled, supporting
         healthier lifestyles and improved air quality.
    o    Implement strategies to reduce vehicle idling, especially near schools, parks, and high-activity
         corridors.
    o    Support reduced and shared parking approaches in appropriate locations to encourage alternative
         transportation modes and more efficient land use.
    o    Integrate transportation investments with land use and economic development goals to improve
         overall system efficiency and resilience.




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Plan I Mission Statement & Goals - 12.02.2025                       Page 6 of 17
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
         "Cottonwood Heights aims to build a forward-thinking economy grounded in resilience,
        innovation, and fiscal responsibility that benefits residents, businesses, and visitors alike.
         The city strives to attract and retain businesses that align with its vision of a vibrant, livable,
        and environmentally conscious community, balancing new growth with the careful
        stewardship of its unique mountain environment. Building on its strong reputation,
         Cottonwood Heights will remain a premier office destination, retail hub, and desirable
        residential community with a wide range of high-quality housing options that meet the
         changing needs of residents and the workforce."

1. Enhance Local Access to Goods, Services, and Experiences to Capture Sales Tax Revenue
    Ensure Cottonwood Heights provides a diverse range of essential goods, services, and recreational
    experiences that meet the needs of residents and visitors, while capturing sales tax dollars and
    minimizing leakage to neighboring jurisdictions. This includes prioritizing experiential and
    entertainment-based retail, local dining, and outdoor recreational amenities that attract both locals
    and tourists, strengthening the local economy.


    Key Actions:
    o    Foster partnerships with local and regional economic development organizations to promote the
         city as a premier destination for business.
    o    Develop and expand retail options that serve both daily needs and unique experience-driven
         offerings.
    o    Identify market gaps and strategic development opportunities to recapture sales tax revenue that
         currently flows to neighboring cities.
    o    Leverage the city's tourism assets, including Big and Little Cottonwood Canyons, to attract visitors,
         boost local retail sales, and draw employers who value access to outdoor recreation.
    o    Enhance amenities for outdoor recreation, including improved access to trailheads, parking, and
         shuttle services, to support both local spending and tourism-driven economic growth.


2. Prioritize Economic Development in Strategic Commercial Areas
    Strengthen key commercial districts by using zoning, land use policy, and design standards to guide
    reinvestment, attract desired businesses, and enhance community character.


    Key Actions:
    o    Use zoning, land development regulations, and area-specific plans to identify and guide
         redevelopment opportunities in priority commercial zones, balancing high-quality urban design
        with practical parking and business needs.
    o    Establish policy frameworks and regulatory tools that encourage a desirable mix of retail, dining,
         entertainment, and services that meet the needs of both residents and visitors.




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Plan I Mission Statement & Goals• 12.02.2025                              Page7 of 17
    o   Support adaptive reuse and context-sensitive redevelopment through clear standards and
        incentives that add community value while minimizing financial burdens on taxpayers.


3. Support Redevelopment of Strategic Properties to Serve Both Residents and Visitors
    Use land-use policies, zoning tools, and regulatory guidance to encourage the redevelopment of
    underutilized areas-such as the Gravel Pit-in ways that support community needs, enhance the
    visitor experience, and strengthen long-term economic vitality.


    Key Actions:
    o   Apply zoning updates, development standards, and voluntary incentives to guide reinvestment
        toward land uses that benefit both residents and tourists.
    o   Establish planning frameworks- such as small area plans or form-based standards-to signal
        desired development outcomes and give clarity to property owners and developers.
    o   Coordinate infrastructure planning and connectivity requirements through the development review
        process to ensure new projects integrate well with surrounding neighborhoods and transportation
        networks.
    o   Use regulatory tools to balance parking needs with high-quality urban design and walkable site
        layouts.


4. Strengthen the City's Role as a Premier Office, Retail, and Residential Community
    Use land-use regulations, zoning tools, and development standards to support high-quality office
    environments, vibrant retail areas, and a diverse range of housing options that meet the evolving needs
    of residents and the regional workforce.


    Key Actions:
    o   Update zoning districts, permitted uses, and development standards to support modern office
        spaces, vibrant commercial areas, and diverse housing options that strengthen long-term
        community and economic resilience.
    o    Develop planning frameworks-such as small area plans, overlay districts, or form-based
        standards-to clearly define desired development patterns for property owners and developers.
    o    Promote reinvestment in aging office and commercial areas through flexible regulations and clear
        design expectations that encourage high-quality, sustainable redevelopment.
    o    Refine housing regulations to strategically allow a range of high-quality, attainable, and workforce-
         oriented housing types while maintaining compatibility with existing neighborhoods.
    o    Coordinate with transportation and infrastructure partners to ensure new development is
         accessible, well-connected, and consistent with the city's mountain-suburban character.


5. Supporting a Resilient, Diverse, and Future-Ready Local Economy [sustainability]
    The city aims to foster a resilient and diverse local economy through targeted redevelopment, business
    support, and efficient use of existing infrastructure. Innovation, workforce development, energy
    efficiency, and quality-of-life investments will attract and retain businesses, create jobs, and support
    long-term economic stability.


DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Plan I Mission Statement & Goals -12.02.2025                        Page Sot 17
    o    Encourage redevelopment and reinvestment in targeted areas to strengthen the tax base while
         efficiently using existing infrastructure.
    o    Support local businesses, entrepreneurship, and innovation , particularly those aligned with energy
         efficiency, clean technology, and sustainable practices.
    o    Diversify city revenue sources by attracting a balanced mix of employment, commercial, and
         mixed-use development.
    o    Partner regionally to support workforce development, job training, and emerging industries,
         including clean energy and green technologies.
    o    Align public infrastructure investments with long-term economic sustainability goals, prioritizing
         projects that improve quality of life and economic competitiveness.
    o    Promote energy-efficient buildings and operations as a cost-saving strategy for businesses and
         long-term economic resilience.
    o    Enhance the city's quality of life, mobility options, and recreational amenities to attract and retain
         businesses, workers, and investment.




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Plan I Mission Statement & Goals - 12.02.2025                         Page 9 of 17
WATER USE & PRESERVATION [ADOPTED]
         "Through proactive planning, Cottonwood Heights aims for a future characterized by vibrant
        Activity Centers, along with thoughtful infill and redevelopment, ensuring the preservation of
        its natural beauty and the quality of its neighborhoods. The city will focus on transforming
        existing commercial areas, like Union Park and Old Mill Corporate Centers, into vibrant,
        mixed-use Activity Centers which off er diverse commercial, retail, and cultural services,
        prioritizing pedestrian and transit accessibility. This strategic vision will strengthen the local
        economy while seamlessly integrating natural open spaces. A key element of this future will
        be to ensure that evolving land use patterns continue to support a sustainable water future."


1. Become a Water Wise Leader & Track Progress on Sustainability Goals


     Key Actions:
         o   Review implementation progress and measurable outcomes from the lnterlocal
             Sustainability Action Plan to guide next steps and assess progress made.
         o   Retrofit city facilities and parks with smart irrigation, low-flow fixtures, and drought-
             tolerant landscaping.
         o   Use the Town Center and Activity Centers as visible examples of water-wise design and
             green infrastructure.
         o   Require water-efficient standards for all new or renovated city-led development
             projects.
         o   Integrate educational sign age into public spaces to highlight water-saving practices and
             engage the community.


2.   Strengthen Collaborative Efforts


     Key Actions:
         o   Establish a structured communication process between Cottonwood Heights and
             SLCDPU, such as regular coordination meetings or a standing liaison role, to ensure
             consistent updates, shared planning efforts, and improved responsiveness to mutu al
             needs.
         o   Co-host water conservation workshops, community events, and outreach campaigns.
             Leverage SLCDPU's communication tools and expertise to engage residents in water-
             wise practices and promote rebate or incentive programs available through Utah Water
             Savers.
         o   In partnership with SLCDPU, identify a set of shared water conservation goals-
             grounded in the updated SLCDPU Water Conservation Plan-and commit to
             coordinated action toward achieving them. Use these goals to shape city




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Plan I Mission Statement & Goals - 12.02.2025                         Page 10 of 17
         o    initiatives, inform program priorities, and ensure alignment between local efforts and
             utility-led conservation strategies.


3.   Integrate Water Conservation into All Stages of the Land Development Process


     Key Actions:
         o   Implement comprehensive zoning, municipal codes, and land development standards
             that mandate water-efficient practices at the time of construction, including limited
             lawn areas, efficient fixtures, and smart irrigation systems. Reinforce conservation
             through post-occupancy standards like landscape maintenance guidelines.
         o   Utilize tools such as overlay zoning to clearly defi ne and protect areas designated for
             environmental conservation while guiding urban growth into appropriate, water-
             conscious zones.
         o   Actively promote and incentivize infill development to optimize existing infrastructure,
             reduce sprawl, and minimize new water infrastructure demands.
         o   Plan for and incorporate green infrastructure solutions (e.g., permeable surfaces, rain
             gardens, bioswales) within development projects to manage stormwater, recharge
             groundwater, and reduce reliance on potable water for irrigation.
         o   Integrate the findings and goals of this chapter with land use, transportation, recreation
             and other elements to ensure water conservation is uniformly addressed as part of the
             design and implementation of future neighborhoods, districts, roadways and
             infrastructure projects.
         o   Review and remove barriers to water conservation, avoiding redundant standards or
             incentives. Implement robust incentive programs, such as fee rebates, reductions, or
             waivers for developers adopting water conservation measures, and pair these with
             procedural benefits like expedited permitting.
         o   Develop and enforce post-occupancy standards that encourage ongoing water
             efficiency, including requirements for post-occupancy documentation related to water-
             saving practices.
         o   Strengthen Water Adequacy in Subdivision Regulations:
                    •   Draft a clear statement of purpose and intent for subdivision regulations that
                        explicitly includes water conservation and efficiency.
                    •   Require documentation of water supply adequacy in preliminary plat
                        applications.
                    •   Mandate referral of applications to relevant water agencies for review and
                        approval.
                    •   Withhold final plat approval until confirmation of adequate and sustainable
                        water supply is received.




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Plan I Mission Statement & Goals -12.02.2025                       Page 11 of 17
WATER USE & PRESERVATION [PROPOSED]
         "Our mission is to safeguard Cottonwood Heights' interests in a secure and resilient water
         future by responsibly exercising the city's authority over land use and development policy.
         We are committed to protecting the vital regional watershed and empowering our residents
         and businesses to make informed, water-wise choices that reduce overall demand. Through
         sound planning and strong partnerships, we aim to ensure that community development
         remains manageable and is supported by available resources, promoting a culture of
         voluntary conservation and stewardship."

1. Empower the Community Through Education, Outreach, and Voluntary Water Conservation
    Cottonwood Heights will foster a culture of water stewardship by providing accessible education, tools,
    and incentives that help residents and businesses make informed, voluntary choices to reduce water
    use. Through ongoing outreach and partnerships, the city will celebrate community achievements and
    expand conservation awareness across all neighborhoods.


    Key Actions:
    o    Promote existing rebate and incentive programs, such as Utah Water Savers and subsidized rain
         barrel distributions, through city communication channels.
    o    Feature regular "Water Tip of the Month" content in city newsletters, social media, and public
         signage to provide practical, actionable conservation advice.
    o    Use city newsletters, workshops, and outreach programs to share ongoing water conservation
         efforts and encourage voluntary actions among residents.
    o    Support and promote resident-led initiatives like tree planting and pollinator gardens that exemplify
         water-wise landscaping principles.
    o    Develop and publish annual reports highlighting community participation in water conservation
         programs to raise awareness and celebrate successes.
    o    Expand outreach by collaborating with a broader range of local organizations to reach diverse and
         under-served community members.
    o    Continue and expand partnership-based water-wise landscaping workshops in collaboration with
         SLCDPU and JVWCD.
    o    Explore opportunities to partner with SLCDPU and JVWCD to provide water-wise education and
         training tor city staff and Public Works personnel, including contractor certifications, Localscapes
         classes, and resources like QWEL.net.
    o    Develop a suite of user-friendly digital platforms and interactive tools that empower residents to
         make informed water-wise decisions, such as a monthly water use and preservation newsletter,
         printable guides and checklists, social media campaigns, virtual workshops, water-use calculators,
         etc.
    o    Foster a culture of water stewardship through community recognition programs, awards, or friendly
         competitions that celebrate and incentivize efficient water use.




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Plan I Mission Statement & Goals - 12.02.2025                     Page 12 of 17
2. Lead by Example in Water Efficiency and Community Stewardship
    The city will model responsible water use in its own facilities, parks, and public spaces, demonstrating
    the effectiveness of water-wise design and operational practices. By integrating conservation into civic
    projects and sharing transparent progress updates, Cottonwood Heights will inspire similar actions
    throughout the community.


    Key Actions:
     o   Review progress and measurable outcomes from the lnterlocal Sustainability Action Plan to guide
         city water stewardship initiatives.
    o    Integrate educational signage in public spaces such as parks, trailheads, and City Hall to promote
         awareness of water-saving practices.
    o    Encourage the adoption of water-efficient design standards for new or renovated city-led
         development projects wherever feasible.
    o    Retrofit city facilities and parks with smart irrigation systems, low-flow fixtures, and drought-
         tolerant landscaping as budgets and staff capacity allow.
    o    Use the Town Center and Activity Centers as visible, inspirational examples of water-wise design
         and green infrastructure.
    o    Work with SLCDPU and JVWCD to provide regular, transparent updates on water conservation
         progress to maintain community engagement and trust.


3. Strengthen Collaborative Efforts and Promote Fair Water Management
    Cottonwood Heights will deepen its partnerships with water providers and regional agencies to align
    conservation goals, improve communication, and enhance shared planning efforts. Through open
    dialogue on water use, affordability, and data needs, the city seeks to support fair and effective water
    management for all residents.


    Key Actions:
    o    Establish structured communication processes with SLCDPU, such as regular coordination
         meetings or a liaison role, to enhance shared planning and responsiveness.
    o    Partner with SLCDPU to co-host water conservation workshops, community events, and outreach
         campaigns leveraging utility expertise and resources.
    o    Engage in open and transparent dialogue about water pricing and issues of fairness and
         affordability to better understand and address resident concerns, recognizing that pricing authority
         lies with the utility.
    o    Collaborate with SLCDPU to identify shared water conservation goals grounded in the updated
         Water Conservation Plan (2025), ensuring alignment of city initiatives with utility-led efforts.
    o    Coordinate with Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities to obtain water usage data specific to
         Cottonwood Heights.


4. Integrate Water Conservation into the Land Development and Redevelopment Process
    The city will work to strengthen and refine water-efficient standards within its development regulations
    to help guide growth in a manner that conserves water resources and supports long-term sustainability.


DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Plan I Mission Statement & Goals • 12.02.2025                        Page 13 of 17
   Through coordinated requirements, encouragement of infill development, and the integration of green
    infrastructure, the City seeks to ensure that new development contributes to a resilient and secure
    water future.


    Key Actions:
    o   Review and update land development standards to incorporate water-efficient practices and
        policies.
    o   Review and remove barriers to water conservation (such as unnecessary or conflicting regulations,
        complex procedures, and overlapping or ineffective incentives) to ensure clear, consistent
        standards that encourage effective water-saving practices.
    o   Actively promote and incentivize infill development to optimize existing infrastructure.
    o   Plan for and incorporate green infrastructure solutions (e.g., permeable surfaces, rain gardens,
        bioswales) within development projects to manage stormwater, recharge groundwater, improve
        water quality by filtering runoff, and reduce reliance on potable water for irrigation.


5. Ensuring Long-Term Water Sustainability Through Land Use and Design (sustainability)
    The city promotes land use and development patterns that align with long-term water availability and
    encourage efficient, compact growth. In support of these land use patterns, the city encourages
    strategies such as water-wise landscaping, green infrastructure, and community education to help
    reduce overall water demand and support a resilient water future.
    o   Align land use and development decisions with the city's available and projected water supply.
    o   Promote water-efficient development patterns, including higher-density housing and compact
        development where appropriate.
    o   Require and encourage low-impact landscaping, native and drought-tolerant plantings, and
        efficient irrigation systems in public and private projects.
    o   Reduce stormwater runoff through green infrastructure, including bioswales, rain gardens,
        permeable surfaces, and tree preservation.
    o   Encourage redevelopment that reduces overall water demand compared to existing uses.
    o    Lead by example by incorporating water-efficient practices into city facilities, parks, and public
         spaces.
    o    Educate residents and businesses on the relationship between land use, water use, and long-term
         community resilience.




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Plan I Mission Statement & Goals - 12.02.2025                      Page 14 of 17
RECREATION
          "Cottonwood Heights is committed to enhancing quality of life through a balanced,
          sustainable, and connected system of parks, trails, and recreational opportunities that
          reflect the city's mountain-suburban character. Through thoughtful planning, environmental
          stewardship, and collaboration with regional partners, the city works to preserve open
          spaces, protect natural resources, expand access to the outdoors, and encourage active,
          healthy lifestyles."

1.    Maximize Existing Recreational Opportunities
      Cottonwood Heights will prioritize maintaining and modernizing its existing parks and trails, ensuring
     . they remain high-quality, sustainable, and aligned with regional canyon-access planning.


      Key Actions:
      o   Align master plans with the forthcoming Tri-Canyon Trails Plan created by the U.S. Forest Service
          (USFS). Collaborate with USFS and private landowners to maintain and improve access to canyons.
      o   Modernize existing parks with updated infrastructure, equipment, and landscape treatments,
          guided by neighborhood-level planning and community input
      o   Prioritize the protection, upkeep, and improvement of existing parks, trails, and facilities before
          developing new ones, where feasible.
      o   Promote sustainable recreational development and enhancements such as low-impact
          development, energy-efficient design, and waterwise landscaping for both new and existing
          facilities.


2. Expand Recreational Opportunities
      The city will strive to strategically add new parks, pocket parks, and trail connections to create a more
      complete, comfortable, and connected recreational network.


      Key Actions:
      o   Apply "complete streets" principles to trail and streetscape design-incorporating amenities like
          benches, lighting, signage, and landscaping to improve comfort, safety, and usability.
      o   Develop pocket parks in under-served areas where larger parks may not be feasible.
      o   Extend and connect existing trail networks to surrounding neighborhoods to create a more
          comprehensive recreational infrastructure.


3. Enhance Accessibility of Recreational Spaces
      Cottonwood Heights will strive to improve accessibility and connectivity by upgrading facilities,
      enhancing key walking and biking routes, and ensuring parks and trails are usable for people of all ages
      and abilities.




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Plan I Mission Statement & Goals - 12.02.2025                        Page 15 of 17
    Key Actions:
    o   Retrofit existing parks and recreational facilities to meet or exceed ADA standards, ensuring that all
        residents can access them.
    o   Implement neighborhood and city-wide trait and pathway enhancements that result in a fully-
        connected and accessible trait system.
    o   Improve neighborhood connectivity by identifying and enhancing walking routes, pathways, and
        trail connections that link residents to nearby recreational amenities.
    o   Develop and maintain safe, neighborhood-appropriate walking and biking paths, ensuring that
        routes are comfortable, well-designed and suitable for a variety of users.
    o   Enhance lighting along key paths and trait corridors to improve safety, visibility, and usability, w hile
        being mindful of dark-sky goats.
    o   Inventory, maintain, and increase publicly accessible pedestrian cut-throughs to connect
        neighborhoods to each other and to community amenities. Evaluate existing cut-throughs for safety
        and accessibility.


4. Preserve Open Spaces
    The city will continue to prioritize the protection and stewardship of natural open spaces on public
    lands, while supporting conservation efforts on private property, such as the use of conservation or
    access easement where appropriate, to preserve ecological health, safeguard public access, and
    maintain its mountain-suburban character, alt while maintaining private property rights.


    Key Actions:
    o   Protect and maintain public access to open spaces, including canyons and traits within city
        boundaries.
    o   Promote the access to and acquisition of private tand(s) for traits and trait heads via easements and
        "right-of-way" designations.
    o   Prioritize tong-term preservation of natural and scenic resources through public land-use policies,
        partnerships, and stewardship efforts.
    o    Ensure open spaces remain ecologically healthy and resilient by supporting practices that protect
         habitats, reduce erosion, and maintain watershed functions.


5. Providing Sustainable and Connected Recreational Opportunities [sustainability]
    The city promotes equitable, connected, and sustainable access to parks, trails, and recreational
    amenities throughout Cottonwood Heights. It supports public health, community well-being, and long-
    term recreational needs through resource-efficient design, protection of natural features, and
    coordinated planning.
    o    Ensure equitable access to parks, traits, and recreational facilities for all neighborhoods and age
        groups.
    o    Expand and enhance the citywide trait and open space network to support recreation, active
         transportation, and environmental protection.
    o    Design parks and recreational facilities to minimize water and energy use, using efficient irrigation,
         native landscaping, and sustainable materials.


DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Plan I Mission Statement & Goals -12.02.2025                         Page 16 of 17
    o    Protect and integrate natural features and open spaces into the recreation system to enhance
         environmental stewardship and community health.
    o    Prioritize redevelopment and enhancement of existing parks while strategically adding new
         facilities to meet future needs.
    o    Support recreational amenities that promote public health, social interaction, and quality of life,
         contributing to social sustainability.
    o    Coordinate recreation planning with land use and transportation to ensure safe, convenient, and
         connected access.




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Plan I Mission Statement & Goals - 12.02.2025                      Page 17 of 17
                               ( ~          (



                    Cottonwood Heights
                    Cuy brtu't'r11 1hr m11:,0111




                    Appendix 5

                 STAFF REPORT
City Council Board Committee Assignments Discussion

                  Mayor Bennion
Meeting Requested:         Business Meeting D   Work Session D   Other D
Public Hearing Needed?     Yes □ No □ Undetermined □
                           Denied D   Approved D Continued D
CM Approval or Denial
                           CMSignature:_        ~p_
Attached is a proposed City Council Board Assignments document for your review. Mayor Bennion will lead a
discussion on the proposed board and committee assignments at the January 20th City Council Work Session.
             Council Board/Committee Assignments January 2026
            Committee                             Description                  When and Time           Member Assigned          Alternate

    Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion
Wasatch Front Regional Council         The Wasatch Front Regional              Every other         Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion
(WFRC) Transportation Coordinating     Council (WFRC) is an Association        month.
Committee (Trans Com)                  of Governments (AOG) organized
                                       under the Interlocal Cooperation
                                       Act of Utah State Law to discuss
                                       and study c01mm111ity challenges of
                                       mutual interest and concern.
Conference of Mayors                                                           4th Thursday at     Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion and
                                                                               11:30 am - 7        City Manager Jared Gerber
                                                                               times/year
Council of Governments (COG)                                                   4th Thursday at     Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion
                                                                               Noon
Central Wasatch Commission (CWC)       The mjssion of the ewe is to            First Monday of     Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion
                                       implement the Mountain Accord           every Month at
                                       charter, which laid out proposals for   3:30 pm.
                                       addressing four major issue areas
                                       specific to the Central Wasatch
                                       Mountains: transportation,
                                       economic viability, environmental
                                       sustainability, and recreation
                                       stewardship.
Tourist, Recreation, Cultural and      To advise the Council on TRCC tax       5-6 Meetings/year   Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion
Convention (TRCC) Advisory Board for   revenues. The council appoints 4        - June-December
SL County.                             people, Salt Lake Council of
                                       Governments appoints 5 people
                                       (Mayors who are municipal
                                       member of the council of
                                       govenunents). To be aware of
                                       formation of board and vacancies,
                                      qualified applicants should attend
                                      COG.
Unified Fire Authority (UFA) Board    Reviews issues related to the           Third Tuesday of    Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion         Council Member
                                      Interlocal Agreement and Board          each month at                                      Ellen Birrell
                                      Policies. Makes recommendations         7:30 am.
                                      to the f-t.1ll Board of Directors.
UFA Finance Committee                 Reviews all wages and benefits in       Quarterly at Noon   Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion
                                      preparation for the budget process.
                                      Make recommendations to the
                                      Finance Conm1ittee. Receives the
                                      initial presentation of the proposed
                                      budget from Staff and makes a
                                      recommendation to the full Board
                                      of Directors to approve the tentative
                                      budget in May.
COG Public Works Subcommittee                                                 Semi-Annual -       Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion
                                                                              July/August and
                                                                              January/February
City Audit Committee                                                          December            Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion,
                                                                                                  Council Member Suzanne
                                                                                                  Hyland and City Manager
                                                                                                  Jared Gerber
Canyons School District Liaison                                               As needed           Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion and
                                                                                                  City Manager Jared Gerber
Salt Lake Transportation Committee    To provide recommendations to the       As needed           Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion
                                      Transportation Division, Mayor
                                      Erin Mendenhall, and City Council
                                      regarding transportation decisions
                                      and issues affecting Salt Lake City.
Utah League of Cities and Towns       The ULCT Board meets with state         Monday at 11:30     Mayor and Jared Gerber
(ULCT) Legislative Policy Committee   leaders on policy making.               am during           Council Member Ellen Birrell
                                                                              legislation and
                                                                              every month as
                                                                              needed.
Salt Lake County Board of Health                                              I" Thursday at      Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion
                                                                              7:30 a.m.
Salt Lake County ZAP Tier II Advisory   The ZAP Tier II Advisory Board         As needed.          Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion
Board (Arts)                            will review applications and make
                                        funding recommendations to the
                                        Salt Lake County Council for ZAP
                                        Tier ll funding. The board also
                                        advises staff and elected officials on
                                        issues pe1taining to the ZAP
                                        program.
   Council Member Matt Holton           (District 1)
PTOS (Parks, Trails, & Open Space       The Parks, Trails, and Open            411' Wednesday of   Council Member Matt Holton
Committee                               Space Committee focuses on             each month at
                                        finding ways to maintain and           6:00 p.m.
                                        enhance the city's valuable
                                        parks, trails, and open space
                                        resources. The committee is
                                        made up of dedicated residents
                                        from across the city, all with
                                        knowledge, expertise, and
                                        passion for all things recreation.
Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling                                              4 1" Monday at      Council Member Matt Holton
District Board                                                                 9:00 a.m.
Alta View Hospital                                                             Quarterly           Council Member Matt Holton
                                                                               Meetinf!S
Salt Lake Valley Mosquito Abatement     To take all necessary and proper       As needed.          Council Member Matt Holton
Meeting                                 steps for the abatement of
                                        mosquitoes, flies, grasshoppers, and
                                        other insects within the district
                                        which pose a potential tlu·eat to
                                        public health.
Council Member Suzanne Hyland           (District 2)
Mayor Pro Tempore                                                             As needed            Council Member Suzanne
                                                                                                   Hyland
Butlerville Days/ Community Events                                            As needed            Council Member Suzanne
Liaison                                                                                            Hyland
City Audit Committee                                                         As Needed in         Mayor and Council Member
                                                                             December             Suzanne Hyland
CH Business Association Liaison                                              As needed            Council Members Suzanne
                                                                                                  Hyland and Ellen Birrell
Emergency Planning                                                           Monthly - 3rd        Council Member Suzanne
                                                                             Tuesday ofeach       Hyland, Emergency
                                                                             month at 3pm.        Management and
                                                                                                  Administrative Staff
Council Member Shawn Newell          (District 3)
Canyons Education Foundation Board                                           Monthly - 3rd        Council Member Shawn
                                                                             Thursday of each     Newell
                                                                             month at 7:30 a.m.
                                                                             *No meetings in
                                                                             December
Community Health Coalition                                                   Monthly-r            Council Member Shawn           Community
                                                                             Monday ofevery       Newell                         Health Coalition
                                                                             month at 4pm
South Valley Chamber Board of                                                Monthly - 3rd        Council Member Shawn
Trustees                                                                     Wednesday of         Newell and City Manager
                                                                             each month at        Jared Gerber
                                                                             7:30 a.m.
Arts Council                         The arts council meets monthly to       Monthly first        Council Member Shawn
                                     plan and deliver arts projects in the   Wednesday at         Newell
                                     city. While these events happen         6:00p.m.
                                     year-round, the biggest opportunity
                                     for involvement comes in the
                                     months prior to the city's annual
                                     summer musical, presented at the
                                     end of July and into early August.
Council Member Ellen Birrell         (District 4)
Association of Municipal Councils                                            2nd Tuesday of       Council Member Ellen Birrell
                                                                             each month.
Unified Fire Authority (UFA) Board      Reviews issues related to the      Third Tuesday of    Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion          Council Member
(Alternate)                             lnterlocal Agreement and Board     each month at                                       Ellen Birrell
                                        Policies. Makes recommendations    7:30am.                                             (Alternate)
                                        to the fu 11 Board of Directors.
Utah League of Cities and Towns         The ULCT Board meets with state    Monday at 11:30     Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion          Utah League of
Legislative Policy Committee            leaders on policy making.          am during           Council Member Ellen Birrell,   Cities and Towns
                                                                           legislation and     and City Manager Jared          Legislative
                                                                           every month as      Gerber                          Policy
                                                                           needed.                                             Committee
CH Business Association Liaison                                            As needed           Council Members Ellen Birrell
                                                                                               and Council Member Suzanne
                                                                                               Hyland
Utah Transit Authority Local Advisory                                      Quarterly at 1:00   Council Member Ellen Birrell
                                                                           v.m.                (Alternate)
CH2 Committee                           Committee meets to review          Monthly 2"d         Council Member Ellen Birrell
                                        upcoming events, issues and        Tuesday at 10:00
                                        concerns that collaborate with     a.m.
                                        Cottonwood Heights Parks and
                                        Recreation.
Historic Committee                                                         2nd Wednesday at    Council Member Ellen Birrell
                                                                           5:30 om.
Youth City Council                                                         Monthly             Council Member Ellen Birrell    Jared Gerber,
                                                                           (beginning in the                                   City Manager
                                                                           2024-2025 school
                                                                           vear)
City Manager Jared Gerber
South Valley Chamber Board of                                              Monthly - 3rd       Jared Gerber, Council Member
Trustees                                                                   Wednesday of        Shawn Newell
                                                                           each month at
                                                                           7:30 a.m.
Utah League of Cities and Towns         The ULCT Board meets with state    Monday at 11:30     Mayor Bennion, Council
Legislative Policy Committee            leaders on policy making.          am during           Member Ellen Birrell and City
                                                                           legislation and     Manager Jared Gerber
                                                                           every month as
                                                                           needed.
Valley Emergency Communications                                            3rd Wednesday of   Jared Gerber                     Chief Robby
Center (VECC) Board                                                        everv Month                                         Russo
Valley Emergency Communication     VECC Budget Committee Chair             As needed          Jared Gerber
Center Budget Committee Chair
CH Budget Committee                                                        As needed          CM TBD by Mayor Bennion,         Mayor Gay Lynn
                                                                                              Jared Gerber and Scott Jurges.   Bennion
Utah City Managers Association     Meets with City management              As needed          Jared Gerber
(UCMA) Legislative Update Group    representatives across the state from
                                   various cities to review upcoming
                                   state legislative session issues.
CH Benefits and Cq}Tipensation                                             As needed.         CM TBD by Mayor Bennion          Mayor Gay Lynn
Committee                                                                                     and City Manager Jared           ~ ennion
                                                                                              Gerber.
CH Budget Committee                                                        As needed          CM TBD by Mayor Bennion,         l'-1ayor Gay Ly@
                                                                                              Jared Gerber and Scott Jurges.   !Bennion
Conference of Mayors                                                       4th Thursday at    Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion and       Conference of
                                                                           11:30 am - 7       City Manager Jared Gerber        Mayors
                                                                           times/vear
Canyons School District Liaison                                            As needed          Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion and
                                                                                              City Manager Jared Gerber
City Audit Committee                                                       December           Mayor Bennion, Council
                                                                                              Member Suzanne Hyland and
                                                                                              City Manager Jared Gerber
Other
CH Budget Committee                                                        As needed          CM TBD by Mayor Bennion,         Mayor Gay Lynn
                                                                                              Jared Gerber and Scott Jurges.   IBennion
CH Benefits and Con:!Qensation                                             As needed.         CM TBD by Mayor Bennion          Mayor Gay Lynn
Committee                                                                                     City Manager Jared Gerber.       ll3ennion
WFRC Transcom Technical Advisory                                           As needed.         Matt Shipp
Committee

WFRC Planning Technical Advisory                                           As needed          Jin1 Spung
Committee
South Valley Chamber of Commerce                                           3rd Wednesday      Jim Spung
Ambassador Committee                                                       everv month
South Valley Chamber - Women in   As needed   Sydney Pierce
Business Committee
                     Cottonwood Heights
                     Ciry bttuv-m tlN r,IIIJOIIJ




                    Appendix 6

                 STAFF REPORT
Discussion of UDOT's Concurrence Request Concerning
Temporary Closure of the Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail
  Underpass During Construction of UDOT's Planned
                   Mobility Hub
                   Mayor Bennion
  :   UDOT's Concurrence Request Concern ing Temp
              .           .          ,



Meeting Requested:         Business Meeting D   Work Session □   Other D
Public Hearing Needed?    Yes D No D Undetermined □
                           Denied D   Approved D Continued D
CM Approval or Denial
                           CM Signature:_
                                                ~~
                                                ~

Mayor Bennion will lead a discussion on UDOT's Concurrence Request.
                                  DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
                                  CARLOS M. BRACERAS, P.E.
                                  J,,°J:ecutive /Jirector
                                  LISA J. WILSON, P.E.
                                  Deputy Director of Engineering and Operations
  State of Utah
                                  BENJAMIN G. HUOT. P.E.
                                  Dep111y Director of Planning and lnvestme111
   SPENCER J. COX
      Governor

DEIDRE M. HENDERSON
  Lieutenant Governor




           January 7, 2026

           Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion
           Mayor, Cottonwood Heights
           2277 E. Bengal Blvd.
           Cottonwood Heights, UT 8412 l

           Subject:       UDOT Project No. S-R299(489), Big Cottonwood Canyon Environmental
                          Study, Salt Lake County, Utah (PIN 21400)
                          Section 4(f) Temporary Occupancy Concurrence Request

           Dear Mayor Bennion:
           The purpose of this letter is to notify you that the Utah Department of Transportation
           (UDOT) intends to apply the Section 4(f) temporary occupancy exception [23 Code of
           Federal Regulations (CFR) Section 774.13(d)] to one Section 4(f) recreation property
           under your jurisdiction: the Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail. UDOT requests your
           concurrence that the Big Cottonwood Canyon Project (BCC Project) meets the criteria for
           application of the temporary occupancy exception. This temporary occupancy finding is
           pursuant to Section 4(f) of the Department of Transportation Act of 1966 [49 United
           States Code (USC) Section 303(c), and 23 USC Section 138]; and Federal Highway
           Administration Section 4(f) implementing regulations (23 CFR Part 774).
           UDOT is preparing an environmental assessment for the BCC Project. The purpose of the
           BCC Project is to reduce wintertime traffic congestion on SR-190 from the intersection
           of SR-190 and Fort Union Boulevard in Cottonwood Heights through the town of
           Brighton in Big Cottonwood Canyon as directed by the Utah Legislature in Senate Bill 2
           in 2023. This bill directs UDOT to use certain Legislature-allocated funds to "provide
           enhanced bus service, tolling, a mobility hub, and resort bus stops for Big [and Little]
           Cottonwood Canyons."
           Two alternatives are evaluated in detail in the BCC Project EA:
                 •   No-action Alternative
                 •   Proposed Action
           The Proposed Action includes enhanced bus service, tolling, a mobility hub, and resort
           bus stops as its primary elements. The Proposed Action would also improve the existing


                             Administration• Telephone (801) 965-4000 • Facsimile (801 ) 965-4540 • www.udot.utah.gov
                 Calvin Rampton Complex• 4501 South 2700 West • Mailing Address P.O. Box 14 1510 • Salt Lake City, UT 841 14-1510
                                                                                                               Page 2


bus stops located at Cardiff Fork, Spmces Campground, Silver Fork, and Silver
Lake/Solitude Nordic Center; add a bus priority lane around Brighton Loop Road from
about Camp Tuttle Road to the southern tip of Brighton Loop Road; add a grade-
separated interchange on Wasatch Boulevard to access the mobility hub; and add a bus-
only transitway at the base of Big Cottonwood Canyon. The proposed improvements
would meet the purpose of the project by reducing wintertime traffic congestion as
directed by Senate Bill 2 in 2023.

Section 4(t)
Section 4(f) Recreation Properties
Section 4(£) applies to significant publicly owned parks and recreation areas that are open
to the public. The land must be officially designated as a park or recreation area, and the
officials with jurisdiction of the land must determine that its primary purpose is as a park
or recreation area.
UDOT has identified one Section 4(£) recreation property under Cottonwood Heights's
jurisdiction that would be potentially affected by the BCC Project - Big Cottonwood
Canyon Trail.

Temporary Occupancy Exception Criteria
Temporary occupancy occurs when a recreation property is occupied during construction
but the impacts are so minimal that they do not constitute a use within the meaning of
Section 4(£). The following conditions must be satisfied:
    l . The duration must be temporary, that is, less than the time needed for construction
        of the project, and there should be no change in ownership of the land;
   2.   The scope of the work must be minor, that is, both the nature and the magnitude
        of the changes to the Section 4(£) property are minimal;
   3.   There are no anticipated permanent adverse physical impacts, nor will there be
        interference with the protected activities, features , or attributes of the property on
        either a temporary or permanent basis;
   4.   The land being used must be fully restored, that is, the property must be returned
        to a condition which is at least as good as that which existed prior to the project;
        and
   5.   There must be documented agreement of the official(s) with jurisdiction over the
        Section 4(£) property regarding the above conditions.

Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail
The Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail is a paved multi-use trail designed for cyclists,
joggers, etc. It extends from Holladay to its terminus at the park-and-ride lot at the
intersection of Wasatch Boulevard and Big Cottonwood Canyon Road. The trail is west
of Wasatch Boulevard and connects to the park-and-ride lot on the east side of Wasatch
Boulevard via an underpass, or via a crosswalk at the signal on Wasatch Boulevard.
There is also a sidewalk that extends from the intersection of Wasatch Boulevard and Big
Cottonwood Canyon Road to an additional park-and-ride lot west of the intersection. The
park-and-ride lot at the Wasatch Boulevard intersection was built to facilitate travel into


                Administration • Telephone (80 I) 965-4000 • Facsimile (80 I) 965-4540 • www.udot.utah.gov
    Calvin Rampton Complex • 4501 South 2700 West• Mailing Address P.O. Box 141 51 0 • Salt Lake City, UT 84114-1510
                                                                                                               Page 3


Big Cottonwood Canyon; it was not constructed primarily for users of Big Cottonwood
Canyon Trail.

Section 4(f) Use of (Impact to) Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail
To support vehicle parking for the enhanced bus service associated with the Proposed
Action, a mobility hub would be built at the gravel pit site on the east side of Wasatch
Boulevard; the mobility hub would include a parking strncture for about 1,75 0 vehicles.
A one-way, bus-only transitway would run south from the mobility hub, paralleling
Wasatch Boulevard; travel through the current location for the Big Cottonwood Canyon
park-and-ride lot; and exit east onto Big Cottonwood Canyon Road about 0.15 mile up
Big Cottonwood Canyon (at about milepost 2.0). During construction of the bus-only
transitway from the mobility hub to Big Cottonwood Canyon Road, the underpass from
the Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail to the park-and-ride lot would need to be temporarily
closed. Trail users could still access the trail from the park-and-ride lot by using the
crosswalk at Wasatch Boulevard and Big Cottonwood Canyon Road, or by using the
park-and-ride lot west of the intersection and walking the sidewalk to the intersection.
Figure I illustrates the BCC Project's effects on the trail.
No right-of-way would be acquired from the trail property, and the trail would be
restored to the same or better conditions after construction. Access to the trail would be
maintained during construction. The park-and-ride lot west of the intersection (about
45 parking spaces) would remain open throughout construction and would not be altered.
Although the Proposed Action would result in a loss of parking spaces from the existing
park-and-ride lot and although the ultimate future use of the area as a park-and-ride lot is
undetermined, there would be a large net gain in parking overall with construction of the
parking strncture at the mobility hub.




                Administration• Telephone (801) 965-4000 • Facsimile (80 1) 965-4540 • www.udot.utah.gov
    Calvin Rampton Complex • 4501 South 2700 West• Mailing Address P.O. Box 141510 • Salt Lake City, UT 84 114-1510
                                                                                                                                                                                      Page4


Figure 1. Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail - Temporary Occupancy

                                       To Mobility Hub and'
                                        Parkin1fSlructure
                                                               .,                                          ·,,,..                          ·'""~,-
                                                                                                                                                   ..:r__ -,
                                                                                                                                       S.h Lake City    •
                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                                                              f.(



                                                                                                                                                                                     :1~
                                                                                                                                            Mlllae<!~-•
                                                                                                                                                                      ,,W
                                                                                                                                           r,. ~!ada~
                                                                                                                                                                  :'\-::.:1 e ~
                                                                                                                                   Con~~~clty
                                                                                                                                                                          •'l .'-j
                                                                                                                                             (~"'!..                      -~"'-"I
                                                                                                                                                   ..,.,,:i~
                                                                                                                                              r,-~_\/'k~:~                   "'\     \'
                                                                                                                                             ·t r~~,_ ·-~ -
                                                                                                                                   LEGEND
                                                                                                                                   C-~J M unicipalities
                                                                                                                                   c:J Project Footprint
                                                                                                                                            Parcels
                                                                                                                                           Trail
                                                                                                                                   --~ Trail Underpass




                                                                                                                                       BIG COTTONWOOD CANYON TRAIL



                                                                                                                                                            '1'
                                                                                                                                                           70     140
                                                                                                                                                       USf((l
                                                                                                                                                1 lnC;n oquols 229 root

                                                                                                                                             Big Cottonwood
                                                                                                                                             ...,. .. ~ ~.?~X~
                                                                                                                                                    ~ • •STUD~




                               Administration• Telephone (SO I) 965-4000 • Facsimile (80 1) 965-4540 • www.udot.utah.gov
                   Calvin Rampton Complex • 450 1 South 2700 West• Mailing Address P.O. Box 141 510 • Salt Lake City, UT 84114-151 0
                                                                                                                Page 5



Temporary Occupancy
UDOT reviewed the temporary occupancy exception criteria and applied them to the
effects on the Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail. Because there would be no right-of-way
acquisition, the trail will be restored to the same or better conditions, and trail continuity
would be maintained throughout construction, UDOT ' s assessment is that there would be
no adverse effects to trail users either temporarily or pennanently; and therefore, the
temporary occupancy exception criteria are met and there would be no use of the Big
Cottonwood Canyon Trail.

Request for Concurrence
UDOT is requesting your concurrence that the BCC Project would not adversely affect
the recreational activities, features, or attributes of the Big Cottonwood Canyon trail and
as the official with jurisdiction over the trail, you agree that the temporary occupancy
criteria are satisfied. If you have any questions, please contact me at (801) 910-2035 or
lizrobinson@utah.gov.

Sincerely,

 ¼h6~~
Liz Robinson
Cultural Resources Program Manager
Utah Department of Transportation




Based on the Section 4(f) evaluation described above, I concur that the Proposed Action
will not adversely affect the recreational activities, features, and attributes of the Big
Cottonwood Canyon trail, and as the official with jurisdiction over the trail, I agree that
the temporary occupancy criteria (23 CFR Section 774.13(d)) are satisfied.



Gay Lynn Bennion                                                           Date
Mayor, Cottonwood Heights




                Administration • Telephone (80 1) 965-4000 • Facsimile (80 1) 965-4540 • www.udot.utah.gov
    Calvin Rampton Complex• 450 1 South 2700 West• Mailing Address P.O. Box 141510 • Sall Lake C ity, UT 84114-15 10
  Cottonwood Heights
  Ciry b,,u~m 1/,~ cull)<JIII




  Appendix 7

STAFF REPORT
 Action Items
 Shane Topham
Tiffan Janzen

From:                     Shane Topham <WST@tophamlegal.com>
Sent:                     Wednesday, January 14, 2026 6:01 PM
To:                       Jared Gerber; Tiffany Janzen
Subject:                  [EXT:]Legislation for January 20th CORA and City Council Meetings
Attachments:              WST-Cottonwood Heights CORA-Resol ution 2026-01 Electing Officers and Appointing Staff.pdf; WST-Cottonwood
                          Heights-Resolution 2026-07 Awarding Gun and Badge (Morzelewski).pdf; WST-Cot tonwood Height s-Resolution
                          2026-08 Ratifying Council Committee Assignment s.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2026-09 Approving
                          UOOT Concurrence Request (BCC Trail Underpass Temporary Closure).pdf;
                          BCC_Section4(f)_TempOccletter_BCC_Trail.pdf



Greetings-

Drafts of the following items of legislation scheduled for consideration at the January 20th CORA board
and city council business meetings are attached for your review and comment:

CORA Meeting.

    1. Resolution 2026-01 . This resolution will elect certain new officers and appoint staff for the CORA,
       due to recent transitions in the city's elected officials.

City Council Meeting.

    1. Resolution 2026-07. This resolution w ill award Sgt. Dan Morzelewski his badge and authorize his
       purchase of his sidearm for $10, as is typically done for retiring CHPD officers and as is
       specifically authorized by CHC 2.150.060(H)(2)(a)-(b)
    2. Resolution 2026-08. By this resolution the council will ratify the committee assignments made by
       the mayor. I understand that list w ill be circulated separately before the meeting.
    3. Resolution 2026-09. This resolution will authorize the mayor to sign and return UDOT's " Section
       4(f) Temporary Occupancy Concurrence Request" (copy attached) concerning proposed closure
       of the Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail/ Wasatch Blvd. underpass during construction of UDOT's
       planned mobility hub on the East side of Wasatch Blvd.

Please contact me as soon as possible if there are any questions or concerns regarding the attachments.

Best regards-

Shane

WM . SHANE TOPHAM I Attorney I TOPHAM LEGAL
4930 Fairview Drive, Holladay, UT 84117
tel+801.808.6325 I Bio

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: The content of this e-mail is confidential and proprietary and may be attorney-client
privileged. If you are not the intended recipient, please destroy it and not ify: wst@tophamlegal.com .



EXTERNAL ATTACHMENT: Only Open if you trust this sender.
                             ottonwood Heights
                           City br1wa11 th( r.i11JOlll




   COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND RENEWAL
             AGENCY (CDRA)


                         Attachment 1
                      Resolution 2026-01
By this resolution the board will elect officers and appoint staff
   for the CDRA due to recent changes in the city's elected
                            officers.
                        COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
             COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND RENEWAL AGENCY

                                   RESOLUTION NO. 2026-01

              A RESOLUTION ELECTING OFFICERS AND APPOINTING STAFF


      WHEREAS, the Cottonwood Heights Community Development and Renewal Agency (the
"Agency") of the city of Cottonwood Heights was created to transact the business and exercise all of
the powers provided for in the Limited Purpose Local Government Entities - Community
Reinvestment Agency Act (Title l 7C, Chapters 1 through 5, UTAH CODE ANNOTATED and any
subsequent, replacement or amended law or act (the "Act"); and

        WHEREAS, the Agency's governing board (the "Board") met in the city council work room
at 2277 East Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, Utah, on 20 January 2026 following full
compliance with the noticing requirements of the Open and Public Meeting Act, UTAH CODE ANN.
52-4-l Ol et seq. ; and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to the Agency's bylaws, it is proposed for the following persons to be
appointed to the offices set forth opposite their respective names, to serve in such offices until their
successors are appointed by the Board:

               Chainnan                        Gay Lynn Bennion
               Vice Chairman                   Suzanne Hyland
               Chief Executive Officer         Jared Gerber

and

         WHEREAS, as provided in the Agency's bylaws, the Chief Executive Officer has proposed
that the Board approve appointment of the following persons to the staff positions in the Agency set
forth opposite their respective names:

               Secretary                        Tiffany Janzen
               Assistant Secretary              Barbara Higgins
               Treasurer                        Scott Jurges

and

       WHEREAS, after due consideration, the Board has detem1ined that appointing such officers
and approving the Chief Executive Officer' s appointments of such staff is in the best interests of the
Agency and the public health, safety and welfare;

     NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the governing board of the Cottonwood
Heights Community Development and Renewal Agency that:

       1.      The following persons are appointed to the offices set forth opposite their respective
names, to serve in such offices until their successors are appointed by the Board:
               Chairman                        Gay Lynn Bennion
               Vice Chairman                   Suzanne Hyland
               Chief Executive Officer         Jared Gerber

and

       2.      The Board hereby consents to the Chief Executive Officer's appointment of the
following persons to the Agency staff positions set forth opposite their respective names, to serve in
such positions until their successors are appointed by the Chief Executive Officer and approved by
the Board:

               Secretary                       Tiffany Janzen
               Assistant Secretary             Barbara Higgins
               Treasurer                       Scott Jurges

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-0 l , shall take immediate effect.

       PASSED AND APPROVED effective 20 January 2026.

                                               COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS COMMUNITY
ATTEST:                                        DEVELOPMENT AND RENEWAL AGENCY


By: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ __                    By _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ __ _ _ __
    Tiffany Janzen, Secretary                     Gay Lynn Bennion, Chairman


                                               VOTING:

                                               Gay Lynn Bennion                Yea_Nay_
                                               Matt Holton                     Yea_Nay_
                                               Suzanne Hyland                  Yea_Nay_
                                               Shawn E. Newell                 Yea_Nay_
                                               Ellen Birrell                   Yea_Nay_

      DEPOSITED in the office of the Secretary of the Cottonwood Heights Community
Development and Renewal Agency this 20th day of January 2026.




                                                  2
                                      r1"'\       I


                           Cottonwood Heights
                           C,ry !Htu,em 1hr r,111yo111




          CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING

                         Attachment 1
                      Resolution 2026-07
 Sgt. Dan Morzelewski is retiring from CHPD after 32 years of
public service, including 17 with CHPD. As is customary and as
authorized by city code, by this resolution the council will award
  Sgt. Morzelewski his badge and approve his purchase of his
                             sidearm.
                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                    RESOLUTION NO. 2026-07

             A RESOLUTION AWARDING A RETIRING POLICE OFFICER HIS BADGE
                   AND APPROVING HIS PURCHASE OF A POLICE FIREARM

       WHEREAS, §2.150.060 of the COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE (the "Code") establishes the
procedures for disposal by the city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City") of its surplus property; and

        WHEREAS, under Code §2.150.060(H)(2)(a)-(b), the City's city council (the " Council")
may, by resolution following recommendation by the City' s chief of police (the "Chief'), award a
retiring City police officer their badge and allow a retiring City police officer to purchase their
sideann from the City for such consideration as the Council may deem appropriate; and

       WHEREAS, §2.150.060(H)(3) of the Code provides that conveyances of equipment under
Code §2.150.060(H) may occur without compliance with the surplusing and sale procedures
applicable to other types of City property; and

         WHEREAS, City police officer Sgt. Dan Morzelewski ("Sgt. Morzelewski'') is retiring
from the City' s police department after 32 years of public service, including 17 years with the City
as a law enforcement officer, and desires to obtain his City police badge (the "Badge") and his
City police department-issued Glock Model 19 9mm sidearm (serial no. CCZK935) (the
" F zrearm
    .      "); and

       WHEREAS, the Chief has recommended that the Council should award Sgt. Morzelewski
his Badge and allow Sgt. Morzelewski to purchase the Fireann from the City for $10.00; and

       WHEREAS, the Council met on 20 January 2026 to consider, among other things,
awarding the Badge to Sgt. Morzelewski and allowing Sgt. Morzelewski to purchase the Firearm
from the City for $10.00; and

       WHEREAS, the Cmmcil detennined that $10.00 is appropriate consideration for the
Firearm; and

        WHEREAS, after reviewing the Chief's recommendation and careful consideration, the
Council has determined that it is in the best interests of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens
of the City to award Sgt. Morzelewski his Badge and approve Sgt. Morzelewski' s purchase of the
Firearm from the City for $10.00 in accordance with Code §2.150.060(H)(2)(a)-(b);

       NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Cottonwood Heights city council as
follows:

        1.       Sgt. Morzelewski is hereby awarded his Badge; and

       2.        Sgt. Morzelewski 's purchase of his Firearm from the City for $10.00 is hereby
approved.
     This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-07, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

     PASSED AND APPROVED effective 20 January 2026.


ATTEST:                                   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


B y : - - - -- - - - - - - -              By:
                                                ----------------
  Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                       Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                          VOTING:

                                          Gay Lynn Bennion             Yea _Nay _
                                          Matt Holton                  Yea_Nay_
                                          Suzanne Hyland               Yea_Nay_
                                          Shawn E. Newell              Yea_Nay_
                                          Ellen Birrell                Yea_Nay_

     DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder on 20 January 2026.

     RECORDED this _        day of January 2026.




                                             2
                          Cottonwood Heights
                          Cuy bmiv:m th< ranyom




                        Attachment 2
                     Resolution 2026-08
By this resolution the council will ratify the assignments made
 by the mayor for liaison coverage of various "outside" and
   "inside" committees and boards, as contemplated by the
           council's internal policies and procedures.
                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                   RESOLUTION NO. 2026-08

         A RESOLUTION APPROVING AND RATIFYING COMMITTEE ASSIGNMENTS

       WHEREAS, pursuant to applicable Utah state law and section 2.20.030(0) of the
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE OF ORDINANCES (the "Code"), the mayor (the "Mayor") of the city of
Cottonwood Heights ("City") is charged with representing the City in all of its external relationships,
such as City's participation on boards, commissions and community task forces involving other
governmental entities ("Outside Committees"); and

       WHEREAS, as provided in Policy 4 of the internal policies (the "Policies") of City's city
council (the "Councif'), the Mayor may from time to time delegate to a member of the Council, or
remove a Council member from, the duty to represent City's interests on one or more Outside
Committees; and

        WHEREAS, the Policies also provide that the Mayor may appoint Council members as
liaisons to legislative advisory committees under Code section 2.30.180 and/or City advisory
committees under Code chapter 2.140 ("Inside Committees") (the Outside Committees and the Inside
Committees are, collectively, the "Committees"); and

        WHEREAS, the Mayor has appointed members of the Council and (with the City manager's
acquiescence) City administration to represent City on the Committees designated on the attached
exhibit (the "Exhibit"), to serve in such positions until their successors are appointed as provided in
the Policies; and

      WHEREAS, the Council met on 20 January 2026 to, among other things, approve and ratify
the Committee assignments specified on the Exhibit; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and we! fare of City's residents to so act;

        NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights that the Council hereby approves and ratifies the Committee assignments specified on the
Exhibit, with such assignees to perform and fulfill those assignments subject to and as provided in
the Policies and all other applicable standards and law.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-08, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

       PASSED AND APPROVED effective 20 January 2026.


ATTEST:                                       COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By:------------                              B y : - - - - - - -- - -- - - - - -
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                      Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor
                                   VOTING:

                                   Gay Lynn Bennion             Yea_Nay_
                                   Matt Holton                  Yea_Nay_
                                   Suzanne Hyland               Yea_Nay_
                                   Shawn E. Newell              Yea_Nay_
                                   Ellen Birrell                Yea _ Nay_

DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 20th day of January 2026.

RECORDED this_ day of January 2026.




                                        2
                                     ( ~\'

                           Cottonwood Heights
                           C,ry bm,vm 1/,r r1111Jo1U




                         Attachment 3
                      Resolution 2026-09
  UDOT has informed the city that the underpass from the Big
 Cottonwood Canyon Trail to UDOT' s planned mobility hub on
    the east side of Wasatch Blvd. must be temporarily closed
  during construction of the proposed bus-only transitway from
      the mobility hub to Big Cottonwood Canyon Road, and
 requested the city's written concurrence that such projects meet
the criteria for application of the temporary occupancy standards
    under 23 CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS Section
     774.13(d). This resolution will provide that concurrence.
                                   DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
                                   CARLOS M. BRACERAS, P.E.
                                   lixeculive Direcror
                                    LISA J. WILSON, P.E.
                                    Depuly Direc/ur of Engineering and Opera1io11s
  State of Utah
                                    BENJAMIN G. HUOT. P.E.
                                    Deputy Director of Planning and [111,eslmen/
   SPENCER J. COX
       Governor

DEIDRE M. HENDERSON
  Lie11/e11anl Governor




             January 7, 2026

             Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion
             Mayor, Cottonwood Heights
             2277 E. Bengal Blvd.
             Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121

             Subject:        UDOT Project No. S-R299(489), Big Cottonwood Canyon Environmental
                             Study, Salt Lake County, Utah (PIN 21400)
                             Section 4(f) Temporary Occupancy Concurrence Req_u·est

              Dear Mayor Bennion:
             The purpose of this letter is to notify you that the Utah Department of Transportation
             (UDOT) intends to apply the Section 4(f) temporary occupancy exception {23 Code of
             Federal Regulations (CFR) Section 774. l3(d)] to one Section 4(f) recreation property
             under your j urisdiction: the Big Cottonwood Canyon Trait UDOT requests your
             concurrence that the Big Cottonwood Canyon Proj·ect (BCC Project) meets the criteria for
             application ofth-e temporary occupancy exception. This temporary occupancy finding is
             pursuant to Section 4(£) of the Department of Transportation Act of 1966 [49 United
             States Code (USC) Section 303(c), and 23 USC Section l38]; and federal Highway
             Administration Section 4(f) implementing regulations (23 CFR Pat1 774).
              UDOT is preparing an environmental assessment for the BCC Project Tlie purpose of the
              BCC Project is to reduce wintertime traffic congestion on SR-190 from the intersection
              ofSR-190 and Fort Union Boulevard in Cottonwood Heights through the town of
              Brighton in Big Cottonwood Canyon as directed by the Utah Legislature in Senate Bill 2
              in 2023. This bill directs UDOT to use certain Legislature-allocated funds to "provide
              enhanced bus service, tolling, a mobility hub, and resort bus stops for Big [and Little]
              Cottonwood Canyons."
              Two alternatives are evaluated in detail in the BCC Project EA:
                   •      No-action Alternative
                   •      Proposed Action
              The Proposed Action includes enhanced bus service, tolling, a mobility hub, and resort
              bus stops as its primary elements. The Proposed Action would also improve the existing


                               Administration• Telephone (80 I) 965-4000 • Facsimile (80 1) 965-4540 • www.udot.utah.gov
                   Cal,~n Rampton Complex• 4501 South 2700 West• Mailing Address P.O. Box 141510 • Salt Lake City, UT 84 114-15 10
                                                                                                             Page 2


bus stops located at Cardiff Fork, Spruces Campground, Silver Fork, and Silver
Lake/Solitude Nordic Center; add a bus priority lane around Brighton Loop Road from
about Camp Tuttle Road to the southern tip of Brighton Loop Road; add a grade-
separated interchange on Wasatch Boulevard to access the mobility hub; and add a bus-
only transitway at the base of Big Cottonwood Canyon. The proposed improvements
would meet the purpose of the project by reducing wintertime traffic congestion as
directed by Senate Bill 2 in 2023.

Section 4(f)
Section 4(t) Recreation Properties
Section 4(f) applies to s ignificant publicly owned parks and recreation areas that are open
to the public. The land must be officially designated as a park or recreation area, and the
officials with jurisdiction of the land must determine that its primary purpose is as a park
or recreation area.
UDOT has identified one Section 4(f) recreation property 11mder Cottonwood Heights's
jurisdiction that would be potentially affected by the BCC Project - Big Cottonwood
Canyon Trail.

Temporary Occupancy Exception Criteria
Temporary occupancy occurs when a recreation property is occupied during construction
but the impacts are so minimal that they do not constitute a use within the meaning of
Section 4(f). The following conditions must be satisfied:
   l. The duration must be temporary, that is, less than the time needed for construction
      of the project, and there should be no change in ownership of the land;
   2. The scope of the work must be minor, that is, both the nature and the magnitude
      of the changes to the Section 4(f) prope1ty are minimal;
   3. There are no anticipated permanent adverse physical impacts, nor will there be
      interference with the protected activities, features, or attributes of the property on
      either a temporary or permanent basis;
   4. The land being used must be fully restored, that is, the property must be returned
      to a condition which is at least as good as that which existed prior to the project;
      and
   5. There must be documented agreement of the official(s) with jurisdiction over the
      Section 4(f) property regarding the above conditions.

Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail
The Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail is a paved multi-use trail designed for cyclists,
joggers, etc. It extends from Holladay to its terminus at the park-and-ride lot at the
intersection of Wasatch Boulevard and Big Cottonwood Canyon Road. The trail is west
of Wasatch Boulevard and connects to the park-and-ride lot on the east side of Wasatch
Boulevard via an underpass, or via a crosswalk at the signal on Wasatch Boulevard.
There is also a sidewalk that extends from the intersection of Wasatch Boulevard and Big
Cottonwood Canyon Road to an additional park-and-ride lot west of the intersection. The
park-and-ride lot at the Wasatch Boulevard intersection was built to facilitate travel into


                Administration• Telephone (801 ) 965-4000 • Facsimile (801 ) 965-4540 • www.udot.utah.gov
    Cal,~n Rampton Complex• 4501 South 2700 West• Mailing Address P.O. Box 141510 • Salt Lnke City, UT 84114-15 10
                                                                                                                Page 3


Big Cottonwood Canyon; it was not constructed primarily for users of Big Cottonwood
Canyon Trail.

Section 4(f) Use of (Impact to) Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail
To support vehicle parking for the enhanced bus service associated with the Proposed
Action, a mobility hub would be built at the gravel pit site on the east side of Wasatch
Boulevard; the mobility hub would include a parking structure for about 1,750 vehicles.
A one-way, bus-only transitway would run south from the mobility hub, paralleling
Wasatch Boulevard; travel through the current location for the Big Cottonwood Canyon
park-and-ride lot; and exit east onto Big Cottonwood Canyon Road about 0.15 mile up
Big Cottonwood Canyon (at about milepost 2.0). During construction of the bus-only
transitway from the mobility hub to Big Cottonwood Canyon Road, the underpass from
the Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail to the park-and-ride lot would need to be temporarily
closed. Trail users could still access the trail from the park-and-ride lot by using the
crosswalk at Wasatch Boulevard and Big Cottonwood Canyon Road, or by using the
park-and-ride lot west of the intersection and walking the sidewalk to the intersection.
Figure 1 illustrates the BCC Project's effects on the trail.
No right-of-way would be acquired from the trail property, and the trail would be
restored to the same or better conditions after construction. Access to the trail would be
maintained during construction. The park-and-ride lot west of the intersection (about
45 parking spaces) would remain open throughout construction and would not be altered.
Although the Proposed Action would result in a loss of parking spaces from the existing
park-and-ride lot and although the ultimate future use of the area as a park-and-ride lot is
undetermined, there would be a large net gain in parking overall with construction of the
parking structure at the mobility hub.




                Administration• Telephone (801) 965-4000 • Facsimile (801 ) 965-4540 • IV\VW.udot.utab.gov
    Calvin Rampton Complex• 450 1 South 2700 West• Mailing Address P.O. Box 141510 • Salt Lake City, UT 84 114· 1510
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Page 4


Figure 1. Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail - Temporary Occupancy

                                       To,Mobllily Hub and•
                                        f>a'fl<i'ng Structure
                                                                ,.                                           .., ....,
                                                                                                                         ....,....
                                                                                                                                     ....,
                                                                                                                                             .
                                                                                                                                                 ,
                                                                                                                                                              ·". s ~ J
                                                                                                                                                         Salt La,ke 0ty
                                                                                                                                                                       it\.,
                                                                                                                                                                       'r.
                                                                                                                                                                                                  fJ


                                                                                                                                                                                                         ·-:Ji
                                                                                                                                                               ..,IQ~;::·
                                                                                                                           ~
                                                                                                                                             \' •          L. Hpl~.ay:,'.,
                                                                                                                                                     Conoowood He9.2,~,
                                                                                                                                                                                     ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                            ~4 ~ 1'C.
                                                                                                                                                                                                 r..

                                                                                                             ..                                      •        -~,~ ------
                                                                                                                                                                    Y.::,••,

                                                                                                                                                     ' I%-:-
                                                                                                                                                        ,~r.~'{}.-,
                                                                                                                                                           -l
                                                                                                                                                                                              •·t .1.J
                                                                                                                                                                                              ·.~~

                                                                                                                                                                l     !'"..~.   ~

                                                                                                                                                     LEGEND




                                                                                                                                                              Parcels
                                                                                                                                                              Trail
                                                                                                                                                     - - · Trail Underpass




                                                                                                                                                          BIG COTTONWOOD CANYON TRAIL



                                                                                                                                                                                1'
                                                                                                                                                                              7D      140
                                                                                                                                                                           US f [ [ I
                                                                                                                                                                    1 Inch oquaJs 2 29 loci

                                                                                                                                                                Big Cottonwood
                                                                                                                                                                " .. ~a~y~~
                                                                                                                                                                          ~111r•STVOY




                               Adminis1ra1io11 • Telephone (80 I ) 965-4000 • f acsimi le (80 I) 965-4540 • www.udot.utah.gov
                   Calvin Rampton Complex • 450 I South 2700 West • M ailing Address P.O. Box 14 1510 • Salt Lake City. UT 84 114-1 510
                                                                                                                  Page 5



Temporary Occupancy
UDOT reviewed the temporary occupancy exception criteria and applied them to the
effects on the Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail. Because there would be no right-of-way
acquisition, the trail will be restored to the same or better conditions, and trail continuity
would be maintained throughout construction, UDOT's assessment is that there would be
no adverse effects to trail users either temporarily or permanently; and therefore, the
temporary occupancy exception criteria are met and there would be no use of the Big
Cottonwood Canyon Trail.

Request for Concurrence
UDOT is requesting your concurrence that the BCC Project would not adversely affect
the recreational activities, features, or attributes of the Big Cottonwood Canyon trail and
as the official with jurisdiction over the trail, you agree that the temporary occupancy
criteria are satisfied. If you have any questions, please contact me at (80 l ) 910-2035 or
lizrobinson@utah.gov.

Sincerely,

  11J,{!g6~~
Liz Robinson
Cultural Resources Program Manager
Utah Department of Transportation




Based on the Section 4(1) evaluation described above, I concur that the Proposed Action
will not adversely affect the recreational activities, features, and attributes of the Big
Cottonwood Canyon trail, and as the official with jurisdiction over the trail, I agree that
the tempora1y occupancy criteria (23 CFR Section 774. l3(d)) are satisfied.



Gay Lynn Bennion                                                            Date
Mayor, Cottonwood Heights




                Administration • Telephone (80 1) 965-4000 • Facsimile ( 801 ) 965-4540 • www.udot.utah.gov
    Calvin Rampton Comple>< • 4 501 South 2700 West • Mailing Address P.O. Bo>< 141510 • Salt Lake City, UT 84114-1510
                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                   RESOLUTION NO. 2026-09

          A RESOLUTION APPROVING A CONCURRENCE REQUEST FROM UDOT
           (BIG COTTONWOOD CANYON UNDERPASS TEMPORARY CLOSURE)

       WHEREAS, Utah Department of Transportation ("UDOT') intends to constmct a mobility
hub and related improvements on the East side of Wasatch Blvd. that would include parking for 1,750
vehicles, a related one-way bus-only transitway, and other improvements (collectively, the "BCC
Project"); and

        WHEREAS, UDOT has submitted to the city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City") a
concurrence request dated 7 January 2026 (the "Request') (a) explaining that UDOT intends to apply
the Section 4(f) temporary occupancy exclusion under 23 CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS Section
774. l3(d) to the Wasatch Blvd. underpass of the City's Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail (the "Trail")
so that portion of the Trail would be temporarily closed dw-ing construction of the BCC Project, and
(b) requesting the City to concur that such request is pennissible uuder applicable federal law by
signing and returning the Request to UDOT; and

       WHEREAS, the Council met on 20 January 2026 to, among other things, consider
authorizing City' s approval of the Request; and

       WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed the Request, a copy ofwhtd1 is attached hereto; and

        WiH!EREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has det,ennined that it is in the best
interests of the ltealth, safety and welfare of City's residents to approve tlte Request;

       NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights that the Council hereby authorizes the City' s approval of the Request, and directs the City's
mayor and recorder to countersign the Request for the City and cause it to be returned to UDOT.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-09, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

       PASSED AND APPROVED effective 20 January 2026.

ATTEST:                                      COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


                                             By:
B y : - - - - -- - - - - --
  Tiffany Janzen, Recorder
                                                   - - -- - - -- - - - - - -- -
                                                   Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor

                                             VOTING:

                                             Gay Lynn Bennion               Yea_Nay_
                                             Matt Holton                    Yea_Nay_
                                             Suzanne Hyland                 Yea_Nay _
                                             Shawn E. Newell                Yea_Nay _
                                             Ellen Birrell                  Yea _ Nay_
DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 20th day of January 2026.

RECORDED this _ day of January 2026.




                                        2
