Meeting Requested:       Business Meeting IXI   Work Session IXI   Other D

Public Hearing Needed?   Yes D No lg] Undetermined D
                         Denied D Approved ~ Con inued □
CM Approval or Denial
                         CM Signature:--~



Appendix I - Agendas for February 3, 2026, City Council Work Session and Business Meeting

Appendix 2 - Meeting Minutes for City Council Meetings on 1/05/2026 Oath of Office,
1/06/2026 and 1/09/2026 Pre-Legislative Breakfast.

Appendix 3 - Staff Report/ Flash Vote Discussion Jared Gerber

Appendix 4 - Staff Report/General Plan Update Jim Spung

Appendix 5 - Staff Report/Blue Sky Program Discussion Councilmember Shawn Newell

Appendix 6 - Staff Report/URC Discussion Mayor Bennion

Appendix 7 - Staff Report/Budget and Citizen Committee Update Jared Gerber

Appendix 8- Staff Report/Old Mill Discussion Jim Spung

Appendix 9 - Staff Report/Action Items Shane Topham


CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
Attachment 1 - Resolution 2026-10
Attachment 2 - Resolution 2026-11
                   ~ - - 0 0--·,I( ff>\       ,

                        Cottonwood Heights
                        Cuy br11,•u11 the mnJOlll




                       Appendix 1

                   February 3, 2026

City Council Work Session and Business Meeting Agendas
            NOTICE OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
                       WORK SESSION AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights City Council will hold a Work Session at
approximately 4:00 p.m., or soon thereafter, on Tuesday, February 3, 2026, in the Cottonwood
Heights City Council Work Room located at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood Heights,
Utah. The public may remotely view the open portions of the meeting through live broadcast by
connecting to https://www.voutube.com/(tv,CottonwoodHeights/streams, the city's YouTube
channel.

4:00 p.m.     I.     WELCOME - Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion

              2.     REVIEW OF BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA
                     Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion (J 0-15 min.)

              3.     STAFFREPORTS
                     (Each .,veek the city council and staffprovide informational reports as a 1nethod of
                     keeping up on the day-to-day activities of the city. This agenda item is set aside to
                     allow council members to ask questions or/or staffto bring the council up to date
                     regarding any changes since the report was made).

                   a. Flash Vote Discussion
                      City Manager Jared Gerber (20 min.)
                   b. General Plan Update
                      Community and Economic Development Director Jim Spung (20 min.)
                   c. Blue Sky Program Discussion
                      Councilmember Shawn Newell (20 min.)
                   d. URC Discussion
                      Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion (20 minutes)
                   e. Budget and Citizen Committee Update
                      City Manager Jared Gerber (20 min.)
                   f. Old Mill Discussion
                      Community and Economic Development Director Jim Spung (20 min.)


              4.     REVIEW OF CALENDARS AND UPCOMING EVENTS*
                   a. Asian Arts and Culture Association Lobby Exhibit - Monday, January
                      8th to Monday, February 17th, 2026.
                   b. Lunar New Year Celebration - Saturday, February 71\ 2026, from
                      10:00 a.m. to 12-noon at City Hall.
                   c. Senior Bingo at City Hall - Wednesday, February 1st\ 2026, at 1:30
                      p.m. at City Hall
                   d. Local Business Smartest Artist Lobby Art Exhibit-Monday, February
                      20th to Monday, March 18th, 2026
     e. The Jazz Ambassadors of The United States Army Field Band -
        Thursday, March 1911\ 2026, from 7:00 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. at Butler Middle
        School. (Tickets required, Free Event)

      *For more information, please visit CH.UTAH.GOV and click CommunUy
       Calendar


5.   POSSIBLE   CLOSED    MEETING   TO   DISCUSS
     LITIGATION; REAL PROPERTY PURCHASE OR
     LEASE; THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
     COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR lVIENTAL HEALTH
     OF AN INDIVIDUAL; AND/OR ANOTHER PERMITTED
     PURPOSE UNDER UCA 52-2-205

6.    ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION
                                         Cottonwood Heights
                                          City bet111ee11 the cn11yo11s


            NOTICE OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
                      BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights City Council will hold a Business Meeting
beginning at approximately 7:00 p.m., or soon thereafter, on Tuesday, February 3, 2026, in the
Cottonwood Heights City Council Chambers located at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood
Heights, Utah. The public may remotely view the open portions of the meeting through live
broadcast by connecting to https://www.voutube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams, the
city' s YouTube channel.
Persons physically attending the meeting in the City Council Chambers may make verbal comments
to the City Council when invited to do so, after completing a speaker conunent card. Citizen
comments may also be submitted in writing to the city recorder at citvrecorder@ch.utah.gov by
noon, on the meeting date. In the interest of time and those attending the meeting live, however,
submitted written comments will be entered into the record and distributed to the City Council,
but will not be read at the public meeting.
Civility and decorum should be applied in all discussions and debates. Difficult questions,
tough challenges to a point of view, and criticism of ideas and information are legitimate elements
of a free democracy in action. Public officials and the public are encouraged to refrain from making
belligerent, personal, impertinent, slanderous, threatening, abusive, or disparaging comments.

7:00 p.m.      1.0     WELCOME - Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion

               2.0     PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE - By Invitation

               3.0    CITIZEN COMMENTS
                      "During each regular city council meeting (specifically excluding work sessions),
                     there will be a period not to exceed sixty minutes for citizen comment. "(Cottonwood
                     Heights Code of Ordinances 2.30.160 (B)) Persons physically attending the meeting
                     in the City Council Chambers may make verbal comments to the City Council when
                     invited to do so by the meeting chair. Persons al/ending the meeting remotely may
                     not make verbal comments lo the City Council during the meeting. Persons attending
                     the meeting remotely, or who do not attend the meeting eitherphysically or remotely,
                     are invited to submit wrillen comments to the City Recorder before noon on the
                     meeting date. Written comments that are timely submitted will be admitted into the
                     record of the meeting and distributed lo the City Council but will not be read at the
                     public meeting.


               4.0     REPORTS
               4.1     Unified Fire Authority Quarterly Report -Asst. Chief Riley Pilgrim
               4.2     Finance Quarterly Report -Finance Director Scott Jurges

               5.0     ACTION ITEMS
               5.1     Consideration of Resolution 2026-10 Approving an Agreement with
                            Perkins Engineering, Inc. for Engineering Services.
                           (By this resolution the council will approve the city's entry into an independent
                           contractor agreement whereunder Perkins Engineering, Inc. will provide
                           engineering and related sen1ices in connection with the city's planned
                           reconstruction of Highland Drive between Bengal Blvd. and Blackstone Road
                           under City's project no. 004.26).
                  5.2       Consideration of Resolution 2026-11                     Ratifying Revised Council
                            Committee Assignments.
                            (This resolution will approve an amended hst of the council's "outside" and
                            "inside" commillee and board assignments lo incorporate changes made to the
                            list approved under Resolution 2026-08).

                  6.0       CONSENTCALENDAR
                  6.1       Approval of the minutes for the City Council Oath of Office Meeting on
                            January 5, 2026, the City Council Work Session and Business Meetings of
                            January 6, 2026, and the City Council Pre-Legislative Breakfast Meeting of
                            January 9, 2026.

                  7.0       ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING

                                        PUBLIC COMMENT PROCEDURE
      During each City Council business meeting (specifically excluding work sessions), there will be a period
      not to exceed 60 minutes for citizen comment. (Code of Ordinances 2.30.160 (B)). Any person wishing
      to comment on any item not otherwise on the agenda for public comment may address the City Council
      during the Public Comment period. Any person wishing to comment during the Public Comment period
      shall request recognition by the Mayor and upon recognition, approach the microphone and state their
      name, state if they are a resident of Cottonwood Heights and either provide their address or their Council
      district; and then address the City Council. Any person wishing to conunent shall limit their co111111ents to
      no more than three (3) minutes unless more or less time is specified by the Mayor. Citizen groups who are
      present will be asked to appoint a spokesperson, who shall limit their comments to no more than five (S)
      minutes unless more or less time is specified by the Mayor. All comments shall be directed to the City
      Council. No person addressing the City Council during the comment period shall be allowed to cmmnent
      more than once during that comment period. Speakers should not expect any debate or dialogue with the
      Mayor, City Council or City Staff during the meeting.
      The City Council may choose to limit the amount of time allotted to public comment on a specific issue.
      In such cases, special procedures for detem1ining who will be allowed to speak and the order of such
      speakers will be detemuned by the Council. In the interest of tin1e and those attending the meeting live,
      submitted written comments will be entered into the record, distributed to the City Council but not read at
      the public meeting.


011 Thursday, Janumy 29, 2026, a copy of the foregoing notices was posted in conspicuous view in the front foyer of
the Cottonwood Heights City Offices, Co/fonwood Heights, Utah. A copy ofthis notice was sent to the Salt Lake Tribune
and Deseret News, newspap ers ofgeneral circulation in the city, by the Office of the City Recorder. The agendas were
also posted 011 the City's website at w-ww.ch.utah.gov and the Utah Public Notice website at http://p11111.11wh.go v.

DATED this 29'11 day of January 2026                                       Tiffany Janzen, City Recorder

The city building for this meeting is accessible. In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, people with
disabilities may make requests for reasonable acco111111odatio11 or assistance by notifying the City Recorder at 801-944-
7015 or recorder(a c/1.11wli. Ro,·, at least two business days before the meeting, or by calling Relay Utah at 711.
                    Cottonwood Heights
                    City b~tuvrn th~ <•IIIJOIIJ




                   Appendix 2

             MEETING MINUTES
City Council Meetings on 1/05/2026 Oath of Office,
1/06/2026 and 1/09/2026 Pre-Legislative Breakfast
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL ADMINISTRATION
OF OATH OF OFFICE HELD MONDAY, JANUARY 5, 2026, AT 3:00 PM IN THE
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS LOCATED AT 2277 EAST
BENGAL BOULEVARD, COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Members Present:         Mayor-Elect Gay Lynn Bennion, Council Member Shawn Newell, Council
                         Member Suzanne Hyland, Council Member Matt Holton

Staff Present:           City Manager, Jared Gerber; City Attorney, Shane Topham; Police Chief,
                         Robby Russo; Financial Services Director, Scott Jurges; Human Resources
                         Director, Barbara Higgins; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen; Community and
                         Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; IT Manager, Matt Ervin;
                         Public Works Director, Matt Shipp; Master of Ceremonies, Karen Morgan

1.0     WELCOME AND INTRODUCTION OF THE MASTER OF CEREMONIES
        (KAREN MORGAN) - City Manager, Jared Gerber.

City Manager, Jared Gerber, called the meeting to order at 3:00 PM and welcomed those present
and recognized their shared commitment to public service, civic engagement, and the future of
Cottonwood Heights. He expressed gratitude to the City's elected officials, staff, family members,
community residents, and others who took the time to be part of the swearing-in ceremony. He
then introduced Master of Ceremonies, former State Senator, Karen Morgan.

Senator Morgan welcomed those present and stated that those invo1ved in Cottonwood Heights'
incorporation had high hopes, but the City exceeded their greatest dreams.

2.0     POSTING OF COLORS- Cottonwood Heights Police Department.

The Color Guard from the Cottonwood Heights Police Department Posted the Colors.
        -


3.0     PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE - Council Member Matt Holton.

The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Council Member Holton.

4.0     REMARKS- Council Member Suzanne Hyland.

Council Member Hyland stated that it was wonderful to see so many people in attendance at the
ceremony. Last year, unconscionable political violence happened in Utah, and it was refreshing
to pa1.iicipate in a peaceful transition of power and be reminded of the 250th anniversary of the
United States, a great nation that celebrates freedom, equality, and the pursuit of happiness.

In her two years on the City Council, Council Member Hyland has been grateful for the Council' s
civil and dignified discussions. She expressed gratitude for her Council colleagues, as well as
former Mayor Mike Weichers and Mayor-Elect Bennion, and their commitment to acting with
civility. Every human life deserves dignity, and she asked that everyone continue to respect and
give each other grace. She looks forward to serving the City together with her Council colleagues.

Cottonwood Heights Oath of Office Minutes for January 5, 2026            Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      1
5.0       MUSICAL NUMBER - Brighton High School Choir.

The Brighton High School Choir performed a musical number.

6.0        ADMINISTRATION OF OATH OF OFFICE TO NEWLY ELECTED MAYOR
           AND COUNCILMEMBERS - City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen.

City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen, swore in the following newly-elected officials:

      •   Shawn Newell, representing Council District 3;
      •   Ellen Birrell, representing Council District 4; and
      •   Mayor-Elect, Gay Lynn Bennion.

The Oath of Office was administered.

          6.1    REMARKS - Council Member Shawn E Newell - Cottonwood Heights
                 Council District 3.

Council Member Newell expressed his appreciation for being able to serve his constituents. He
has been involved in community and state work for many years, and his time on the Cottonwood
Heights City Council has been a great opportunity to grow and learn. He has great pride in the
City and will continue to de"-ote himself to the community and work collaboratively with residents,
the Council, City committees, and others. As Council Member Hyland mentioned, it is important
to remember your hum~nity no matter where you are in life. It is his pleasure to serve the
community, and he encouraged anyone with questions or concerns to contact him.

          6.2    REMARKS - Council Member Ellen Birrell - Cottonwood Heights Council
                 District 4.

Council Member Birrell was moved by the number of people in attendance. She recalled when
Senator Morgan took office; getting older gives you a real appreciation for where you can go and
the power of doing things together. She thanked Mayor Weichers for his four years of service to
the City. They did not always see things the same way, but they often found common ground, and
she hopes that everyone continues to find things they agree on and show compassion for those in
the community who may be struggling.

In her four years on the Council, Council Member Birrell has seen a great deal of blight in
Cottonwood Heights due to residents struggling with the cost of water and other essential services
and goods. Together, the community can find ways to meet the extreme challenges of the 21 st
century. She worked in the ski industry for 20 years and understands what challenges like the
wanner-than-average December mean for the industry. Humans must face the fact that air, water,
and soil are necessities. Economic development and other ways to bring prosperity to the
community are important, but it is equally important to not lose sight of the things that sustain all



Cottonwood Heights Doth of Office Minutes for January 5, 2026              Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      2
living creatures. She is excited to work together with everyone in the community and believes that
if you look for the best in each other, you will find it.

       6.3      REMARKS - Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion.

Mayor Bennion thanked everyone for their support. This was her fourth election in six years, and
many of those present had participated in those efforts. She thanked all constituents who had
called and emailed with questions, as those interactions made her a better, more informed person.
Whether residents supported her in the past or not, she will be their Mayor and her office will
always be open to them. She will hold open office hours every Friday from 2:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m.,
and all citizens are welcome to attend and share their concerns with her.

Mayor Bennion thanked her family. She and her husba_nd have been together for almost 40 years,
including 26 years in the Air Force. She is also grateful for her children and grandchildren, as well
as her parents, Donald and Joy Chisholm, and siblings. Her parents taught them to work hard,
play hard, forgive each other, and embrace life fully. Alain de Botton said that evidence of good
parenting is that your child has no desire to be famous. She has no desire to be famous but she
does have a desire to serve and make the community better for everyone, and she has been able to
succeed due to the support of the people around her.

When her family moved back to Utah 14 years ago, a neighbor, Suzanne Ulay, introduced Mayor
Bennion to the Women's State Legislative Council of Utah, where she served for seven years and
learned about the state legislature. When Representative Marie Poulson announced that she was
retiring, people encouraged Mayor Bennion to run for office. Groups like the Women's State
Legislative Council 8!:_e desperately needed, as they allow citizens to learn more about the process
and become involved. Members of the group include Cottonwood Heights residents Bette
Voorhees, Donna Murphy, and Lorraine Turner.

Mayor Bennion thanked the City's past mayors. Kelvyn Cullimore worked with minimal staff to
carry the City through very importaI!t times and had the vision to create the City Hall building.
Mike Peterson led Cottonwood Heights through the pandemic and was instrumental in completing
Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail. Mike Weichers led the effort to begin work on the Town Center,
which has been part of the General Plan for 20 years. She also thanked the City Council, who will
guide and help her as she learns more about running the City. She knows they will collaborate and
have great unity and strength together.

As Council Member Birrell mentioned, Mayor Bennion sees the area's changing climate as one of
the City's greatest challenges. She believes the City can rise to the challenge of addressing water
conservation to preserve the Great Salt Lake and can make its buildings and homes more fire-
resistant. Another challenge is that of misinfonnation and artificial intelligence. It is imp01iant to
double-check infonnation against trusted sources to ensure that we make good choices for our
families and community and are not being led astray by misinfonnation.

Cottonwood Heights is an amazing community, and some of the brightest individuals in the state
live here. She is honored to serve as Mayor. However, the City faces a financial challenge. For
the past seven years, reserves have been accessed to balance the budget. The City is at a point

Cottonwood Heights Oath of Office Minutes for January 5, 2026              Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                      3
where it must raise revenues. It is important that the staff and resources are available to prepare
the City for the Town Center, as well as development of the Gravel Pit and Old Mill areas. The
City Council and Staff are a team, and the Council must support City Staff at this critical time.
The Police and Fire Departments are ready to help the City at any time, and it is a basic function
of society to provide safety for citizens.

Mayor Bennion was excited to work with City citizens. She has worked with residents as a State
Representative, and now she is happy to focus on Cottonwood Heights and what can be achieved
together. She will lead a book group in March, August, and November of each year. The first
book is Crucial Conversations: Tools for Talking When the Stakes are High. Cottonwood Heights
was built on a foundation of citizen leadership and engagement, and she wants to help that flourish.

The individuals who laid the foundation for the City include Karen Morgan, who was the area's
State Representative in 1999. At that time, the Salt Lake County Commission was working to
incorporate all unincorporated areas, and surro!!_nding cities were considering annexing parts of
what would become Cottonwood Heights. In 1999, Gordon Nicholl, then-president of the
Cottonwood Heights Community Council, and attorney Kit Lindsey spearheaded the effort to
conduct a feasibility study to incorporate the City. In partnership with Senator Morgan, they
worked against opposition to gather signatures and convince the County Council to conduct the
feasibility study. Senator Morgan said, "I will never forget how excited the three ofus were as we
finally delivered all the necessary information to the Salt Lake County offices by the deadline. We
were relieved when our request for a feasibility study was granted. We were thrilled in May 2002
when the County' s final report indicated that it was feasible for our area to incorporate. An
incorporation committee was established to move the potential city's creation forward. In May
2004, nearly 85% of the citizens in this area voted overwhelmingly in favor of incorporation, and
Cottonwood Heights was incorporated on January 14, 2005 with Kelvyn Cullimore as the first
mayor." Mayor Bennion hopes to continue fostering that type of citizen involvement, as citizens'
expertise and engagement will help the City Council.

Plaques were presented honoring Mr. Nicholl and Mr. Lindsey's contributions to the City.

Mayor Bennion thanked Senator Morgan for being an example to women in leadership. Society
has been led by men for centuries, and only in the last 50 years have women moved into leadership
positions. Senator Morgan opened the door for Mayor Bennion and other women to serve.

Mayor Bennion thanked Mr. Nicholl for his contributions to the City. He was one of the first
paramedics in Utah and served as president of the Cottonwood Heights Community Council. His
daughter, Kris Nicholl, was sworn in earlier that day as a Sandy City Council member.

Mr. Nicholl stated that he and Mayor Cullimore worked closely with other members of the
incorporation committee and spent many hours working to fo1m the City of Cottonwood Heights.
They love the community and want it to thrive and grow.

Senator Morgan remarked that she believes Cottonwood Heights is the greatest city in Utah, and
that is due to the effo1is of the City's leaders and staff. She thanked Mayor Bennion and the City
Council for their willingness to serve, dedication, and commitment to the community.

Cottonwood Heights Oath of Office Minutes for January 5, 2026              Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      4
7.0     ADJOURN

The meeting adjourned at 3:40 PM.




Cottonwood Heights Oath of Office Minutes for January 5, 2026   Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      5
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION HELD
TUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2026, AT 4:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
COUNCIL WORK ROOM LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD,
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Present:                 Mayor Gay Lynn Bem1ion, Council Member Matt Holton, Council Member
                         Ellen Bin-ell, Council Member Suzanne Hyland, Council Member Shawn
                         Newell

Staff Present:           City Manager, Jared Gerber; City Attorney, Shane Topham; Finance Director,
                         Scott Jurges; Police Chief, Robby Russo; Records, Culture, and Human
                         Resources Director, Barbara Higgins; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen;
                         Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; IT Manager,
                         Matt Ervin; Public Works Director and City Engineer, Matt Shipp; Assistant
                         City Engineer, Ben Nelsen; Unified Fire Authority, Riley Pilgrim

1.0     WELCOME - Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion.

Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion called the City Council Work Session to order at 4:00 PM.

2.0     REVIEW OF BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA - Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion.

Mayor Bennion reviewed the Meeting Agenda and stated that the Pledge of Allegiance would be led
by City Attorney, Shane Topham, followed by the Citizen Comment Period. State Senator Kathleen
Riebe would then present a Legislative Citation honoring Stan Rosenzweig. Item 5 was the Public
Works Department Quati~rly Report.

There were 10 legislative action items. Item 6.1 was consideration of Ordinance 458 Adopting an
Annual Meeting Schedule for 2026. Item 6.2 was Consideration of Ordinance 459 Imposing a
Telecommunications Tax.

Item 6.3 was Consideration of Ordinance 460 Granting a Telecommunications Franchise. Public
Works Director, Matt Shipp reported that the franchise agreement would allow Allwest Fiber to install
cable in City rights-of-way. The company intends to begin work in the northwest corner of
Cottonwood Heights and comple_te the project within two years.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Birrell, Mr. Topham confinned that the City is
required to allow utilities to use public rights-of-way. All public utility franchises must use the same
standard ordinance to ensure that they are treated equally. The ordinance had been approved for five
or six other public utility franchises and had worked well. Council Member Bin-ell stated that a
number of her constituents have complained about damage to their landscaping and the lack of
advance notice. In each case, it was difficult to determine which company was perfonning the work.
Mr. Topham clarified that the ordinance does not allow the provider to enter private property.

Public Works Director, Matt Shipp, stated that the City's pennitting and notification requirements
had been updated based on issues with previous work. When Allwest Fiber pulls the permits, Staff

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 6, 2026        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                        1
will meet with them to discuss those requirements. Council Member Newell stated that there had
been great improvements in the process. When he received complaints about previous installations,
he visited those residents' properties and personally called the company to discuss the issue. They
want to do the right thing, but sometimes their subcontractors do not follow policy. He believes that
the City's efforts in communicating its requirements have helped lessen issues with notification and
property restoration.

Council Member Newell asked about Allwest Fiber's plans regarding the outlying areas of the City.
Brand Gonzales of Allwest Fiber stated that some areas will be more challenging. The project will
be phased, and each phase will include an engineering assessment to dete1mine if all homes can be
accessed. Some prope1ties may not be able to have access due to issues like terrain. Installation is
both aerial and underground. Underground cables are installed through boring, not micro-trenching,
and aerial cables allow them to reach more consumers. In response to a follow-up question,
Mr. Gonzales stated that Allwest Fiber was not considering a wireless option. Reliability is still an
issue with mesh networks, and deployment can ~e very invasive. He does not believe wireless will
ever fully replace physical lines, but it does provide an alternative for hard-to-reach customers.

Mayor Bennion remarked that some residents have installed elaborate landscaping in the right-of-
way with rocks and drip irrigation and asked how that would affect the work. Mr. Gonzales stated
that their process involves digging a small pit and then boring under the landscaping. Restoration of
the pit area is typically done the same day. Irrigation lines are sometimes damaged, but those are
repaired. Neighborhood walkthroughs are conducted before and after installation.

Adam Wolk of Allwest_Fiber addressed Council Member Birrell's concerns. They are a Utah-based
company, and they want to take care of the community. Mr. Gonzales added that infonnation is key.
They want residents to know that Allwest is in Cottonwood Heights, and they will provide clear
contact infornrntion to discuss any issues. Mr. Shipp added that as part of the permitting process,
work locatiQ.ns and dates are posted on the City website. The company is also required to notify
residents with door hangers and request the owner's permission for private property access.
Mr. Shipp spoke with the other company that is working in the City, and they indicated that Allwest
Fiber will be a great addition to Cottonwood Heights.

Item 6.4 was consideration of Ordinance 461 Amending the Cottonwood Heights Code Regarding
Bonding of Officers. Mr. Topham reported that House Bill 64 enacted in the last legislative session,
changed a longtime requirement for ce1tain municipal officers to be covered by fidelity bonds. They
now must instead be covered by a crime insurance policy provided by the City. The purpose of the
ordinance was to amend City Code to reflect that change and set a coverage amount of at least $2
million. The City Treasurer has an additional bonding requirement set by the State Treasurer.

Item 6.5 was consideration of Resolution 2026-01 Ratifying the Election of a Mayor Pro Tempore.

Item 6.6 was consideration of Resolution 2026-02 Approving a Revocable Right of Access
Agreement with Rocky Mountain Power for a Public Art Project. City Manager, Jared Gerber,
reported that the resolution would continue the agreement allowing the Cottonwood Heights Arts
Council to wrap utility boxes in the City. Specific locations and art had not yet been dete1mined, but
the agreement was necessary to move forward.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 6, 2026      Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                        2
Item 6.7 was consideration of Resolution 2026-03 Amending a Development Agreement for Canyon
Cove Subdivision. Mr. Gerber stated that the resolution would add the amended Landscape Plan to
the Development Agreement. Five additional trees were added, and others relocated to provide
additional shade. Minor changes can be made at the administrative level, but Staff believed that the
number of changes warranted an amendment. Council Member Hyland stated that the final plan was
not included in the Meeting Packet. There had been three Landscaping Plans for the development,
including one that was recorded in 2024. Mr. Gerber stated that the 2024 plan included the relocation
of two trees and a path. Significant additional changes had been made. The final plan was emailed
to the City Council during the meeting.

Council Member Hyland stated that she walked through the subdivision with Council Member Birrell
and Mayor Bennion. Some approved items had not been installed, including benches and a handrail
to the pavilion. Additionally, a cutout in the asphalt had not been repaired, and the pavilion floods.
Council Member Birrell stated that Architectural Review Commission Chair Scott Peters was present
at the walkthrough and confinned that three trees were planted in a continuous line that should have
been staggered. Council Member Hyland remarked that Ivory Homes needs to be held accountable
for those items before the warranty expires.

Mr. Shipp clarified that the warranty had not started because the City had not accepted the park. All
items that had been mentioned were on the punch list, as well as a number of additional items.
Council Member Birrell asked if the punch list could be made available to the City Council and
citizens. Mr. Gerber reported that the punch list is an internal administrative tool. Council Member
Birrell stated that if it is not a confidential document, it should be made available.

The final Landscape Plan, dated September 25, 2025, was displayed. Council Member Hyland
indicated that the plan differed from the three that had been provided to her. Mr. Gerber reported that
the current plan was created after discussion with the City Council in Fall 2025 and a subsequent
onsite meeting with Ivory Homes. Council Member Hyland stated that two trees were missing from
the plan. Mr. Gerber indicated that the trees had already been relocated. The different plan iterations
were discussed. Mr. Gerber reported that the current plan would add five additional trees and relocate
several large shade trees to provide shade to the benches.

Council Member Holton stated that there is a disconnect between what the Council and public are
hearing which needs to be addressed. Mr. Gerber stated that the original complaint he heard was
regarding a Staff decision on two trees and a path, but the Development Agreement includes a clause
allowing minor changes to be made administratively. That decision was made in 2024 when the plat
was recorded. Landscaping had been ordered according to that plan, but the City asked that they
make additional changes. Mr. Gerber spoke with each Council Member individually at that time, and
the developer then planted to the September 25 plan in good faith.

Council Member Hyland asked if a Budget Amendment would be required for the City to install the
two additional trees. Mr. Gerber stated that there is a one-year warranty period after the City takes
possession of the park, and no work can be performed in that time. After the warranty period is over,
changes and upgrades can be made at any time.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 6, 2026       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                        3
In response to a question raised by Council Member Holton, Mr. Gerber stated that three large shade
trees were moved to provide more shade over the benches. A new tree was placed beside a dying tree
near the pavilion. A few more trees were also added to the north end of the park.

Council Member Hyland stated that Ivory Homes claimed that the damage to the pavilion columns
was preexisting. However, the 2023 agreement requires that they provide evidence of existing
conditions. Mr. Gerber stated that they provided photographs and an inspection report prior to
construction, but not prior to scoping. Those photographs confirm the pavilion damage, and there
was no evidence that it occurred during scoping. Council Member Birrell stated that the damage is
to the cement column bases. She inspected the site during construction, and the damage appeared to
be fresh and caused by the construction equipment. Mr. Gerber stated that the pavilion needs
approximately $15,000 to $20,000 in work, and the concrete repair would be a minor additional cost.

Council Member Hyland stated that if the resolution was -approved, the City Council would be telling
residents that the two additional trees would not be planted until a later date. Mr. Shipp suggested
asking Ivory Homes to install the trees now at the City's expense. The cost for the trees, installation,
and potential irrigation changes would be approximately $2,000 or more. In response to a question
from Mayor Bennion, Mr. Shipp stated that the cost would be higher if installation is delayed.
Mr. Gerber stated that the City had already agreed to pay for five trees. Mr. Shipp indicated that the
location of the two additional trees would have to be added to the Landscape Plan prior to approval.
Mr. Gerber remarked that the current plan was the result of many discussions with Ivory Homes and
the City had pushed hard for those changes. Council Member Hyland stated that she would be
comfortable moving forward with the commitment that two additional trees will be installed after the
warranty expires. Council Member Holton was also in favor of moving forward with Mr. Gerber and
Mr. Shipp's commitment to determining the best way to install the two trees. Mr. Shipp will work
with Mr. Peters to determine the type of trees and location.

Item 6.8 was consideration of Resolution 2026-04 Approving an Interlocal Agreement with Sandy
City for 1:LJoint Crosswalk Study. Assistant City Engineer, Ben Nelsen, reported that the Crosswalk
Safety Study would be for Creek Road from 3500 East to Union Park Avenue. Both cities receive
frequent complaints about the safety of the nine existing crosswalks and requests for additional
crosswalks. The agreement will allow Sandy to execute the study with Cottonwood Heights as a
pmiicipant. They will study the safety of the existing crosswalks, as well as potential additional
crosswalks.

Council Member Hyland stated that she also receives frequent comments about one near her home.
She likes that the citizen committee will be split between residents of Cottonwood Heights and Sandy.
In response to her question, Mr. Nelsen stated that some existing crosswalks could potentially be
recommended for removal or relocation. Mr. Shipp added that the existing crosswalks do not have
ramps, and many of them were painted by church groups. Those would be removed or upgraded.

Council Member Birrell remarked that residents had gathered petitions regarding the unsafe
conditions on Creek Road, specifically at the top of Pepper Hill and the intersection with Danish
Road, and she wanted to ensure that the citizen petitions would be taken into consideration for the
study. With one exception, all pedestrians who had been struck or killed in the last six years were in


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 61 2026        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                        4
crosswalks. She was not in favor of the crosswalk study as the proposal did not specify that the Safe
System approach or the Comprehensive Safety Action Plan ("CSAP") would be utilized.

Mr. Shipp clarified that Sandy was involved in the Wasatch Front CSAP and it would be the basis for
the study. The Statement of Qualifications ("SOQ") includes those principles. Petitions and requests
will be considered as part of the process, but the best locations and types of crosswalks will be
detennined based on hard data. Once the study is completed, both City Councils can decide how to
move forward. The resolution was for the study only.

Council Member Hyland stated that there will be a citizen committee comp1ised equally ofresidents
of Cottonwood Heights and Sandy. Mr. Nelsen clarified that the committee will include staff
members. Mr. Shipp added that the committee's sole purpose is to select the consultant, but the City
has the ability to invite citizens to serve on it. Once the study is drafted, it can be presented to various
subcommittees for discussion. Council Member Birrell -recommended either Zach Geiger or Brad
Buswell from the Active Transportation Subcommittee.

Council Member Birrell stated that the Safe System approach is focused on slowing vehicles down
before danger areas, and that should be foundational. If vehicles are not slowed down prior to
reaching crosswalks, the crosswalks should not be installed.

In response to a question raised by Counci1 Member Hyland, Mr. Shipp stated that the total cost was
not yet known but would likely be betwe-en $15,000 and $20,000. However, the funds are available.
Council Member Hyland was hesitant to spend that amount on Creek Road when the Council had
been discussing a cityw_ide plan. Council Member Birrell noted that the study would be more specific
than a CSAP. Mayor Bennion added that the Creek Road study would be conducted with Sandy.

In response to a question from Mayor Bennion, it was clarified that Mr. Geiger and Mr. Buswell are
citizen volunteers on the Parks, Trails, and Open Space ("PTOS") Committee's Active Transportation
Subcommittee. Mr. Shipp stated that he would prefer they participate in review of the study, not the
selection of the consultant. Council Member Birrell disagreed. Council Member Holton stated that
the PTOS Committee should be involved and engaged in the process.

Mr. Shipp reported that the final consulting agreement would be brought before the City Council in
February.

Item 6.9 was consideration of Resolution 2026-05 Approving an Interlocal Agreement with Salt Lake
County for Aerial Imagery. Mr. Gerber reported that the imaging contract renewal would cost $1 ,200.
Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung stated that the contract is biannual. The
City is in the process of upgrading its servers. Once that project is complete, Cottonwood Heights
will have the option of purchasing its own imagery in the future.

Item 6.10 was consideration of Resolution 2026-06 Approving an Appointment to the Arts Council.
Mr. Gerber stated that Lucas Manning from District 1 was interviewed for the position. He has been
involved in the arts as a professional dance teacher and theater director. Staff recommended the
appointment.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 6, 2026           Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                        5
Council Member Hyland referred to Item 6.1 and noted that in 2025, the City Council decided not to
meet on Election Day. Council Member Holton stated that it is odd to meet on Election Day. Council
Member Newell remarked that not having a meeting in 2025 worked out well. Mr. Geber indicated
that the motion could be amended to remove that date.

The final Agenda Item was the Consent Calendar.

3.0     REPORTS

        3.1      Utah Open Lands Transit to Trails Program -Josh Stasinos.

Utah Open Lands Executive Director, Wendy Fisher, introduced herself and Community Engagement
Director, Josh Stasinos. Utah Open Lands is a nonprofit 50l(c)(3) land trust. Their mission is to
preserve land for recreational and open space values. They work with fa1mers and ranchers on
wildlife habitats and maintain various properties with conservation easements. Bonanza Flat is one
such property.

In 2017, 1,341 acres ofland were slated for development. Utah Open Lands, in association with Park
City, ran a $13 million campaign to purchase the land. Various c01mnunities provided funding,
including Salt Lake County. Park City residents then approved a $25 million bond to acquire Bonanza
Flat. Utah Open Lands believes that Bonanza Flat helps alleviate pressure on Big and Little
Cottonwood Canyons. It has 1,500 protected acres and has several trails, including the Bloods Lake
and Bonanza Loop Trails.

Bonanza Flat is a popular hiking and biking destination with limited parking. A video from 2019 was
displayed showing many_cars parked on the sides of the road and pedestrians walking in the road,
which was a safety issue. By 2025, parking enforcement efforts had successfully resolved the
problem. A transit line_from Park City was also added. The Transit to Trails program started with a
small concierge ptogra~ and had since blossomed into a full transit program.

Cell phone d_ata indicates that a high percentage of visitors are from the Salt Lake Valley, as well as
out of state. In-response to a question raised by Council Member Birrell, it was clarified that the data
was specific tot he Bloods Lake and Bonanza Flat Trailheads. Mr. Stasinos reported that Park City
was the first city to b_e awarded Gold Class Destination status by the International Mountain Biking
Association.

Ms. Fisher stated that they were now looking at solutions for visitors from the Wasatch Front. The
purple transit line is a free service from Park City that runs every 15 minutes in peak season. Park
City residents can receive free parking passes for the paid parking areas at the trailheads. However,
the transit line is so convenient that they are not utilizing the free parking.

Council Member Birrell asked if the visitors from other states had lodging in Park City. Ms. Fisher
stated that statistics show that the average visitor only stays for a total of30 minutes, especially during
the Fall leaf season. They typically do not stay in Park City.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 61 2026          Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                        6
Utah Open Lands proposed a free, reservation-based shuttle service that would run every weekend
between July 4 through September 30 each year and depart from Cottonwood Heights. There would
be two vans with bike capacity. Dogs would not be allowed.

The total program cost is approximately $75,000, and Utah Open Lands will contribute up to 50%.
The shuttle company will also be contributing. They previously received $10,000 for the program
from the Central Wasatch Commission ("CWC") and may be able to secure additional funds, but the
Commission wanted to see other cities participating first. Their request was that the City Council
consider allowing shuttles to depart from Cottonwood Heights, as well as a contribution of $10,000.
They would be also be making the request of Sandy, Salt Lake County, Brighton. Millcreek had
declined participation. Utah Open Lands believes that the additional line will alleviate traffic issues
and provide an opportunity for residents to access Bonanza Flat without having to pay for parking. It
will also reduce carbon emissions and decrease traffic through Big Cottonwood Canyon.

Council Member Birrell stated that the large parking lot at 6200 South in Holladay is empty outside
of ski season. Additional parking has no value to Cottonwood Heights. The City Council does not
want more parking lots, and she does not believe it wants more cars driviµg through the City.
Mr. Stasinos stated that they would speak with the City of Holladay, and they could also consider any
other location that the Council felt was advantageous for Cottonwood Heights.

In response to a question raised by Mayor Bennion, Mr. Stasinos stated that there would two shuttles
at one-and-a-half hour intervals between 8:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. The pilot program would run on
Saturdays and Sundays, and they would reevaluate the schedule at the end of the first season.
Ms. Fisher stated that they chose Cottonwood Heights because it is a central location, but they were
open to consideration other locations. They hope to begin the program this year.

Mayor Bennion stated that she asked Finance Director, Scott Jurges, how the contribution would
affect the City's very tight budget. Mr. Jurges stated that it a Budget Adjustment would be required,
and it would add to the downward trajectory of the General Fund balance. Council Member Hyland
stated that a contribution of $10,000 should support business activity, and locating it on the edge of
the City may not accomplish that goal. She needed more time to consider the proposal. Mr. Gerber
stated that the City had an agreement for public parking stalls in the garage at Canyon Centre. This
option was discussed. Council Member Holton stated that local residents would be more likely to
just go home, but tourists may potentially visit Canyon Centre restaurants.

In response to a question from Council Member Birrell, Ms. Fisher stated that their ask was based on
who would benefit from the service, and they understood that the Council needed time to consider
the matter. She asked that they clarify whether the City would support the service at some level, and
if not, what would be required to obtain that support.

Mayor Bennion stated that she likes the idea of the service. She has visited Bloods Lake, and she was
pleased to see that the parking situation had improved. However, it is a tough budget year.

Council Member Hyland was grateful that Utah Open Lands is in discussions with the CWC as she
is frustrated at their lack of focus on transportation to the canyons. The City needs a return on its
investment in the CWC.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 6, 2026       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                        7
Council Member Holton stated that there is a reason the canyons are not part of the City. In his
opinion, the county government is the appropriate entity to pay for the service. It would add a burden
to the police department and impact the City in various ways. They needed to consider what the
appropriate level of funding is and who should fund it.

Council Member Newell agreed with Council Member Holton. It is great to see that people are
utilizing the trails, but the City Council is responsible for looking after Cottonwood Heights residents.
He asked for specific infonnation on how many City residents visit the area. He also agreed with
Council Member Hyland that anything the City contributes to needs to stimulate its economy while
not being disruptive to residents. He likes the idea of utilizing the 200 unused parking spaces at the
mouth of the canyon, but they need to find the right funding resource and location.

Council Member Birrell stated that she is in favor of anything that reduces private vehicles on
roadways.

In response to a question raised by Ms. Fisher, Council Member Newell stated that the City Council
needs to have a more in-depth discussion about the matter prior to accepting or rejecting the proposal.
Council Member Holton stated that non-profit organizations often make requests that the City is not
in a position to fulfill. It can be difficult to fund some organizations and not others, and he did not
know if the City was in a position to participate in this program. Mayor Bennion stated that a smaller
contribution may be possible if other entities can contribute more. Ms. Fisher thanked the Council
for the cla1ification.

4.0     STAFF REPORTS

        4.1     Big Cottonwood Canyon EA Response Letter Discussion - City Manager, Jared
                Gerber.

Mayor Benrµon appreciated the citizen input that had been received on this topic. She had made some
minor chang~ to Mr. Gerber's draft letter, but she wanted to keep its tone and stressed that the City
appreciates the effort of the Utah Department ofTranspmiation ("UDOT"). More bullet points were
added to emphasize areas of importance such as flow-through arterials and delaying tolling until
adequate bus service is available.

Council Member Birrell stated that she had contributed to the effort over the last five days.
Mr. Gerber set a great tone, and Mayor Bennion continued it with her changes. She feels very good
about the language in the letter. As the District 4 representative, she believes there should be more
emphasis on the issue with Fort Union Boulevard and other City roadways being intractable during
peak hours. However, she believes the letter will be readable and hearable by UDOT.

Council Member Hyland questioned the te1m "additional riders" in the Conclusion (first paragraph,
second sentence), which reads, "Tolling, enhanced bus service, and bus priority infrastructure must
function as an integrated system, implemented together in both Big and Little Cottonwood Canyons,
and only when transit capacity is sufficient to service additional riders." Mayor Bennion stated that
the sentence is meant to convey the City's position on tolling but agreed that the wording could be

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 6, 2026         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                        8
clarified. Council Member Hyland appreciated that the Council's feedback was taken into
consideration for the final draft.

The Council discussed whether each Council member should sign the letter in addition to the Mayor.
It was noted that historically such letters come from the Mayor, and the letter indicates that it is being
sent on behalf of the Mayor and City Council. The final letter will be sent to both UDOT and the
United States Forest Service.

        4.2     Telecom Tax Discussion - City Manager, Jared Gerber.

Mr. Jurges reviewed information regarding the Telecom Franchise Tax. He explained that Franchise
taxes must be imposed at the beginning of a quarter, so the earliest the tax could be implemented
would be July 1, 2026. Cottonwood Heights is the only city in Salt Lake County that does not charge
a Telecom Franchise Tax, and Mr. Jurges estimates tharit would generate approximately $150,000
per year in additional revenue. A tax of up to 3.5% is a1lowed, and most cities charge the maximum.

Council Member Newell stated that the City budget is not in a good place, and it is the Council's
responsibility to ensure that the budget is solvent. Their decisions will impact the community for
many years, just like the City is in its cmTent position due to decisions that were made many years
ago. His focus is on making the right d~cisions now and setting the precedent of being conscious and
strategic about the fiscal changes the C9uncif enacts. Sometimes their decisions are not popular or
easy. He would do everything it takes to ensure that his personal budget considers both his present
circumstances and his children's future, and as government officia1s the City Council is charged with
doing the same for the residents of Cottonwood Heights. The Telecom Franchise Tax would make a
small positive impact on the City budget with an equally small (approximately $8 per year) impact
on residents. Mayor Bennion agreed.

Council Member Holton remarked that taxes would be a big topic for the year. His philosophy is that
the government is a function of the people, and the Council needs to ensure that they are working for
them rather than just asking for more. The Telecom Franchise Tax was part of a broader discussion
on revenue streams. He is not in favor of fees because he does not believe they are transparent. He
remembers having to decide if could afford to have Netflix in a given month, and he tends to side
with those who are similarly struggling. It may be a small fee, but residents do not have a choice in
paying it. He believes that the City also needs to feel pain.

Council Member Holton stated that Cottonwood Heights is in a unique position because it is more
expensive to live in than surrounding cities. In his calculations, a resident with a home value of
$631,000 pays $750.91 in City taxes, including debt service but excluding the Town Center bond.
Mr. Jurges clarified that in 2025, the average home in Cottonwood Heights was valued at $819,000
and paid $585 in base City tax and an additional $94.19 on the general obligation bond, for a total of
$679 .19. Council Member Holton stated that he included the Recreation Center in his calculation.
He understands that it is a different entity, but the tax is only collected within City boundaries. A
resident of Holladay with the same home value would only pay $463, Sandy $374, and Draper $322.
He understands that Draper and Sandy have higher sales tax revenue. However, Cottonwood Heights
residents pay almost triple in comparison to those cities. He was not in favor of adding an additional
tax without also reducing expenses, even if doing so would affect the level of service.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 6, 2026          Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                        9
Council Member Newell remarked that the community has shared burdens and responsibilities, and
the City is transparent and clearly communicates with its residents. He empathizes with people who
are having a hard time, but the reality of the City's service levels must also be considered. The budget
is very slim, and they need to find ways to improve both cost savings and meet the responsibility of
being able to provide necessary services to the community.

Council Member Holton stated that the City is in an unfortunate position because it is the last line of
defense, which puts it at a disadvantage. People are experiencing inflation at the grocery store, health
costs are increasing, and many people are on fixed incomes. Council Member Newell agreed that it
puts the City in a hard place, but it will be in a harder place if the City Council does not react.

Council Member Hyland stated that sales tax responds to inflation, but Cottonwood Heights is a
bedroom community with limited commercial development. She challenged Council Member Holton
to live on his 2018 income. Inflation is 29%, and costs have risen significantly due to the inflationary
pressures of the past few years. That requires an adjustment. She agreed with Council Member
Newell that the budget must be made whole. The City was previously the beneficiary of American
Rescue Plan Act ("ARPA") funds, but they are no 1onger available, and the Council must determine
how to continue to provide City services. There is a benefit to paying taxes. People often want
Cadillac services at Chevrolet prices.

Council Member Holton indicated that residents need to be engaged. It is impossible to never raise
taxes, but the question is how they are raised and who bears the burden. He believes residents need
to say what they want to happen in the City.

Council Member Newell stated that he does not want Cottonwood Heights to experience what
happened to other municipalities a few years previously when residents were hit with 110% tax
mcreases.

Mayor Bennion agreed with Council Member Newell and noted that the City is eating into its reserves
to the point where it will no longer be able to apply for grants because it will not have matching funds.
She believes it is imperative to have these discussions. Everyone else in the County pays a Telecom
Franchise Tax, so in a way it is unfair for Cottonwood Heights to not take advantage of it. The City
Council travel budget was recently increased, and they may be able to reduce that amount. She is
happy to consider areas where cuts can be made. However, City Staff has been very limited over the
past several years, and the City needs to invest in very important areas like computer security and
other things that are overdue and cannot continue to be delayed.

        4.3     FlashVote Survey Discussion - City Manager, Jared Gerber.

Mr. Gerber stated that the second Flash Vote survey had been delayed but should go out this month.
He asked if the Council had any additional changes.

Council Member Hyland recommended that Mr. Gerber ask FlashVote if the responses for Questions
3 and 4 should be ranked, for example, if respondents should rank their top three priorities. Council
Member Holton stated that residents need to better understand what a potential tax increase would

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 6, 2026        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       10
look like. Council Member Hyland clarified that there are no questions on the survey about a tax
increase. The survey asks if residents know how much of their property taxes go to the City and
where they would spend $100. This will be the second of six surveys, and all six must be completed
by August.

Mayor Bennion stated that it is important to engage residents in the process and ensure they are aware
of the decisions the Council is making, and inviting them to paiticipate through the survey questions
is a great way to do so. Mr. Gerber indicated that a survey with specific questions could be conducted
during the budget process. Council Member Newell recommended conducting that survey after the
Budget Retreat. Council Member Holton agreed.

Council Member Hyland stated that a short-term rental survey is still a priority.

        4.4      Legislative Priorities Discussion - City Manager, Jared Gerber.

Mayor Bennion repmted that the City Council and Staff would meet with State legislators the
following Friday to speak about the City's priorities. Lobbyists Brian Allen an9 Greg Curtis will be
in attendance to share inf01mation on the bills they are tracking, and she will ask Mr. Allen to send
an email outlining those bills prior to the meeting. In her previous position, she met with other cities
in December of each year, and she found the meetings to be very informative. Mayor Bennion is
concerned about a potential bill that would limit cities' ability to raise property taxes. Wasatch
Boulevard, ski season congestion, the gondola, and other concerns should also be reiterated at the
meeting.

Council Member Hyland stated that Cottonwood Heights bears a huge burden for state tourism that
is not adequately acknowledged. She would also like to mention the difficulties resulting from the
changes made to annexation. Mr. Shipp remarked that the City had been through three annexations,
and each required a different process and subprocesses. Different levels of government also
interpreted those subprocesses differently. Clarified, streamlined processes for annexation, taxation,
etc. woula._be helpful.

Mayor Bennion stated that Mr. Allen provides a great service to the City. He has decades of
experience with the legislature and works very closely with legislators. She is grateful for his service
and is looking forward to getting to know Mr. Curtis.

Mr. Gerber stated that he met with Mr. Allen, and most of the bills he will be speaking about have
been discussed by the Council. There are bills related to land use, short-te1m rentals, accessory
dwelling units, and taxes. He will ask Mr. Curtis to send an email regarding funding infonnation.

Police Chief, Robby Russo, expressed concern about litigation regarding contract prosecutors who
are not employed by the City. Some attorneys are suing because they do not have the authority to
prosecute criminal traffic cases. Mr. Gerber reported that Holladay's prosector is retiring and the
finn will no longer represent cities, so they are moving prosecution in-house. That will raise the
City's costs.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 6, 2026        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       11
Mr. Topham stated that Cottonwood Heights faced a lawsuit a few years ago where the plaintiff
claimed that cities cannot use contract prosecutors. Counties are allowed to contract with prosectors,
but cities are not mentioned in that statute. He will forward a proposed amendment to correct this
issue.

Mr. Spung stated that land use is always a big topic at the legislature. Last year, there were hundreds
of proposed bills on land use alone. He understands the intent of the legislation, but how laws are
written matters and it is important that cities retain the ability to craft language specific to their
community. Hot topics are allowing apartments on commercially zoned land, apartments by right,
allowing commercial buildings to be converted to apaiiments, accessory dwelling units ("ADU"),
parking mandates, and minimum lot sizes for starter homes. There is talk about housing affordability
and attainability, but what is missing from that conversation is an inventory of what cities already
have. The cmTent push is to build new starter homes, but resources could often be better used to
retain existing housing stock that is already at or below the target price point. Council Member
Birrell thanked Mr. Spung for bringing the issue up as she shares his concerns.

Mr. Spung believes there is room in the City to achieve its affordability goals but is nervous about
the possibility of the State removing lot size restrictions, for example, because that would change the
area's character. It is important to be strategic and calculated in how the goals are achieved, and that
is best accomplished at the local level. He understands that legislation is often driven by communities
that refuse to act, but that unfairly impact other communities.

Council Member Newell appreciated that Mr. Spung is considering the City's cun-ent inventory. A
reality in Cottonwood Heights is that land is very expensive, which is different from communities
that have blank slates to work with. Even small, moderate-sized homes in the City are unaffordable
for many people. Legislators need to emphasize that differentiation.

Mayor Bennion expressed gratitude that Cottonwood Heights is part of the Utah League of Cities and
Towns as -they do an excellent job of advocating for cities at the State level. Local control is best.
She recently met with a resident of Holladay whose company builds flex-ADU homes, which are pre-
built with an ADU. Their lowest-cost home is $550,000, but that is a two-family home. They are
affordable, and they are built to ensure that both families are comfortable. He would love to build a
development in the City, and the community needs to be open to allowing that type of development
on smaller lots to ensure affordability. It is important to attract as many families and people of all
ages and incomes as possible.

        4.5     Distribution and Collection of Mayor Pro Tempore Ballots - City Recorder,
                 Tiffany Janzen~

Mayor Bennion stated that she was fortunate to work with everyone on the City Council. Council
Member Newell did an excellent job of serving as Mayor Pro Tempore, but it was important to share
the responsibility. Council Member BiITell was prepared and would like to serve. Council Member
Hyland appreciated rotating the responsibility.

The vote was conducted via secret ballot. City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen, tabulated the votes. Council
Member Hyland was elected to serve as Mayor Pro Tempore.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 61 2026        Approved: _ _ __ __

                                                       12
5.0     REVIEW OF CALENDAR AND UPCOMING EVENTS.

        5.1     Saturday, February 7 from 10:00 AM to 12:00 PM - Lunar New Year
                Celebration at City Hall.
        5.2     Friday, February 20 from 6:00 PM to 8:00 PM - Cozy Paint Night at City Hall.
                (Cost is $20 per person, limited space is available).
        5.3     Thursday, March 19 from 7:00 PM to 8:30 PM - The Jazz Ambassadors of the
                US Army Field Band at Butler Middle School. (Tickets required, free event).

6.0     POSSIBLE CLOSED MEETING TO DISCUSS LITIGATION, PURCHASE OR
        LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY, THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
        COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH OF AN INDIVIDUAL, OR
        ANY OTHER PERMITTED PURPOSE FOR-CLOSED MEETINGS UNDER UTAH
        CODE ANN. 52-4-205 OR OTHER APPLICABLE LAW.

There was no Closed Meeting.

7.0     ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION.

MOTION: Council Member Holton moved to ADJOURN the City Council Work Session. The
motion was seconded by Council Member Newell. The motion passed with the unanimous consent
of the Council.

The Work Session adjourned at 6:17 PM.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 6, 2026   Approved: _ _ _ __

                                                       13
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
HELD TUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2026, AT 7:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD,
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Present:                 Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion, Council Member Matt Holton, Council Member
                         Ellen Binell, Council Member Suzanne Hyland, Council Member Shawn
                         Newell

Staff Present:           City Manager, Jared Gerber; City Attorney, Shane Topham; Finance Director,
                         Scott Jurges; Police Chief, Robby Russo; Records, Culture, and Human
                         Resources Director, Barbara Higgins; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen;
                         Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; IT Manager,
                         Matt Ervin; Public Works Director and City Engineer, Matt Shipp; Unified
                         Fire Authority, Riley Pilgrim

1.0     WELCOME

Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion called the City Council Business Meeting to order at 7:00 PM.

2.0     PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE

City Attorney, Shane Topham, led the Pledge of Allegiance.

3.0     CITIZEN COMMENTS

Mayor Bennion opened the Citizen Comment period.

Maggie Mills provided updates on upcoming Whitmore Library activities. There are two new
monthly_l)__rograms for school-aged children: Lego Club on January 7 at 4:00 p.m. and Steam Club on
Wednesday January 21 at 4:00 p.m. Family Preschool Storytime is held every Monday, Tuesday,
and Thursday at 10: 15 a.m. The Babcock Perfo1ming Readers will present Twelve Ang,y Men on
Thursday, January 15 at 7:00 p.m. The Nonfiction Book Club will meet on January 21 at 7:00 p.m.
to discuss How to be Perfect by Michael Schur. The activity calendar is available on the Salt Lake
County Public Library website and in the Between the Canyons newsletter.

Erik Krahn stated that the City Council needs to be conscious of the promise made by the previous
Council. When the general obligation bond passed, citizens were promised that the City would not
need to increase taxes for the next five years. There is a lack of appetite for tax increases in the area.
Salt Lake County is facing a referendum, and he does not want that to happen in Cottonwood Heights.
He also expressed concern about light pollution. Some public lighting negatively impacts private
properties, including his home, and light pollution can interfere with ho1mone production and increase
cancer risks. The issue could be addressed by adding shades to the light poles. He also stated that
prope1iy owners are blocking access to the trails behind the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints on Top of the World Drive, and those trails have been in the community since World War II
and are public rights-of-way. House Bill 290, which went into effect in May 2025, made obstructing

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 6, 2026         Approved: _ _   _ _ __

                                                       14
bicycle lanes illegal. Earlier that day, he counted five illegally parked cars between his home and the
post office. He did not believe there had been an effort to educate the public or enforce the new law.

Randy Long stated that he is an avid hiker and camper. All the City's trailheads need to be preserved.
The Deaf Smith Canyon and Ferguson Trails can be improved, and Bonneville Shoreline Trail needs
to be completed.

There were no further comments. The Citizen Comment period was closed.

4.0       RECOGNITION

          4.1    State Citation Legislative Certificate for Stan Rosenzweig - Senator Kathleen
                 Riebe.

Utah State Senator Kathleen Riebe read the State Citation Legislative Certificate for Cottonwood
Heights citizen Stan Rosenzweig, who passed away in 2025. The certificate was presented to his
widow Ronna. Mrs. Rosenzweig remarked that Stan would have been very honored with the
recognition. He always said that he made two great decisions in his life: the first was marrying her,
and the second was living in Cottonwood Heights.

Mayor Bennion was personally impacted by Mr. Rosenzweig. He showed her how to be a better state
legislator. He invited her and Senator Riebe to tour The Family Support Center so they could better
understand its impact. Thousands of people's lives are better because of Stan Rosenzweig.

Council Member Holton shared a favorite memory of Mr. Rosenzweig. When he ran for office, he
passed out cookies. Mr. Rosenzweig mailed the wrapper back to him filled with candy.

5.0       REPORTS

                 Public Works Quarterly Report -Public Works Director. Matt Shipp.

Mr. Shipp presented the Quarterly Report on recently completed, current, and pending Public Works
projects.

      •   The second annual Holiday Drive was very successful. Over 500 pairs of socks, hats, and
          gloves were donated to The Road Home. Staff had a lot of fun with the event, and they intend
          to continue to hold it annually.

      •   Snowfall was lower than normally, with only two inches so far this year.

      •   A total of 11 dog waste stations had been installed in City parks, as well as 14 "Dog on Leash"
          signs.

      •   Over 4,000 lane miles of road were swept in 2025, resulting in collection and disposal of over
          375 tons of debris.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 6, 2026         Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                       15
    •   Approximately 1,800 storm drain grates and 100 storm drain inlets were cleaned out.

    •   Approximately 350 tons of asphalt was used to fill potholes.

    •   Milling and overlay projects:

             o In partnership with the Metropolitan Water District of Salt Lake and Sandy,
               approximately 150,000 square feet of overlay was applied to Fort Union Boulevard
               between Wasatch Boulevard and Griffiths Place. When the project is completed, the
               overlay will extend to Nutree Drive. Mr. Shipp will be presenting a proposal to extend
               the work to 3000 East at a future City Council meeting.
             o Approximately 63,000 square feet on 1700 East between Fort Union Boulevard and
               7200 South.
             o Approximately 240,000 square feet on Union Park Avenue between Creek Road and
               Interstate 215. In response to a question raised by Council Member Hyland, Mr. Shipp
               reported that he was still working with Midvale on the Cost-Shming Agreement for
               the shared medians. Mr. Gerber indicated that existing CDRA funding was used for
               the asphalt and median beautification.

    •   A failing 42-inch corrugated metal storm drainpipe was replaced with a 48-inch reinforced
        concrete pipe on King's Hill Drive.

    •   Sidewalk and frontage improvements were completed on Creek Road at 7425 South and 2175
        East. Council Member Hyland stated that she had received many compliments from residents.
        Sandy completed the other side of the road, so it is now much safer for pedestrians to walk to
        the school or church. Council Member Holton stated that he had also received compliments
        on the project.

    •   Approximately 200 potential sidewalk trip hazards were identified and the affected concrete
        replaced in the area bounded by 2300 East, Fo11 Union Boulevard, Hollow Mill Drive, and
        6710 South. Approximately 400 trip hazards were corrected in 2025. In response to a
        question raised by Council Member Holton, Mr. Shipp stated that full squares of concrete are
        replaced, and trip hazards are addressed quickly. The proposed 2026 repair budget will be
        discussed at the Budget Retreat.

    •   Curb, gutter, and asphalt replacement was completed in the area bounded by Steffensen Drive,
        Carole D1ive, Dell Road, and Pamela Drive, as well as parts of Cardiff Drive. Storm drain
        improvements in the area included five new sump pumps and upgraded wate1ways.

    •   Projects in the design stage:

            o Staker Way drainage
            o Highland Drive mill and overlay



Cottonwood Heigh ts City Council Meeting Minutes for January 6, 2026     Approved: _ _ __ __

                                                        16
                  Mr. Shipp reported that design was required for this project because all sidewalk
                  ramps must be upgraded to meet Americans with Disabilities Act ("ADA")
                  requirements, and the waterways must be upgraded to meet current City standards.
                o Cardiff area rebuild
                o Highland Drive and Fort Union Boulevard intersection improvements
                  This project will add a third northbound lane and potential median on Highland Drive.
                  In response to a question from Council Member Holton, Mr. Shipp stated that adding
                  a third lane or median will not impact the mill and overlay project. That project needs
                  to begin as soon as possible due to the dete1iorating conditions on Highland Drive.
                o Highland Trail Phase 3

      •   Stonn Drain Master Plan
                Staff was in the process of reviewing the final draft prior to presentation to the City
                Council.

      •   Outside projects
             o Cottonwood Com1ection: work has shifted to the south side of the City. Danish Road
                 will be closed for most of the winter.

6.0       ACTION ITEMS

          6.1      Consideration of Ordinance 458 Adopting an Annual Meeting Schedule for 2026.
                   (This Ordinance will Adopt a Schedule for Regular Meetings of the City's City
                   Council, Planning Commission and other public bodies for calendar year 2026, as
                   requiriil by Utah Code Ann. 52-4-202).

Mayor Bennion reported that the above item was discussed during the Work Session.

MOTIO_N: Council Member Hyland moved to APPROVE Ordinance 458 - Adopting an Annual
Meeting ~chedule for 2026, as amended to remove November 3, 2026, from the City Council meeting
schedule. The motion was seconded by Council Member Holton. Vote on Motion: Council Member
Holton-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Birrell-
Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

          6.2      Consideration of Ordinance 459 Imposing a Telecommunications Tax. (This
                   Ordinance will impose a 3.5% Municipal Telecommunications License Tax 011 a
                   Telecommunications Provider's gross receipts from Telecommunications Services
                   that are attributed to the City of Cottonwood Heights as provided in the Municipal
                   Telecommunications License Tax Act, UTAH CODE ANN. 10-1-401 et seq., and
                   Enact New Chapter 3.12 o[the City's Code of Ordinances concerning such License
                   Tax).

Mayor Bennion reported that the above item was discussed during the Work Session.

MOTION:      Council Member Birell moved to APPROVE Ordinance 459 Imposing a
Telecommunications Tax. The motion was seconded by Council Member Newell. Vote on Motion:

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 6, 2026          Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       17
Council Member Holton-No; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member Newell-Yes; Council
Member Birrell-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion passed 4-to-l.

        6.3     Consideration of Ordinance 460 Granting a Telecommunications Franchise.
                (This Ordinance will Grant a Non-Exclusive Franchise Allowing All West/Utah,
                Inc. dlb/a All West Fiber to Install and Operate a Fiber-Optic Cable
                Telecommunications System in the City's Public Right-of-Way).

Mayor Bennion reported that the above item was discussed during the Work Session.

MOTION:      Council Member Newell moved to APPROVE Ordinance 460 Granting a
Telec01mnunications Franchise. The motion was seconded by Council Member Birrell. Vote on
Motion: Council Member Holton-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member Newell-Yes;
Council Member Birrell-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

        6.4     Consideration of Ordinance 461 Amending the Cottonwood Heights Code
                Regarding Bonding of Officers. (This Ordinance will Amend Section 2.10.050 of
                the City's Code of Ordinances to change the1idelity Bonding Requirement for
                certain City Officers as formerly specified in State Law to instead require Crime
                Insurance Coverage as provided in H.B. 64 enacted by the Utah Legislature in its
                2025 General Session).·

Mayor Bennion reported that the above item was discussed during the Work Session.

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to APPROVE Ordinance 461 Amending the
Cottonwood Heights Code Regarding Bonding of Officers. The motion was seconded by Council
Member Birrell. Vote on Motion: Council Member Holton-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes;
Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Birrell-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion
passed unanimously.

        6.5     Consideration of Resolution 2026-01 Ratifying the Election of a Mayor Pro
                Tempore. (Section 2.30.040 of the City's Code of Ordinances provides that the
                Council at its first Regular Meeting in January of even-numbered years shall by
                Secret Ballot Elect a Mayor Pro Tempore to perform certain limited functions o[the
                Mayor during times when the Mayor is unable or unwilling to act. This Resolution
                will Ratifv such Election of a Mayor Pro Tempore for January 2026 until a
                Successor is elected, likely in January 2028).

Mayor Be1mion reported that the above item was discussed during the Work Session. The City
Council chose Council Member Hyland to serve as Mayor Pro Tempore.

MOTION: Council Member Holton moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-01 Ratifying the
Election of a Mayor Pro Tempore. The motion was seconded by Council Member Newell. Vote on
Motion: Council Member Holton-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member Newell-Yes;
Council Member Birrell-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 6, 2026    Approved: _ _ __ _ _

                                                       18
        6.6     Consideration of Resolution 2026-02 Approving a Revocable Right of Access
                Agreement with Rocky Mountain Power for a Public Art Project. (By this
                Resolution, the Council will Approve the City's Entry into an Agreement
                whereunder Rocky Mountain Power will Authorize the City to Continue
                Implementation ofa Community Art Pilot Program allowing local artists to decorate
                certain o(RMP's pad-mounted electric transmission and distribution equipment in
                the City's public places).

Mayor Bennion reported that the above item was discussed during the Work Session.

Council Member Newell remarked that the Cottonwood Heights Arts Council project includes the
works of phenomenal artists. The wraps have a minimt1m three-year guarantee, so they will look
good for several years. Council Member Hyland agreed that the project is a great part of the City.

MOTION: Council Member Newell moved to -APPROVE Resolution 2026-02 Approving a
Revocable Right of Access Agreement with Rocky Mountain Power for a Public Art Project. The
motion was seconded by Council Member Hyland. Vote on Motion: Council Member Holton-Yes;
Council Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Birrell-Yes; Mayor
Bennion-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

        6. 7    Consideration of Resolution 2026-03 Amending a Development Agreement for
                Canyon Cove Subdivision. (This Resolution will Approve an Amendment to the
                Development Agreement for the Cottonwood Canyon Cove Subdivision that was
                Approved under Resolution 2023-24. The purpose o(the Amendment is to Modifv
                the Exhibit D "Final Park Plan").

Mayor Bennion reported that the above item was discussed during the Work Session. She appreciated
the citizen involvement on the item.

MOTION: Council Member Birrell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-03 Amending a
Development Agreement for Canyon Cove Subdivision. The motion was seconded by Council
Member Hyland. Vote on Motion: Council Member Holton-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes;
Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Birrell-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion
passed unanimously.

        6.8     Consideration of Resolution 2026-04 Approving an Interlocal Agreement with
                Sandy City for a-Joint Crosswalk Study. (This Resolution will Approve the City's
                Entry into an Interlocal Agreement with Sandy City concerning a Joint Crosswalk
                Study on Creek Road between Union Park Avenue and 3500 East).

Mayor Bennion reported that the above item was discussed during the Work Session.

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-04 Approving an
Interlocal Agreement with Sandy City for a Joint Crosswalk Study. The motion was seconded by
Council Member Holton. Vote on Motion: Council Member Holton-Yes; Council Member Hyland-


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 6, 2026    Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       19
Yes; Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Birrell-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion
passed unanimously.

        6.9     Consideration of Resolution 2026-05 Approving an Interlocal Agreement with
                Salt Lake County for Aerial Imagery. (By this Resolution, the Council will
                Approve the City's Entry into an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement whereunder
                Salt Lake County will provide Certain Aerial Imagery for use by various City
                Departments).

Mayor Bemlion reported that the above item was discussed during the Work Session.

MOTION: Council Member Birrell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-05 Approving an
Interlocal Agreement with Salt Lake County for Aeria1 Imagery. The motion was seconded by
Council Member Hyland. Vote on Motion: Council Member Holton-Yes; Council Member Hyland-
Yes; Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Birrell-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion
passed unanimously.

        6.10    Consideration of Resolution 2026-06 Approving an Appointment to the Arts
                Council. (This Resolution will Approve and Ratifv the Manager 's Appointment of
                Lucas Manning to the City's Arts Council).

Mayor Bennion reported that the above item was discussed during the Work Session.

MOTION: Council Member Newell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-06 Approving an
Appointment to the Art~Council. The motion was seconded by Council Member Birrell. Vote on
Motion: Council Member Holton-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member Newell-Yes;
Council Member Birrell-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

7.0     CONSENT CALENDAR

        7.1     Approval of the Minutes for the City Council Work Session and Business
                Meetings of December 16, 2025.

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to APPROVE the Consent Calendar. The motion was
seconded by Council Member Newell. The motion passed with the unanimous consent ofthe Council.

8.0     ADJOURN

MOTION: Council Member Holton moved to ADJOURN. The motion was seconded by Council
Member Hyland. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.

The City Council Business Meeting adjourned at 7:49 p.m.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 6, 2026   Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       20
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the
Cottonwood Heights City Coun888888888cil Work Session and City Council Business Meetings
held on Tuesday, January 6, 2026.


TerL Forbes
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: ______ _ _ __




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 6, 2026   Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       21
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL PRE-LEGISLATIVE
BREAKFAST HELD FRIDAY, JANUARY 9, 2026, AT 7:30 AM IN THE COTTONWOOD
HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL
BOULEVARD, COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Present:                 Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion, Council Member Matt Holton, Council Member
                         Ellen Binell, Council Member Suzanne Hyland, Council Member Shawn
                         Newell

Staff Present:           City Attorney, Shane Topham; Finance Director, Scott Jurges; Police Chief,
                         Robby Russo; Records, Culture, and Human Resources Director, Barbara
                         Higgins; Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; Public
                         Works Director and City Engineer, Matt Shipp; Assistant Police Chief, Chris
                         McHugh

Legislators:             Senator Kirk Cullimore, Representative John Arthur

Also Present:            Greg Cmtis, Brian Allen

1.0     INTRODUCTIONS

Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion called the meeting to order at 7:30 AM and thanked Utah State Senator
Kirk Cullimore and Representative John Arthur for taking the time to be at the meeting. Those present
introduced themselves.

Senator Cullimore represents Senate District 19, which includes a portion of Cottonwood Heights.
He is entering his eighth legislative session and always strives to do all he can at the State level to
help the East Bench cities.

Representative Author represents House District 41, which includes Cottonwood Heights and nearby
cities. He is honored to represent the community where he grew up.

2.0     Discussion of Upcoming              Legislative     Session   Priorities   with   Local   Elected
        Representatives.

Lobbyist Brian Allen remarked that there is a healthy, natural tension between state and local
governments. He works very hard to protect the City's interests and its ability to make decisions, and
that can sometimes be at odds with policies being pushed by the legislature. His role is to educate
and advocate for the City. He was in the legislature in the 1990s and began lobbying a few years after
his tenn ended. He has represented Cottonwood Heights since it incorporated. The upcoming session
will include bills related to housing policy that will affect local governments. He will ensure that the
Council is educated on that legislation and is always available to answer questions.

Greg Curtis stated that Mr. Allen works on policy, and they communicate frequently during the
legislative session. Mr. Curtis' focus is on obtaining funding for the City, including recently securing
approximately $180,000 in traffic control funding out of a total of $500,000 shared between

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 6, 9026           Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                        1
Cottonwood Heights, Sandy, and Salt Lake County. Budgets are typically set by the House and
Senate majority leadership, so he primarily works with those members.

Council Member Birrell stated that the Utah Department of Transportation ("UDOT") had widened
the shoulder on the west side of Wasatch Boulevard from Bengal Boulevard to the mouth of Little
Cottonwood Canyon, which requires more traffic officer hours on snow mornings and puts more
pressure on City police without additional funding. People waiting to get into the canyon no longer
block local traffic, but no additional funding was required to cover the salaries of the officers required
to police the area on snow days.

Mayor Bennion shared that City Manager, Jared Gerber, was recovering from surgery and unable to
attend, but he prepared a handout with information on Cottonwood Heights and its legislative
priorities.

Cottonwood Heights is a member of the Utah League of Cities and Towns ("ULCT"), which
emphasizes the importance oflocal control. City residents are well-educated and typically have high
incomes. The City's General Plan update is 10 years overdue, but it is in process and should be
completed in 2026.

Work on the new Town Center began with a ballot initiative in 2025 where approximately 52% of
residents voted in support of the project. The development team of Onyx and Thrive, which
developed the Holladay town center, was chosen to lead the project. Because the City will retain
ownership of the property and lease it to the developer, the process is complicated and proceeds
slowly. Additionally, existing business leases must be allowed to expire prior to construction.

City Attorney, Shane Topham, reported that because citizens voted to tax themselves to acquire the
property, the City Council believed it was appropriate that the property remain a community asset.
This type of development typically lasts approximately 40 years. As Mayor Bennion mentioned, the
City inherited two long-term ground leases that are delaying construction.

Council Member Holton stated that Representative Jill Koford has proposed a property tax adjustment
that would shift the tax burden from homeowners to businesses, and the House majority is in support
of the proposal. He asked if the Senate has a position on the legislation, which would negatively
impact cities like Cottonwood Heights and Bluffdale that do not have as much commercial
development as other cities and may be forced to enact tax increases to retain that revenue. He
reported that multiple property tax proposals will be considered during the session, including
increasing the residential exemption.

Senator Cullimore stated that he has concerns about the proposals. It sounds nice to increase the
residential exemption, but that would just shift the revenue source because commercial property costs
are passed on to consumers, so households will pay the taxes regardless. The legislature explored the
issue during COVID when property taxes spiked, and commercial values declined. He believes the
legislature will have to be negotiated, but drastic changes do not make sense. The caucus did not
express a lot of interest in greatly increasing the residential exemption due to concerns similar to those
expressed by Council Member Holton.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 6, 9026         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                        2
Mr. Curtis stated that the proposal would require a constitutional amendment, so it would go to a vote.
However, most people would believe it was a reduction when in reality it would just be a shift.
Because residential makes up so much of the tax base, he believes shifting the responsibility to
commercial properties would have a detrimental effect. Older retail properties like strip malls that
are already barely hanging on will go vacant.

Senator Cullimore stated that another issue is property tax creep. Truth in Taxation has largely done
as intended, but counties are now reclassifying what "new growth" means. In some counties, adding
an awning onto an existing home is considered new growth that raises everyone's tax. There may be
an attempt to address that issue during the session as well.

Mayor Bennion reported that short-tenn rentals are a priority in Cottonwood Heights because it is at
the base of the canyons. Council Member Hyland st~ted that the City is a residential suburban
gateway. Cottonwood Heights has 32,437 residents, which is 2.75% of the population of Salt Lake
County, yet the canyons receive nine million annual visitors. Cottonwood Heights does not want to
become a resort community or for 20% of its houses to be short-term rentals, and there are currently
500 illegal short-tenn rentals in the City. Compliance has been very tricky, and local control is
necessary. The Council wants to take advantage of a visitor economy, but it cannot be allowed to
overrun the City.

The City Council recently heard a request to help run a shuttle program to Bonanza Flat, but
Cottonwood Heights is a tiny city, and the entire county comes to the canyons. The City needs help.
Utahns are not the only people who go to the canyons; she frequently hears foreign languages on the
ski lifts. Cottonwood Heights is bearing an increasing burden that has not been addressed.

Council Member Hylaru1 requested that Cottonwood Heights be recognized and discussed as a
gateway city. The legislature has done a lot to help rural gateway cities that have a disproportionate
burden. Cottonwood Heights feels that same burden, but it is not recognized because of the large
metro area surrounding it. She asked for help with short-term rental policy changes that allow the
City to h-etter enforce its regulations.

Council Member Holton reported that a short-term rental preemption bill has been filed that would
prevent municipalities from regulating the operation of sho1i-term rentals. Arizona passed a law that
he believes is a good compromise, and he is working with the bill's sponsor to hopefully move them
toward that middle ground. The Arizona law prevents cities from prohibiting short-tenn rentals but
allows them to require a business license and provides a mechanism for enforcement of nuisance
ordinances through a "three strikes" rule. He asked that the legislature consider how to get
municipalities and online platforms to meet in the middle.

In response to a question from Senator Cullimore, Council Member Holton stated that the "not-well"
rule was amended to make enforcement easier. Some groups are now pushing for full preemption.
There is still work to be done.

Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung, remarked that short-tenn rentals
impact housing availability. Without guardrails, investors will begin purchasing properties solely to
use as short-tenn rentals, which pushes people who live and work in the city out of the community.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 6, 9026       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                        3
That is especially an issue in areas like Cottonwood Heights because of its proximity to the canyons.
Cottonwood Heights needs to retain housing stock for people who live in the City pennanently, not
just for tourists, and it needs to retain the ability to regulate the percentage or total number of short-
te1m rentals. Saint George and Washington City have had issues with entire developments being
turned into resort communities.

Mayor Bennion asked Mr. Spung to speak about the Land Use, Development, and Management Act
("LUDMA"). Mr. Spung stated that LUDMA was initially adopted in 2005 and has been continually
updated since that time. In 2025, over 300 bills proposed changes to LUDMA. He believes the
changes are made with good intentions, but it takes time to incorporate and implement them, and city
planners are unable to keep up. Cities are invested in ensuring that residents are engaged in the public
process, and the State has certain noticing requirements for code amendments. It takes time to enact
changes to City Code, and continually having to do that just to keep up with State changes can be
overwhelming.

Mr. Spung noted that it is difficult to navigate LUDMA because topics are scattered across different
areas. It was recently moved to Chapter 20, which helped restructure some of the content, but a lot
of information in other chapters also affects municipal land use and zoning. For example, the Health
and Human Services chapter regulates businesses like home gaycare facilities. It is bard to keep track
of all the different chapters and sections that must be reviewed to know how to regulate and what
changes must be made to City code. It is also a moving target, and a staff with two or three planners
cannot keep up with the ban-age of changes.

Mayor Bennion indicat~_d that Cottonwood Heights has not raised property taxes since 2018. She
asked Finance Director,_S_cott Jurges to provide an overview of the City's financial status. Mr. Jurges
reported that the City's first property tax year was 2006. The only increase occun-ed in fiscal year
2019 and generated approximately $980,000 in new revenue. The average increase from new growth
is approximately $51,000 annually on a $25 million budget.

Property~taxes account for approximately one-third of the City's revenues, and it is difficult to cover
increased costs when such a large portion of the revenue remains flat. Sales taxes also account for
one-third of revenues. Those revenues increased in 2018 and 2019 but have been flat for the past
three years. The proposed residential exemption increase would have minimal impact on a
commercialized city like South Salt Lake City but would discourage businesses from opening in
bedroom communities like Cottonwood Heights.

Mr. Spung stated that cities' commercial footprints are getting smaller nationwide. Abandoned
shopping centers are being converted into residential developments. The Town Center property is an
old strip mall and commercial center. It will still retain some commercial and office space, but will
also incorporate residential. He believes it is important for the legislature to consider that shift.

Mr. Jurges reported that municipalities are allowed to charge a 6% franchise tax on utility bills. As
homes have become more energy efficient and electric and gas consumption has declined, the City's
revenues have decreased. A 25% reduction in power usage results in a 25% revenue reduction, and
the only way the City can make up the difference is if the utility company increases its rates by 33%.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 6, 9026         Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                        4
Cable television taxes have declined steadily as residents tum to streaming services. If the City was
able to charge a franchise tax on the internet, that would help recoup some lost revenue.

Representative Arthur left the meeting at 8:20 a.m. He thanked the City Council for the infonnation
and encouraged them to contact him via telephone or email so they could schedule a time to discuss
the issues in more detail.

Mayor Bennion reported that Cottonwood Heights has been depleting its reserve funds to cover
operations and maintenance costs for seven years. Efforts have been made to reduce expenses at that
time. However, the City is now in a position that it must either increase revenues or decrease expenses
or it will not have enough reserve funds to match grants or be prepared for a true emergency.

Council Member Hyland noted that Senator Cullimore co-sponsored the bill requiring all county
islands to be annexed into a city. Cottonwood Heights has had three annexations since that time, and
all that three have involved different processes with drastically different interpretations. Another rule
change occuned in 2025 while the City was working on an annexation south of Creek Road, which
then had to be abandoned. Annexation is cunently focused on growth cities, and changes are only
made from that perspective.

Another challenge is revenue. An unincorporated area of Salt Lake County was annexed into the City
in July 2025, but revenue from the area will not be paid to the City until November 2026. The City
must provide services to those residents for almost 18 months without revenue. She requested that
the annexation process be streamlined. If cities are provided with a checklist of the required steps, it
would be easier for the city and much less frustrating for citizens.

Salt Lake County and Governor Cox's office provide different infonnation based on different staff
members' interpretations of the law. A clearly defined checklist would ensure that everyone is on the
same page.

In response to a question, Council Member Hyland stated that her understanding is that the focus is
on developers who want to develop unincorporated land and force it into a city. Her request is that
the legislature consider how annexation affects cities in Salt Lake County. A $10,000 metes-and-
bounds survey is also required each time an unincorporated area is annexed, which is a high cost for
homes that will not generate revenue for 18 months due to how property taxes are structured. Senator
Cullimore reported that one reason for the lag is that many areas are under service contracts that do
not expire at annexation. For example, annexed areas near his home are still serviced by Salt Lake
County for a period of time after they are annexed into Sandy. Council Member Holton remarked
that Salt Lake County could better streamline the administrative process.

Mr. Curtis stated that in many negotiations, the biggest adversaries can be other cities with competing
approaches. Cottonwood Heights is not the same as Herriman, which is expanding out rather than
annexing unincorporated islands. Developers may shop between cities to determine where they will
get the best deal to develop their land. Infill islands can be complicated because they involve
individual homeowners. He owns property that was annexed into Sandy from Salt Lake County,
which has lower property taxes but multiple special service district fees that actually make it
significantly more expensive to live there.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 6, 9026         Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                        5
Council Member Hyland clarified that she is grateful for the bill as it helps get rid of the
unincorporated islands. However, the process is difficult and citizens are not empowered to choose
the city they want to live in.

Senator Cullimore stated that there is a checklist for new annexations, and he was not knowledgeable
in the difference for infill annexations.

Public Works Director, Matt Shipp, stated that there are two different initiatives, one for the city and
one for residents. Each has similar steps with some nuances. The initial process involves the
municipality and the administrative and legislative branches of the county. Each entity must sign off
on the annexation, and each entity interprets the law differently. It then goes to the state level. The
last City annexation went back and forth four times. He believes the problem is not the bill, but its
interpretation.

Mayor Bemlion asked City Attorney, Shane Toifuam, to speak to an issue with prosecutorial services
and indicated that they were working with Seriator Pitcher about the issue because it also impacts
Holladay.

Mr. Topham reported that Cottonwood Heights does not employ a prosecutor. Those services are
obtained through an interlocal agreement with Holladay for Justice Court services that include the
judge, prosecutor, and indigent defense services. It is the City's position that this is a smart and
efficient use of public monies. A person who was convicted in that court sued the City on the grounds
that it does not have the right to use a contract prosector. The case went to the Utah Supreme Court
but was subsequently withdrawn on a procedural issue. However, the plaintiffs counsel indicated
that he intends to revisit the legal question of whether a contract prosecutor can be used. Mr. Topham
drafted a bill to address the issue via statute that will be filed by Senator Pitcher. The legislation
would match the language available to county attorneys and give a city attorney the right to deputize
any other_ attorney, whether a public prosecutor or private attorney, to perform certain services,
including prosecutorial services.

Police Chief, Robby Russo spoke on Representative Wilcox's School Guardian Program.
Cottonwood Heights supports the program and would very much like to move it forward, but no one
is willing to pay for it. Canyons School Distiict approved the model he presented to shift the liability
and training to his department, but no one wants to take ownership of funding it. He expects
Representative Wilcox to express frustration that the program has not been implemented statewide,
but even the existing guardians are not receiving training.

Chief Russo also asked for assistance on a clarification for Representative Paulson's revenge porn
statute. Senator Cullimore asked if he had approached the Utah Statewide Association of Prosecutors
& Public Attorneys regarding the matter. He believes it was simply an oversight, and he is certain
they can find a sponsor once the language is drafted.

Mayor Bennion thanked Senator Cullimore for attending.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 6, 9026        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                        6
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the
Cottonwood Heights City Council Pre-Legislative Breakfast Meeting held on Friday January 9,
2026.


TeY"L Forbes
Teti Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 6, 9026   Approved: _ __ _ _ _

                                                        8
     Cottonwood Heights
      Cuy brru"m rhe mllJ-OIIJ




     Appendix 3

  STAFF REPORT

Flash Vote Discussion

    Jared Gerber
Meeting Requested:              Business Meeting D       Work Session ~      Other D
Public Hearing Needed?          Yes D No ~ Undetermined D
                                Denied □ Approved IZI CoA'~inued D
CM Approval or Denial
                                CM Signature: - -~_LJ__

Background
The City Manager will lead a short d iscussion on lhe results of the la lest survey as well as the remailing topics thal were
decided on by the City Council in previous meetings. Below is a link to the resu lts for the latest survey.



ht tps ://www.flashvote.com/cot tonwood-hei ghts-ut/surveys/spending-priorities-0 1-26




Future topics we discussed for the remaining surveys include:

    I . General Plan

    2. Short-tenn Rentals

    3. Intersection Safety
              ( If\      I


    Cottonwood Heights
    Cny bm1-'t'm tlN r,mJO'"




    Appendix 4

 STAFF REPORT
General Plan Update

    Jim Spung
                                                                                                        ~                1.J;,.
                                                                                                            ~~o~~ood             Heights
                                                                                                             C17 ~ , ..wn tlv r•ny,,,u




                                Business Meeting D
Public Hearing Needed?          Yes D No IX! Undetermined D
 M Approval or Denial           Denied D Approved QI - ~l'.),t inued D
                                CM Signature: - -~            j;(___
UPDATE
After the January 20, 2026, joint work session, we are in a strong position to continue refining the plan and preparing for
meaningful public engagement. Staff will coordinate closely with the consultant to ensure a dear path toward adoption,
and we will keep the Council updated as we move forward. Below are key updates and next steps:
    1. Feedback lnteg.r ation. The input from both the City Council and Planning Commission will help further refine t he
       draft vis,ion statements, goals, and strategies for each plan element. City staff will collaborate with our lead
       project consultant to incorporate this feedback and define the next steps.
    2.   Modif,ied Contract and Budg,et. City staff will work with Landmark Design to create a modified contract and
         budget to ensure the project timeline and deliverables reflect the next phase of work. This will also include a
         roadmap to adoption, outlining clear milestones for moving forward.
    3 . Subcommittee Deliverables and Public Engagement. Staff and the consultant wi'II refine the subcommittee
         del,iverables, synthesizing them into a format understandable for the public Staff and the consultant will
         prepare a public engagement strategy for the Council for review. This plan will likely include online interactive
         engagement; an in-person open house; social media campaigns; and newsletter artides to gather broad
         community input.
    4. Public Feedback and Draft Plan Update:
       After th,e public engagement phase, staff and the consultant will work towards an updated draft plan. This
       refined p1lan will be reviewed by the Planning Commission and the City Council for further review and
       consideration.
    5. Ongoing Communication and Updates. Once staff and the consultant have developed a dear roadmap, we will
       present next steps to the Council, ensuring alignment and buy-in on the scope, t iming, and content before
       proceeding.

RECOMMENDATION
Discussion item only.

ATTACHMENTS
None.
        Cottonwood Heights
         Cuy btlll'«II the r1IIIJOIII




        Appendix 5

     STAFF REPORT
Blue Sky Program Discussion

Councilmember Shawn Newell
Meeting Requested:        Business Meeting D   Work Session D   Other □
Public Hearing Needed?    Yes D No D Undetermined D
                          Denied D   Approved D Continued D
CM Approval or Denial
                          CM Signature:_
                                               ~
                                               ~ -

Councilmember Shawn Newell will lead a discussion on the Blue Sky Program.
  Cottonwood Heights
  C,ry bnw~m 1/~ m11)Y11U




  Appendix 6

STAFF REPORT
URC Discussion
Mayor Bennion
                                                                          ~              1i:,,
                                                                              ( $~!n"~ood       Heights
                                                                                G I] N,"w" 1k Nn]",u




Meeting Requested:        Business Meeting □   Work Session □   Other □
Public Hearing Needed?    Yes D No D Undetermined D
                          Denied □   Approved □ Continued □
CM Approval or Denial
                          CM Signature:_
                                               ~~ P--

Mayor Bennion will lead a discussion on URC.
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                  RESOLUTION NO. 2019-66


                      A RESOLUTION AMENDING AND RESTA TING THE
                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS SUSTAINABLE ENERGY POLICY

        WHEREAS, effective 8 January 2019, the governing body (the "Council") of the city of
Cottonwood Heights (the "City") enacted its Resolution 20 I 9-03 adopting a sustainable energy
policy for the City (the "Policy"); and

       WHEREAS, the Council now desires to, and does, amend and restate the Policy as
follows:

       WHEREAS, Cottonwood Heights is a city of approximately 34,000 residents located in
the central Eastern portion of Salt Lake County, an urbanized population center totaling
approximately 1.15 Million residents; and

        WHEREAS, the City's governing body desires to take actions which promote the health,
safety and welfare of the City's residents; and

         WHEREAS, the Council also desires to enhance the economic well-being of the City and
its residents though prndent management of the City's financial resources; and

        WHEREAS, the urbanization and geography of Salt Lake County result in periods of poor
air quality and other environmental concerns due in part to the use of fossil fuels; and

        WHEREAS, the energy sources utilized by and within the City therefore can impact public
health, safety and welfare; and

        WHEREAS, recent advances in the field of energy technology have made renewable
energy more economically viable than in the past and, in some cases, more cost-effective than
traditional energy sources; and

        WHEREAS, the City is a principal gateway to Utah's world-famous mountain recreation
areas, with the ski industry being an economic contributor to the City and one which relies on
preservation of the environment and protection of natural resources; and

       WHEREAS, the City and its residents have shown an interest in environmental
stewardship through various initiatives and activities surrounding growth and development; and

        WHEREAS, to that end, since its incorporation in January 2005 the City has undertaken
various actions to enhance efficiencies in the City's use of energy, including utilizing LED lights
in all of the City's semaphores, converting as many of the City's streetlights as possible to LED
lights, and constructing the City's city hall building to be "solar ready" and to meet LEED-
equivalent energy efficiency standards, all of which actions have served to reduce harmful
emissions and promote energy efficiency in the City; and
        WHEREAS, the Council believes that determining and undertaking a further suite of
actions designed to reduce fossil fuel dependence while appropriately balancing financial
stewardship and promoting economic growth is an important component of safeguarding public
health, safety and welfare; and

        WHEREAS, the Council met in regular session on 15 October 2019 to, among other
things, consider establishing renewable energy goals for the City;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights that the City shall work collaboratively with Rocky Mountain Power to continue to seek
mutually beneficial, financially feasible methods to increase energy efficiency and the utilization
by and within the City of renewable energy (meaning non-fossil fuel sources such as electricity
derived from wind, solar, hydroelectricity, geothermal sources and other means that become
available and do not add greenhouse gases to the atmosphere) while lowering dependence on non-
renewable sources of energy; and be it

        FURTHER RESOLVED that the City may work collaboratively with neighboring cities
and other public and private partners to explore sustainable energy sources, best practices for
shifting towards renewable energy, and otherwise determining areas of possible improvement
regarding energy efficiency and use of renewable energy in all aspects of the City's municipal
operations; and be it

       FURTHER RESOLVED that the City encourages businesses and contractors within the
City to pursue energy efficiency and to use renewable energy, including in connection with
development of roads and buildings in the City; and be it

       FURTHER RESOLVED that the City shall develop a plan to pursue a goal of achieving
a 100% renewable electricity supply for the City's operations by 2022 and within the City by 2030
without compromising the three principles of affordability, reliability and environmental
stewardship; and be it

        FURTHER RESOLVED that such plan shall incorporate an analysis of budgetary and
fiscal impacts, as well as interim milestones and annual progress reports.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2019-66, shall take effect immediately upon passage as
provided herein.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 15th day of October 2019.


ATTEST:                                      COTT




                                                2
                                   VOTING:

                                   Michael J. Peterson
                                   Michael L. Shelton
                                   J. Scott Bracken
                                   Tali C. Bruce
                                   Christine Watson Mikell


DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 15th day of October 2019.

RECORDED this     t~ day of October 2019.




                                       3
            Cottonwood Heights
             Cuy b,111ym rl" r,111Jo111




            Appendix 7

         STAFF REPORT
Budget and Citizen Committee Update
            Jared Gerber
Meeting Requested:         Business Meeting D   Work Session D     Other D
Public Hearing Needed?     Yes D No D Undetermined D
                           Denied D   Approved D Continued D
CM Approval or Denial
                           CMSignature:_        ~P--
Jared Gerber will provide a Budget and Citizen Committee Update.
    Cottonwood Heights
    Ciry bnu'fm the l'llfl)YIIIJ




   Appendix 8

STAFF REPORT
Old Mill Discussion
    Jim Spung
Public Hearing Needed?         Yes D No IX! Undetermined D
                               Deni:d D Approve~               fo/ued D
                               CM Signature: /__-~

BACKGROUND
The Planning Commission held a public hearing on the proposed demolition of the Cottonwood Paper Mill, located at
6851 S. Big Cottonwood Canyon Road, on January 21, 2026. The applicant seeks approval for demolition, citing the
building's unsafe structural conditions and designation as an "attractive nuisance." The applicant's case for demolition is
supported by multiple independent engineering re:ports, which confirm that the structure is severely compromised,
lacking a foundation, and prone to collapse due to its deteriorating unreinforced masonry. Efforts to r ehabilitate the
building have been found either infeasible or cost-prohibitive.

Under Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code Chapter 15.15: Demolition, the applicant must obtain a "Certificate of
Appropriateness" from the City Council and approval of a Conditional Use Permit from the Pl anning Commission before
demolishing or modifying historic structures, to ensure alignment with preservation goals. The Planning Commission is
tasked with reviewing the Conditional Use Permit, while the issuance of a Certificate of Appropr,i ateness r ests with the
City Council.

During the Planning Commission meeting, several public comments were received, with concerns over the loss of a
historic site. The mitigation measures pro1
                                          posed by the applicant included preserving elements of the Cottonwood Paper
Mill at the new Town Center, installing a commemorative plaque, creating a digital history of the mill, and following
state and local regulations for environmentally responsible deconstruction.

Looking forward, the process will involve continuing review of the Conditional Use Permit application, which must be
pending before the Planning Commission for at least one year from January 2026. City staff recommend an independent
third-party engineering review be completed to provide a comprehensive assessment of the structure's integrity. This
review, together with other material submitted by the applicant, will help inform future decisions by both the Planning
Commission and City Council. City staff will continue to provide updates and briefings to the Planning Commission and
City Council regarding the status and progress of the Conditional Use Permit review, as deemed necessary.

RECOMMENDATION
Discussion item only.

ATTACHMENTS
None.
        (   ~        I


  Cottonwood
  Ciry   th~
    b(l11Ym
             Heights
                rnll)OIII




  Appendix 9

STAFF REPORT
 Action Items
 Shane Topham
Tiffan Janzen

From:                    Shane Topham <WST@tophamlegal.com>
Sent:                    Tuesday, January 27, 2026 6:26 PM
To:                      Jared Gerber; Tiffany Janzen
Subject:                 [EXT:]Legislation for February 3rd City Council Business Meeting
Attachments:             WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2026-10 Approving Independent Contractor Agreement with Perkins
                         Eng ineering.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Independent Contractor Agreement with Perkins Engineering (Highland
                         Drive Roadway Reconstruction) (1.27.26).pdf; Highland Dr Perkins Proposal.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolut ion
                         2026-11 Ratifying Amended Council Committee Assignments.pdf; Council Board Assignments January 2026.pdf



The following items of legislation scheduled for consideration at the city council's February 3rd business
meeting are attached for your review and comment:

    1. Resolution 2026-10. By this resolution the council will approve the city's entry into an
       independent contractor agreement whereunder Perkins Engineering, Inc. will provide engineering
       and related services in connection with the city's planned reconstruction of Highland Drive
       between Bengal Blvd. and Blackstone Road under City's project no. 004.26 for a not-to-exceed
       price of $61,252.37. A copy of the proposed agreement also is attached, along with a copy of the
       provider's proposal that will be attached as an exhibit to the agreement.

    2. Resolution 2026-11 . This resolution will approve an amended list of the council's "outside" and
       "inside" committee and board assignments to incorporate changes made to the list approved
       under Resolution 2026-08. A copy of the amended list also is attached .

Please contact me as soon as possible if you have any questions or concerns regarding the attachments.

Best regards-

Shane

WM. SHANE TOPHAM I Attorney I TOPHAM LEGAL
4930 Fairview Drive, Holladay, UT 84117
tel+801.808.6325 I Bio

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: The content of this e-mail is confidential and proprietary and may be attorney-client
privileged. If you are not the intended recipient, please destroy it and notify: wst@tophamlegal.com.



EXTERNAL ATTACHMENT: Only Open if you trust this sender.




                                                                1
                        '-&.~      .LI . ~
                                      ( 1) I'\, I

                            Cottonwood Heights
                            City bm,-em the m 11:ro111




          CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING

                         Attachment 1
                      Resolution 2026-10
 By this resolution the council will approve the city's entry into
    an independent contractor agreement whereunder Perkins
 Engineering, Inc. will provide engineering and related services
in connection with the city's planned reconstruction of Highland
 Drive between Bengal Blvd. and Blackstone Road under City's
                        project no. 004.26.
                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                    RESOLUTION NO. 2026-10

                A RESOLUTION APPROVING AN AGREEMENT WITH PERKINS
                    ENGINEERING, INC. FOR ENGINEERING SERVICES

        WHEREAS, the city council (the "Councif') of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the
"City") met in regular session on 3 February 2026 to consider, among other things, approving an
independent contractor agreement (the "Agreement") with Perkins Engineering, Inc. ("Provider")
whereunder Provider would provide engineering and related services in connection with City's
planned reconstruction of Highland Drive between Bengal Blvd. and Blackstone Road under
City's project no. 004.26 as described in the Agreement; and

       WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed the form of the Agreement, a photocopy of which
is annexed hereto; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to approve the City's entry into
the Agreement as proposed~

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Cottonwood Heights city council that
the attached Agreement is hereby approved, and that the City's mayor and recorder are authorized
and directed to execute and deliver the Agreement on behalf of the City.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2026- IO, shaU take effect immediately upon passage.

       PASSED AND APPROVED effe•ctive 3 February 2026.


ATTEST:                                         COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


B y : - - - -- - - - - -- -                    By: - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - -
  Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                         Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor

                                               VOTING:

                                               Gay Lynn Bennion                Yea_Nay_
                                               Matt Holton                     Yea_Nay_
                                               Suzanne Hyland                  Yea_Nay_
                                               Shawn E. Newell                 Yea_Nay_
                                               Ellen Birrell                   Yea_Nay_

       DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 3rd day of February 2026.

       RECORDED this_ day of February 2026.
                       Independent Contractor Agreement
        THIS INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") is made
effective 3 February 2026 by COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, a Utah municipality whose address
is 2277 East Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121 ("City"), and by PERKINS
ENGINEERING, INC. a Utah corporation whose address is 2526 Starling Drive, Salt Lake
City, UT 84 l 2 l ("Contractor"). In this Agreement, City and Contractor are each a "party" and
collectively are the "parties."



       A.      City desires to obtain from a qualified, licensed engineering or engineering firm
expert engineering and related services concerning the proposed reconstruction of Highland
Drive between Bengal Blvd. and Blackstone Road under City's project no. 004.26 (the
"Project" ), and to perform related services, all in accordance with applicable standards and
attached Contractor's proposal that is attached hereto as Exhibit "A."

       B.      Contractor regularly provides such services and on or about 18 December 2025
submitted a proposal to City in response to a request for proposals (the "RFP") previously issued
by City concerning the services desired by City. A copy of Contractor's proposal (the
"Proposal") is attached hereto as Exhibit "A."

       C.       After reviewing the Proposal City has determined to retain Contractor to provide
the subject services.

        D.     By this Agreement, City desires to retain Contractor, and Contractor desires to be
retained by City, to perform the subject services on the tenns and conditions specified herein.

        E.     City and Contractor intend to identify herein the services to be performed for City
by Contractor, the basis of compensation for such services, and to otherwise set forth their entire
agreement concerning the subject services. Consequently, this Agreement shall supercede any
and all prior or contemporaneous negotiations and/or agreements, oral and/or written, between
the parties concerning the services to be provided under this Agreement.

                                      AGREEMENT:

        NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, the mutual covenants and
undertakings of the parties hereto, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and
sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows:

        Section l.      Scope of Services. Contractor shall provide the services (collectively, the
"Services" ) to City that are described in the RFP, the Proposal, and below, as well as all ancillary
and associated services as may be reasonably necessary or advisable to complement and
complete the Services, all as contemplated by all applicable legal requirements and best
practices. Subject to the foregoing, the Services shall include the following:

               (a)    Phases. The Services shall be divided into the phases, steps and work
described in the Proposal.
               (b)      Public Meetings. Contractor shall attend such public meetings concerning
the Services as City reasonably may direct. City shall schedule and advertise all public meetings
or hearings. City may request Contractor to make a presentation concerning the Services and the
Project at one or more public meetings to receive public input and direction from City. All
reasonable and final adjustments to the resulting Project requested by City will be made by
Contractor prior to its final adoption/approval by City.

               (c)     Schedule. It is anticipated that the Project will be completed and the
Services will be fully rendered within approximately four months after the effective date of this
Agreement, which deadline is anticipated to be approximately 1 November 2026. Contractor
shall comply with such performance schedule for the component Services as City reasonably
may direct upon reasonable prior notice to Contractor.

              (d)      Deliverables. Contractor shall provide all deliverables identified in the
Proposal, as well as such other docwnentation and deliverables as City reasonably may request.

                (e)    Other Services. Contractor shall perform all other services and work as
specified in the Proposal, or as may be mutually agreed to by the parties in writing.

If Contractor believes that any of the aforementioned Services merit payment of any additional
fee beyond the Fee (defined below), then Contractor shall so inform City in advance before
undertaking any of such additional services, describing the need for such additional services and
the not-to-exceed cost of providing them. If City desires Contractor to proceed with any such
additional services, City shall so infonn Contractor in writing. Contractor may not perfonn any
additional services, or seek compensation therefor, without City's prior written consent.

        Section 2.      Performance of Services. Except as otherwise provided in this
Agreement, Contractor shall furnish all supervision, personnel, labor, materials, supplies and
shall obtain all licenses and permits required for performance of the Services. The Services shall
be performed at Contractor's offices and other mutually-agreeable places.

       Section 3.     Compensation; Invoices; Remittance. City shall compensate Contractor
for the Services satisfactorily performed at the rates specified in the Proposal, up to the
maximum amount of $61,252.37 (the "Fee") plus any additional amount due under the last
paragraph of Section 1, above.

               (a)    Invoices. Contractor shall invoice City for the Services performed during
each calendar month at the end of that month or as soon as practical thereafter. All invoices
submitted to City shall contain references to this Agreement. Invoices shall detail the Services
performed and shall contain copies of all supporting documents or proof of any expenditures on
behalf of City, and otherwise shall be in sync with the stage of completion of the Services
outlined in the Proposal. Invoices for any approved additional services also shall specify the
person(s) performing such services, the hours worked, the applicable hourly rate(s),

                (b)      Questioned Charges. Any questions or objections by City concerning
Contractor's charges under an invoice for the any services shall be submitted within 30 days
after City's receipt of the subject invoice.



                                               -2-
                (c)     Remittances. Subject to subsection 3(b), all invoiced amounts due for
Services performed shall be paid by City within 30 days after City's receipt of the subject
invoice. If payment is not remitted or reasonably questioned to Contractor when due, Contractor
shall be entitled to recover interest thereon at the rate of 10% per annum from and after the date
the remittance is due and payable.

        Section 4.     Change in Level of Services. City shall be freely entitled to modify
(increase or decrease) the level of the Services hereunder by providing at least 15 days' prior
written notice to Contractor of such change, provided that (a) any increase in the level of the
Services shall be subject to Contractor' s reasonable approval, and (b) Contractor's compensation
shall be reasonably modified in connection with any such change.

        Section 5.     Suspension of Services. City shall have the absolute right to terminate the
Services at any time without cost or liability to Contractor as provided in this Agreement. City
also may by written notice direct Contractor to temporarily suspend performance of any or all of
the Services for a specified period of time. If such suspension is not occasioned by the fault or
negligence of Contractor, this Agreement may be modified to compensate Contractor for extra
costs reasonably incurred as a result of said suspension, provided that any claim for adjustment is
supported by appropriate cost documentation and asserted within 20 calendar days after the date
that City issues an order for resumption of the Services. Upon its receipt of any such suspension
notice, Contractor immediately shall (a) discontinue the Services; (b) place no further orders or
subcontracts in connection with the Services; (c) suspend all outstanding orders and subcontracts
in connection with the Services; (d) protect and maintain the existing work and work-product in
connection with the Services; and (e) otherwise mitigate City's costs and liabilities for the
suspended areas of the Services.

       Section 6.     Termination for Convenience. City may terminate this Agreement, or
any part hereof, at any time with or without cause prior to its completion by sending to
Contractor written notice of such tennination. Upon any such termination, City shall pay to
Contractor the full amount due for all Services satisfactorily perfonned by Contractor as of the
date of termination, excluding damages or anticipated profits on work not yet completed or
performed.

        Section 7.      Ownership of Designs and Drawings. All documents (whether printed or
stored on paper or as electronic, magnetic, or digital infom1ation) produced or collected by
Contractor in its performance of the Services (including, without limitation, original drawings,
estimates, specifications, field notes and data) (collectively, the "Documents") are and shall
remain the exclusive property of City. Conditioned only on City's payment to Contractor of the
amounts due hereunder, at the conclusion of the Services or any earlier termination thereof
Contractor shall deliver to City all Docwnents, whether or not complete. Contractor may, at its
expense, reproduce for its own records the Documents so supplied to City. Contractor may not
disclose, sell, use, publish or display any Documents or other information collected or produced
in connection with its performance of this Agreement without City's prior written consent.

        Section 8.    Nondisclosure; Conflict of Interest Contractor shall not divulge to third
parties without City's prior written consent any infonnation obtained from or through City in
connection with the performance of this Agreement. Unless waived by City, Contractor shall
require its employees and subcontractors of any tier to adhere to the same covenant of
nondisclosure. Contractor shall safeguard the confidentiality of any information obtained from or
                                               -3-
through City in connection with the performance of this Agreement to the same extent as
Contractor safeguards the confidentiality of its own proprietary or confidential information.
Contractor and its subcontractors shall not act as a Contractor in any matters adverse to City.

       Section 9.      Compliance with Laws. Contractor shall at all times comply with all
applicable federal, state and local laws, statutes, mies, regulations, and ordinances, including,
without limitation, those governing wages, hours, desegregation, employment discrimination,
workers ' compensation, employer's liability and safety. Contractor also shall comply with all
applicable equal opportunity laws and regulations.

        Section 10.    Patent and Copyright If Contractor's employees, officers, agents,
subcontractors of any tier, or anyone of a like nature in the performance of the Services or as a
result of performing the Services develop any trade secret, prepare any copyrighted material,
make any improvement, originate any invention, or develop any process or the like (collectively,
an "Innovation"), (a) such Innovation shall be the property of Contractor, but (b) Contractor shall
grant or cause to be used for the benefit of City (or for City's own internal use) the Innovation
for so long as City reasonably desires.

         Section 11. Independent Contractor Status. Contractor shall perform the Services as
an independent contractor, and all persons employed by Contractor in connection herewith shall
be employees or independent contractors of Contractor and not employees of Agency in any
respect.

              (a)    Control. Contractor shall have complete control and discretion over all
personnel providing Services hereunder.

             (b)   Salarv and Wages. Agency shall not have any obligation or liability for
the payment of any salaries, wages or other compensation to personnel providing Services
hereunder.

                (c)    No Emplovment Benefits. All personnel providing Services are and shall
be and remain Contractor's employees, and shall have no right to any Agency pension, civil
service, or any other Agency benefits pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise.

        Section 12.     Assignment Contractor shall not assign this Agreement, or any part
thereof, without City' s prior written consent. Any attempted assignment in violation of this
section shall be void from its inception.

       Section 13.     Subcontracts. Except for those subcontractors which are specified in the
Proposal, Contractor shall not award any work to any subcontractor without City's prior written
approval, which approval will not be given until (a) Contractor submits to City a written
statement (containing such information as City may require) concerning the proposed award to
the subcontractor, and (b) City has reasonably approved such proposed subcontract.

Contractor shall be as fully responsible to City for the acts and omissions of Contractor's
subcontractors, and of persons either directly or indirectly employed by such subcontractors, in
the same manner as Contractor is liable for the acts and omissions of its own employees.
Contractor shall cause appropriate provisions to be inserted in all subcontracts to bind
subcontractors to Contractor by the ten11S and conditions of this Agreement insofar as applicable
                                               -4-
to the work of subcontractors, and to give Contractor the same power to terminate any
subcontract as City may exercise over Contractor under this Agreement. Nothing in this
Agreement, and no course of dealing, shall create any contractual relationship between City and
any of Contractor's subcontractors.

        Section 14.    Accounting and Auditing. Contractor shall keep accurate and complete
records in support of all remuneration paid hereunder. City, or its audit representative, shall have
the right at any reasonable time(s) to examine, audit, and reproduce all records pertaining to
costs, including but not limited to payrolls, employees' time sheets, invoices, and all other
evidence of expenditures for the Services. Such records shall be available for one year after
completion of the Services.

       Section 15.    Non-Exclusive Rights. Nothing in the Agreement is to be constrned as
granting to Contractor the exclusive right to perform any or all of the Services from time to time
required by City.

       Section 16.     Indemnification.

               (a)     Bv Contractor. Contractor shall indemnify and hold hannless City and
City's elected and appointed officers, employees, agents, successors and assigns (collectively,
"City Parties") from and against any and all demands, liabilities, claims, damages, costs
(including attorney fees), actions or proceedings (collectively, "Losses"), arising from or related
to the breach by Contractor of its obligations under this Agreement or Contractor' s intentional or
negligent acts or omissions hereunder, except to the extent that such Losses are caused by, or
arise from, Contractor' s good faith reliance upon the instruction, direction, negligence or
misconduct of any of the City Parties.

                (b)     Bv Citv. City shall indemnify and hold harmless Contractor, its affiliates
and each of their respective directors, officers, employees and subcontractors (collectively,
"Contractor Parties") from any and all of any of Contractor Parties' Losses arising from or
related to the breach by City of its obligations under this Agreement or the negligent acts or
omissions of City hereunder, except to the extent that such Losses are caused by, or arise from
City' s good faith reliance upon the instrnction, direction, negligence or misconduct of any of the
Contractor Parties.

        Section 17.   Insurance. Without limiting any obligations of Contractor, Contractor
shall prior to commencing work secure and thereafter continuously throughout the term of this
Agreement carry insurance in accordance with City's standard insurance requirements set forth
on attached Exhibit "B'' and shall furnish proof thereof satisfactory to City promptly when
requested. Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, the following insurance requirements set
forth on attached Exhibit "B" are modified as follows: (a) Professional Liability coverage under
Section A( l) is modified to $1 Million for each claim and $3 Million aggregate; and (b) the
requirement for Excess Liability coverage under Section A(5) is omitted.

        Section 18.   Professional Responsibility. Contractor shall perform the Services using
equal or higher standards of care, skill and diligence as normally provided by a professional in
the perfom1ance of services similar to those contemplated hereunder. Without limiting any other
remedies available to City, if Contractor fails to comply with such professional standards,


                                                -5-
Contractor shall, upon notice from City, promptly re-perform the sub-standard work at
Contractor's sole cost.

        Section 19.     Examination of Work. All Services shall be subject to examination by
City at any reasonable time(s). City shall have the right to reject any unsatisfactory work. Neither
examination of the Services, lack of the same, acceptance of the Services by City nor payment
therefor shall relieve Contractor from its obligations under this Agreement regarding the quality
and accuracy of the Services.

        Section 20.   Progress. Contractor shall submit periodic written progress reports as
reasonably requested by City. City or its agents or representatives may visit Contractor's offices
at any reasonable time(s) to determine the status of the Services.

        Section 21.    Conflict Resolution. Except as otherwise provided herein, in the event of
a dispute between the parties regarding the Services which is not disposed of by agreement, the
resolution of the dispute shall be decided by City, which shall provide written notice of its
decision to Contractor. Such decision by City shall be final unless Contractor, within 30 calendar
days after such notice of City's decision, provides to City a written notice of protest, stating
clearly and in detail the basis thereof. Contractor shall continue its perfom1ance of this
Agreement during such resolution. If the parties do not agree, then the parties shall resolve the
dispute pursuant to section 22 below.

        Section 22.    Claims and Disputes. Claims, disputes and other issues between the
parties arising out of or related to this Agreement shall be decided by litigation in the Third
Judicial District Court of Salt Lake County, Utah. Unless otherwise terminated pursuant to the
provisions hereof or otherwise agreed in writing, Contractor shall continue to perfom1 the
Services during any such litigation and City shall continue to make payments to Contractor in
accordance with the terms of this Agreement.

        Section 23.    Notice. Any notice required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be
deemed sufficient if given by a communication in writing and shall be deemed to have been
received (a) upon personal delivery or actual receipt thereof, or (b) within three days after such
notice is deposited in the United States Mail, postage prepaid, and certified and addressed to the
parties at their addresses specified above or such substih1te or additional addresses as a party
previously may have provided to the other parties through written notice.

       Section 24.    City's Cooperation. City will provide the following assistance to
Contractor in connection with the Services:

               (a)     Representative. Designate a representative of City to act as Contractor's
point of contact with respect to the Services.

               (b)    Information. Provide to Contractor access to all non-confidential
infonnation pertaining to the Services that is in City's possession or is reasonably available to
City. Contractor shall not be responsible for errors or omissions in any City-provided
information, nor for delays in completing the Services attributable to City's delay in providing
required information.

               (c)    Sta{[Assistance. Such support of City's staff as City detennines, in its sole
                                                -6-
discretion, to make available to Contractor.

        Section 25.    Conflicts. In the event of inconsistencies within or between this
Agreement, the attached exhibits, the RFP, the Proposal or applicable legal requirements,
Contractor shall (a) provide the better quality or greater quantity of Services, or (b) comply with
the more beneficial requirements to City, either or both in accordance with City's reasonable
interpretation.

      Section 26.     Additional Provisions. The following provisions also are integral to this
Agreement:

                (a)    Titles and Captions. All section or subsection titles or captions herein are
for convenience only. Such titles and captions shall not be deemed part of this Agreement and
shall in no way define, limit, augment, extend or describe the scope, content or intent of any part
or parts hereof.

               (b)    Pronouns and Plurals. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun
used herein shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine or neuter forms, and the
singular form of nouns, pronouns and verbs shall include the plurals and vice versa.

              (c)     Applicable Law. The provisions of this Agreement shall be governed by
and construed in accordance with the laws of the state of Utah.

               (d)    Integration. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the
parties pertaining to the subject matter hereof, and supersedes all prior agreements and
understandings pertaining thereto.

               (e)    Time. Time is the essence hereof.

               (f)     Survival. All agreements, covenants, representations and warranties
contained herein shall survive the execution of this Agreement and shall continue in full force
and effect throughout the term of this Agreement.

               (g)     Waiver. No failure by any party to insist upon the strict perfonnance of
any covenant, duty, agreement or condition of this Agreement or to exercise any right or remedy
consequent upon a breach thereof shall constitute a waiver of any such breach or of such or any
other covenant, agreement, term or condition. Any party may, by notice delivered in the manner
provided in this Agreement, but shall be under no obligation to, waive any of its rights or any
conditions to its obligations hereunder, or any duty, obligation or covenant of any other party.
No waiver shall affect or alter the remainder of this Agreement but each and every other
covenant, agreement, term and condition hereof shall continue in full force and effect with
respect to any other then existing or subsequently occurring breach.

                (h)    Rights and Remedies. The rights and remedies of the parties hereto shall
not be mutually exclusive, and the exercise of one or more of the provisions of this Agreement
shall not preclude the exercise of any other provisions hereof.

               (i)     Severabilitv. In the event that any condition, covenant or other provision
hereof is held to be invalid or void, the same shall be deemed severable from the remainder of
                                                -7-
this Agreement and shall in no way affect any other covenant or condition herein contained. If
such condition, covenant or other provision shall be deemed invalid due to its scope or breadth,
such provision shall be deemed valid to the extent of the scope or breadth permitted by law.

               (i)    Litigation. If any action, suit or proceeding is brought by a party hereto
with respect to a matter or matters covered by this Agreement, all costs and expenses of the
prevailing party incident to such proceeding, including reasonable attorneys ' fees, shall be paid
by the non-prevailing party.

              (k)     Exhibits. All exhibits annexed to this Agreement are expressly made a part
of this Agreement as though completely set forth herein. All references to this Agreement, either
in this Agreement itself or in any of such writings, shall be deemed to refer to and include this
Agreement and all such exhibits and writings.

               (I)     Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in two or more
cmmterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, and all of which together shall
constitute one and the same instrument. This Agreement may be executed and delivered
electronically by facsimile, pdf transmission or similar, with the same legal effect as manual
execution and physical delivery.

                (m)     Authorizations. Each person signing this Agreement represents and
warrants that (s)he is authorized to sign this Agreement for the party indicated.

       DATED effective the date first-above written.

                                                 CONTRACTOR:

                                                 PERKINS ENGINEERING, INC.,
                                                 a Utah corporation


                                                 By:
                                                     - - - - - - -- - -- - - - - - -
                                                 Name and Title:
                                                                   ------------

                                                 CITY:

ATTEST:                                          COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS


B y : - - - - - -- - -- - -                     B y : - - - - - - - -- -- - - - -
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                           Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor




                                               -8-
         Exhibit "A" to
Independent Contractor Agree1nent

(Attach Contractor's 18 December 2025 Proposal)




                      -9-
                               Exhibit "B" to
                      Independent Contractor Agreement
                  INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR PARTIES
            CONTRACTING WITH THE CITY OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

       The contracting party shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract
insurance against claims for injuries to persons or damage to property which may arise from or in
connection with the performance of the work hereunder by the contracting party, his agents,
representatives, employees or subcontractors. The cost of such insurance shall be included in the
contracting party's bid.

       A.      MINIMUM LIMITS OF INSURANCE.

       The contracting party shall maintain limits no less than:

                1.      Professional Liability: $2,000,000.00 combined single limit per
occurrence for bodily injury, personal injury and property damage, including "tail coverage" for
at least one year after completion of all services.

                2.     Automobile Liability: $2,000,000.00 combined single limit per accident
for bodily injury and property damage. "Any Auto" coverage is required.

               3.       Worker 's Compensation: Worker's compensation limits as required by
applicable law for all employees and other persons.

               4.     Commercial General Liability: $2,000,000.00 combined single limit per
occurrence for personal injury and property damage; $2,000,000.00 annual aggregate. Broad
Form Commercial General Liability is required (ISO 1993 or better). Personal injury, premises-
operations, products-completed operation, independent contractors and subcontractors fire legal
liability and, when appropriate, coverages for explosion, collapse and underground (XCU)
hazards.

               5.      Excess Liability. $5,000,000.00.

       B.      DEDUCTIBLES AND SELF-INSURED RETENTIONS.

        Any deductibles (5% linlit), self-insured programs or retentions must be declared to and
approved by the city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City"). At the option of the City, either: the
insurer may be required to reduce or eliminate such deductibles or self-insured retentions as
respect to the City, its officers, officials and employees; or the contracting party may be required
to procure a bond guaranteeing payment of losses and related investigations, claim distribution
and defense expenses.

       C.      NOTICE OF INCIDENT OR ACCIDENT.

      The contracting party shall agree to promptly disclose to the City all incidents or
occtmences of accident, injury, and/or property damage covered by the insurance policy or
policies.

        D.     OTHER INSURANCE PROVISIONS.

        The policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:

               l.      General Liability and Automobile Liability Coverages.

                      (a)    The City, its officers, officials, employees and vohmteers are to be
covered as additional insured as respects: liability arising out of activities performed by or on
behalf of the contracting party; products and completed operations of the contracting party;
premises owned, leased, hired or borrowed by the contracting party. The coverage shall contain
no special limitations on the scope of protection afforded to the City, its officers, officials,
employees or vohmteers.

                       (b)     The contracting party's insurance coverage shall be a primary
insurance as respects to the City, its officers, officials, employees and volunteers. Any insurance
or self-insurance maintained by the City, its officers, officials, employees or volunteers shall be
in excess of the contracting party's insurance and shall not contribute with it.

                       (c)     Any non-material failure to comply with reporting provisions of
the policies shall not affect coverage provided to the City, its officers, officials, employees or
vohmteers.

                     (d)    The contracting party's insurance shall apply separately to each
insured against whom claim is made or suit is brought, except with respects to the limits of the
insurer's liability.

               2.      Worker's Compensation and Employer 's Liability Coverage.

                The insurer shall agree to waive all rights of subrogation against the City, its
officers, officials, employees and volunteers for losses arising from work performed by the
contracting party for the City.

               3.      All Coverages.

               Each insurance policy required by this clause shall be endorsed to state that
coverage shall not be cancelled before its expiration date except after thirty (30) days' prior
written notice (from the insurer) by first class mail, return receipt requested, has been given to
the City.

       E.      ACCEPTABILITY OF INSURERS.

              Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a Bests' rating of no less than A: VII,
unless approved by the Manager.

       F.      VERIFICATION OF COVERAGE.

               The contracting party shall furnish the City with certificates of insurance and with
                                               -11-
original endorsements effecting coverage required by this clause. The certificates and
endorsements are to be signed by a person authorized by that insurer to bind coverage on its
behalf. The certificates and endorsements are to be on forms provided before work commences.
The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies,
with all endorsements, at any time.

       G.      SUBCONTRACTORS.

                The contracting party shall include all subcontractors as insureds under its policy
or shall furnish separate certificates and endorsements for each subcontractor. All coverages for
subcontractors shall be subject to all of the requirements stated herein.




                                                -12-
                                                                    Perkins Engineering, Inc.
                                                                    Salt Lake City, UT 84121

                                                                             (801 ) 815-1491
                                                                            todd@tperk.com
                                                                             www.tperk.com



Perkins Engineering Proposal December 18, 2025




               Highland Dr; Bengal Blvd to Blackstone Rd
Pavement Rehabilitation (4" Mill and Overlay), Evaluate Pedestrian Ramps,
          Striping Change for NB approach to Fort Union Blvd


                                 Table Of Contents


Tasks and Detail Hours, combined cost proposal
Subconsultants - Merdian, Scope and cost proposal for survey
Project Schedule- Deliver by End of February 2026


Cottonwood Heights
Highland Drive pavement rehabilitation, striping, and ADA ramp evaluation.
Project extents are shown outlined in the red polygon on the attached drawings.
Scope of work - Design Engineering, Final Plans, Bid Schedule, M&P, Specs, Two
Review Meetings and Comment Revisions.
   •   4" rotomill and overlay on both sections
          o   Research overlay options. Overlay options are
                 •   Superpave with fabric
                 •   Fibermix pavement. Granite is a supplier. Material was used in the
                     parking lot at Snowbird.
                 •   Present options and cost to the city.
   •   Assess 16 ADA ramps to determine if they meet 1991 standards.
   •   Assess sections of roadway for any additional improvements.
          o   Including curbs, raised medians, etc.
          o   Concrete waterways to remain in place
          o   Signal poles to remain in place
                                                                  Perkins Engineering, Inc.
                                                                  Salt Lake City, UT 84121

                                                                           (801) 815-1491
                                                                          todd@tperk.com
                                                                           www.tperk.com



•   Look at alternatives for modifying striping design for NB traffic lanes approaching
    Fort Union Blvd to maintain 3 through lanes.
•   Design to stay within existing R/W or identify areas where additional R/W would
    be needed. Mostly around ADA ramps.
       o   No Existing R/W mapping, R/W design, or acquisition.
•   Produce engineers estimate, bidding schedule, specifications (APWA), and plan
    set showing updated striping design and any ADA or other roadway
    improvements.
       o   Plans will follow Cottonwood Heights templates and includes:
              •   Survey control sheet
              •   Horizontal control sheet
              •   Roadway Plans and Details
              •   Striping that is tied to a roadway alignment. (NB Approach to Fort
                  Union)
           Assumptions:
              •   No profile or modeling
              •   No drainage design or plan sheets
              •   No existing ROW mapping other than available County GIS data
              •   No ROW acquisition
              •   Perkins will prepare a final PS&E package including bid schedule
                  and M&P. The city will advertise the project.
                                             PERKINS ENGINEERING - HOURS DETAIL
                                             Highland Dr; Bengal Blvd to Blackstone Rd                          ~ltKINS
                                                                                                                     NG / NEERING

Cottonwood Heights City
CH PM: Ben Nelsen
Prime Consultant: Perkins Engineering

                            TASK                                      Todd       Brian               Marcy
                         DESCRIPTION                                 Perkins    Bonell              Perkins
                                                                     Project    Project    Design  Accounting               Total
                                                                     Manager   Engineer   Engineer   Admin                  Hours
2R1 30% Roadway & Striping Design                                      4            49      37         0         0           90
Resarch Overlay Options                                                2            2
Site Assessment & Field Review, Evaluate Pedestrian Ramps                           2       15
Assess sections of roadway for any additional improvements.                         5
Look at alternatives for modifying striping design for NB traffic
                                                                        1           6
lanes approaching Fort Union Blvd to maintain 3 through lanes.

For final strping alternative, design geometry and striping layout
                                                                                    12
for NB approach to Fort Union
Prepare title sheet, horizontal control sheet, initial roadway &
                                                                                    18      20
striping plans, initial typical sections
Prepare initial cost estimate                                          1            4        2
2V1 30% Review Meeting                                                 4            4        0         0         0            8
Prepare for and conduct the in-person 30% review meeting               2            2
Prepare meeting materials, agenda, meeting notes, comment
                                                                       2            2
form
4R1 90% PS&E - Roadway & Striping Plans, Specs, and
                                                                       2            52      36         0         0           90
Estimate
Complete typical section sheets                                                     4        2
Complete striping plans for NB approach to Fort Union Blvd                          15       8
Complete roadway plans and details                                                  25      20
Prepare quantities, estimate, bid schedule, specs, and M&P             2            8        6




                                                                      Page 1 of 2                                              12/18/2025
                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~
                                           PERKINS ENGINEERING - HOURS DETAIL
                                           Highland Dr; Bengal Blvd to Blackstone Rd
Cottonwood Heights City
CH PM: Ben Nelsen
Prime Consultant: Perkins Engineering

                           TASK                                Todd       Brian               Marcy
                        DESCRIPTION                           Perkins    Bonell              Perkins
                                                              Project    Project    Design  Accounting        Total
                                                              Manager   Engineer   Engineer   Admin           Hours
4V1 PS&E 90% Review Meeting                                     4             4       0         0         0    8
Prepare the agenda, meeting materials, and the CRF              2             2
Prepare for and conduct the in-person PS&E meeting              2             2
5Y1 Incorporate PS&E Review Comments                            2            10      10         0         0    22
Revise plans                                                    1            8       8
Revise estimate, bid schedule, specs, and M&P                   1            2       2
121 Project Management                                          7             2       0         5         0    14
Manage the project (informal meetings, emails, phone calls,
                                                                5             2
manage internal staff, and subconsultant )
Accounting & Invoicing                                          2                               5
                                                Total Hours     23           121     83         5         0   232




                                                               Page 2 of 2                                      12/18/2025
                                                  PERKINS ENGINEERING - STAFFING, HOURS, AND COST PROPOSAL
                                                               Highland Dr; Bengal Blvd to Blackstone Rd
                                                                                                                                          ~ fltklNS
                                                                                                                                               NG I N   r l If If.' G
       Cottonwood Heights City
       CH PM: Ben Nelsen
       Prime Consultant: Perkins Engineerin_g
                                              -
                            TASK                             Todd       Brian                 Marcy
                         DESCRIPTION                        Perkins    Bonell                Perkins
                                                            Project    Project    Design    Accounting
                                                            Manager   Engineer   Engineer     Admin                                 Total                Labor
                                                    RATE*   $101.28    $91.00     $43.00      $52.50                                Hours                Cost
      2R1 30% Roadway & Striping Design                       4         49         37                                                90             $6,455.12
      2V1 30% Review Meeting                                  4          4                                                            8                 $769.12
      4R1 90% PS&E - Roadway & Striping Plans, Specs, and
      Estimate                                                2         52         36                                                90             $6,482.56
      4V1 PS&E 90% Review Meeting                             4          4                                                            8                 $769.12
      5Y1 Incorporate PS&E Review Comments                    2         10         10                                                22             $1,542.56
      121 Project Management                                  7          2                      5                                    14             $1,153.46
                                             Total Hours      23        121        83           5        0     0          0          232
                                                                                                                         Total Direct Labor             $17,171.94
                                                                                                                      Overhead    156.47%               $26,868.93
                                                                                                             Total Direct Labor+ Overhead               $44,040.87
                                                                                                                      Fixed Fee    11.0%                 $4,844.50
                                                                                                             Miles       100       $0.670                      $67.00
                                                                                                                           Perkins Subtotal         $48,952.37
                                                                                                                            Subconsultants
                                                                                                               Meridian Engineering (Survey)        $12,300.00
                                                                                                                                       Total        $61 ,252.37




12/18/2025
                                                                        1628 West 11010 South. Swte 102
  MERIDIAN                                                                       South Jordan. UT 84095
  ENGINEERING, INC.
                                                                        T 8015691315 • F 801 569 1319
                                                                                 www MElamenca com




December 10, 2024



Perkins Engineering
2526 Starling Drive
Cottonwood Heights, Utah 84121

Attention:   Todd Perkins, PE

Re:          Scope and Fee to provide Surveying and Mapping Services

Subject:     Cottonwood Heights - Highland Drive Pavement Preservation

Todd,

Pursuant to your request that Meridian Engineering, Inc. (Meridian) provide surveying and
mapping services on the above-mentioned project, we respectfully offer the attached
scope of work services with associated fees.

Thank you for this opportunity and if you have any questions, or need any other
assistance, don't hesitate to contact me.

Respectt~          , ; : "/
~4~~~d___
Michael Nadeau, PLS/CFedS
Meridian Engineering, Inc.
SCOPE OF WORK
1) COMPILE AND MERGE EXISTING DATASETS (See Last Page for Limits):
   Under separate agreements, Meridian previously developed existing base mapping files and
   aerial imagery for the project owner, Cottonwood Heights. To remain mindful of City funds,
   Meridian will leverage these existing datasets for this project, as the City already owns the
   information. These datasets will be pulled from the following Cottonwood Heights projects:
            •   Bengal Blvd and Highland Dr Environmental
            •   Highland Drive Trail, Phase 3 - 30% Engineering Design
            •   Fort Union & Highland Drive Intersection 30% Design


a. Existing Base Mapping: The compilation of the existing topographic files will extend along
   Highland Drive from the south side of 1-215 southward to Bengal Boulevard , and will also
   include the full Bengal Boulevard corridor.
b. Aerial Imagery: The compilation of the orthorectified aerial imagery will follow the same
   extents, covering Highland Drive from the south side of 1-215 southward to Bengal Boulevard,
   and including the full Bengal Boulevard corridor.
c. Controlling Monumentation: Meridian will also provide all monumentation previously
   surveyed along Highland Drive and deliver this information to the design team to support
   project control and alignment development.
d. Control Sheet Development: Meridian will develop a survey control sheet showing the
   primary control and monumentation along Highland Drive for use during construction
   activities.


2) DESIGN TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEYS - Task items include:
a. Aerial Point Cloud Extraction:
       i.       Once the compilation is completed, Meridian's survey team will analyze the combined
                extracted data within the required survey limits to identify any areas that require
                additional extraction for this project.
      ii.       Meridian 's extraction team will utilize the compiled point cloud from Task 1 to extract
                all remaining features needed to complete the final base map of existing improvements
                along Highland Drive.
     iii.       Following the additional point cloud extraction, Meridian's survey team will compile a
                final existing topographic survey covering the full project limits for use by the design
                team. At a minimum, the final deliverables will include edge of pavement, utility lids,
                and striping.
     iv.        The final existing topographic files will be delivered in MicroStation (*.dgn) format.




                                                                                 Meridian Engineering, Inc. I 2
3) SUPPLEMENTAL SURVEYS - Task items include:
a. Due to the nature of aerial data collection, it is assumed that conventional survey methods will
   be used in areas requiring more critical vertical accuracy and design tie-ins.
b. ADA pedestrian ramps will be surveyed using conventional methods to provide the design
   team with accurate existing ramp information for evaluation of each location.


PROJECT FEE
Meridian proposes to provide the above defined scope of work services for a lump sum price
shown below. The breakdown of our costs is as follows:
 TASK                                                             FEE SCHEDULE
   1) Compile/Merge Existing Datasets                             $3,750.00
   2) Design Topographic Surveys (Extraction)                     $3,450.00
   5) Supplemental Surveys (ADA Ramps)                            $5,100.00
                                          Grand Total             $12,300.00


PROJECT SCHEDULE
Upon notice to proceed (NTP), Meridian will immediately schedule the dataset compilation for this
project as well as the field activities for the ADA pedestrian ramps. Depending on weather,
Meridian will complete the base mapping within 3 weeks from NTP, however Meridian will deliver
the compiled base mapping within 1 week.




                                                                           Meridian Engineering, Inc. I 3
PROJECT LOCATION AND TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEY LIMITS:




                                    Meridian Engineering, Inc. I 4
                                                                    s
                                                                        .
                                                                3


                                                                    •   . M.




        OOOL - t,t,6-108
                                  AtunoJ <ll'jl?l ll'?S
tctl>B ln ' Sl46!ilH pOOMUOlW:J   Sllj61aH pOOMUOUOJ
   pJe11a1no9 1e6ua9 3 lllc       :nmv a1e1s qein :saJ.mos
     Sl46!ilH pOOMUOllO:)         SZOZ Jaqwal\ON :paljS!lqrld
                                                                       s
                                                                           .
                                                                   3


                                                                       •
                                                                       N
                                                                           .M




         OOOl -1,t,6-l08
                                  A1unoJ 0)181 W.!S
tlt1'8 .Ln 's~461aH pooMuono::i   s146ti>H pooMuono:>
   pJe11a1noa 1e6uaa 3 Llll       :nmv illUlS 41?1(1 : s;J:>JnOS
     s~46JaH pooMuono::i          SlOZ JOQWOI\ON :paqs11qnd
                                                             .
                                                             l"ll~   •   fi   s
                                                             ii:1iii1 II
                                                                 I e0 □ I ~ □




         000L-t,t,6-108
                                  AlunoJ a)tel 111?5
{ltt,8 .Ln '5~46!oH p00MU0~10:)   S\ 461.:IH POOMU0-1-10.)
   pJeAa1no9 1e6ua9 3 LU.Z        :nt~V a1 e◄s tietn :sa:unos
      5~46!oH pOOMU0110:)         ~zoz ;aqu1aAoN :pal1s!1qnd
                                                        Published: November 2025          Cottonwood Heights
                                                        Sources: Ulah State AGRC       2277 E Bengal Boulevard
                                                               Cottonwood Heights
                                                                                     Cottonwood Heights, UT 84 121
~ ~odH,;ghk                                                       Sult Lake County
                                                                                            801-944- 7000
  ( 11]/,,,,t"~l/•r ( .fl()<"II




                        l l t•m
              ~    IC IC IC IC IC
              Jn'i;'i;'i;
              ;rggggg
              ~ <-<' < ~ <                     ..
                                               ~

                  !f I I I J
                  i Hi i !
                  I    a &             3
                                               i
            □* I□00                                I
             i ~~ ~ [g> ~~
             ~.

             r~
                        3
                        ~ •
                        :,        g>
                                  X
                                       i r[ !
                                           '.- 'o ~
                                           ,       0.   ~
                                                        a




                                  N




                      •
                                               '
                  W                            .E
                                    ( If)\ '

                          Cottonwood Heights
                          Cuy b<rn-rm tht r,m)'OIIJ




                        Attachment 2
                     Resolution 2026-11
  This resolution will approve an amended list of the council's
  "outside" and "inside" committee and board assignments to
incorporate changes made to the list approved under Resolution
                            2026-08.
                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                   RESOLUTION NO. 2026-11

  A RESOLUTION APPROVING AND RATIFYING AMENDED COMMITTEE ASSIGNMENTS

       WHEREAS, pursuant to applicable Utah state law and section 2.20.030(0) of the
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE OF ORDINANCES (the "Code"), the mayor (the " Mayor") of the city of
Cottonwood Heights ("City") is charged with representing the City in all of its external relationships,
such as City's participation on boards, commissions and community task forces involving other
governmental entities ("Outside Committees"); and

       WHEREAS, as provided in Policy 4 of the internal policies (the "Policies") of City' s city
council (the "Councif'), the Mayor may from time-to-time delegate to a member of the Council, or
remove a Council member from, the duty to represent City's interests on one or more Outside
Conunittees; and

        WHEREAS, the Policies also provide that the Mayor may appoint Council members as
liaisons to legislative advis01y committees under Code section 2.30.180 and/or City advisory
committees under Code chapter 2.140 ("Inside Committees") (the Outside Committees and the Inside
Committees are, collectively, the "Committees"); and

       WHEREAS, on 20 January 2026 pursuant to its Resolution 2026-08 the Council approved
the Mayor' s appointment of members of the Council and (with the City manager's acquiescence) City
administration to represent City on the Committees; and

       WHEREAS, since adoption of Resolution 2026-08 the Mayor has detennined that certain
changes to the appointments previously approved by the Council are appropriate, which amended
appointments are as designated on the attached exhibit (the "Exhibit"); and

       WHEREAS, consequently, the Mayor has requested the Council to ratify such amended
appointments and the Council met on 3 February 2026 to, among other things, approve and ratify the
amended Conunittee assignments specified on the Exhibit as requested by the Mayor; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of City's residents to so act;

        NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights that the Council hereby approves and ratifies the amended Conunittee assignments specified
on the Exhibit, with such assignees to perform and fulfill those assignments subject to and as provided
in the Policies and all other applicable standards and law.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-11, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

       PASSED AND APPROVED effective 3 February 2026.

ATTEST:                                      COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __                     By:-- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - -
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                   Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor
                                   VOTING:

                                   Gay Lynn Bennion            Yea_Nay_
                                   Matt Holton                 Yea_Nay_
                                   Suzanne Hyland              Yea_Nay_
                                   Shawn E. Newell             Yea_Nay_
                                   Ellen Birrell               Yea_Nay_

DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 3rd day ofFebrnary 2026.

RECORDED this_ day ofFebrnary 2026.




                                       2
              Council Board/Committee Assignments January 2026
             Committee                              Description                  When and Time           Member Assigned          Alternate

     Mayor Gay Lyun Bennion
Wasatch Front Regional Council          The Wasa tch Front Regiona l             Eve,y other         Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion
(WFRC) Transportation Coordinating      Council (WFRC) is an Association         month.
Committee (Trans Com)                   of Governments (AOG) organized
                                        under the lnterlocal Cooperation
                                        Act of Utah State Law to discuss
                                        and stud y community c hallenges of
                                        munia l interest and concern.
Conference of Mayors                                                             4th Thursday at     Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion and
                                                                                 J/ :30 am - 7       C ity Manager Jared Gerber
                                                                                 times/)lear
Council of Governments (COG)                                                     4th Thursday at     Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion
                                                                                 Noon
Central Wasatch Commission (CWC)        The mission of the CWC is to             First Monday of     Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion
                                         implement the Mounta in Accord          every Month at
                                        charter, which laid out pro posals for   3:30 pm.
                                        addressing fo ur major issue areas
                                        specific to the Centra l Wasatch
                                        Mounta ins: transportation,
                                        economic viab ility, environmental
                                        susta inability, and recreation
                                        stewardship.
Tourist, Recreation, Cultura l and      To advise the Counc il on TRCC tax       5a6 Meetings/year   Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion
Convention (TRCC) Advisory Board fo r   revenues. The council appoints 4         - June-December
SL County.                              people, Salt Lake Council of
                                        Governments appoints 5 people
                                        (Mayors who are munic ipal
                                        member of the counc il of
                                        governments). To be aware of
                                        formation of board and vacanc ies,
                                      qualified applicants should attend
                                      COG.
Unified Fire Authority (UFA) Board    Reviews issues re lated to the           Third Tuesday of    Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion         Counci l Member
                                      rnterlocal Agreement and Board           each month at                                      El len Birrell
                                      Policies. Makes recommendations          7:30 am.
                                      to the full Board of Directors.
UFA Finance Committee                 Reviews all wages and benefits in        Quarterly at Noon   Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion
                                      preparation for the budget process.
                                      Make recommendations to the
                                      Finance Committee. Receives the
                                      initia l presentation of the proposed
                                      budget from Staff and makes a
                                      recommendation to the ful l Board
                                      of Directors to a pprove the tentative
                                      budget in Mav.
COG Public Works Subcommittee                                                  Semi-Annual -       Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion
                                                                               July/August and
                                                                               Janua1y/February
City Audit Comm ittee                                                          December            Mayor Gay Lynn Benn ion,
                                                                                                   Counc il Member Suzanne
                                                                                                   Hy land and City Manager
                                                                                                   Jared Gerber
Canyons School District Liaison                                                As needed           Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion and
                                                                                                   Citv Manaeer Jared Gerber
Salt Lake Transportation Committee    To provide recommendations to the        As needed           Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion
                                      Transpo1tation Division, Mayor
                                      Erin Mendenhall, and City Council
                                      regarding transportation decisions
                                      and issues affecting Salt Lake City.
Utah League of C ities and Towns      The ULCT Board meets with state          Monday at I 1:30    Mayor and Jared Gerber
(ULCT) Legislative Policy Committee   leaders on pol icy making.               am during           Council Member Ellen Birrell
                                                                               legislation and
                                                                               every month as
                                                                               needed
Salt Lake County Board of Health                                               t'' Thursday at     Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion
                                                                               7:30 a.m.
Salt Lake County ZAP Tier If Advisory   The ZAP T ier II Advisory Board          As needed.         Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion
Board (Arts)                            will review applications and make
                                        funding recommendations to the
                                        Salt Lake County Council for ZAP
                                        T ier U funding. The board also
                                        advises staff and elected officials on
                                        issues pertaining to the ZAP
                                        l)rogram.
CH Budget Commi ttee                                                             As needed.         Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion and
                                                                                                    Council Member Suzanne
                                                                                                    Hvland
   Council Member Matt Holton           (District l )
PTOS (Parks, Trails, & Open Space       T he Parks, T ra ils, a nd O pen         4'" Wednesday of   Council Member Matt Holton
Co mmittee                              S pace Committee foc uses on             each month at
                                        find ing ways to ma inta in a nd         6:00 p.m.
                                        enhance the city's valuable
                                        parks, trails, a nd open space
                                        resources. T he committee is
                                        made up of dedicated res idents
                                        fro m across the city, a ll w ith
                                        knowledge, e xpertise, a nd
                                        passio n fo r a ll th ings recreation.
Wasatch Front Waste and Recycli ng                                               4'" Monday at      Council Member Matt Holton
District Board                                                                   9:00 a.m.
Alta View Hospital                                                               Quarterly          Council Member Matt Holton
                                                                                 Meetin£s
CH Compensation Committee                                                        As needed          Council Member Matt Holton
                                                                                                    and Council Me mber Shawn
                                                                                                    Newell
Council Member Suzanne Hyland           (District 2)
Mayor Pro Tempore                                                                As needed          Council Member Suzanne
                                                                                                    Hyland
Butlerville Days/ Community Events                                               As needed          Council Member Suzanne
Liaison                                                                                             Hv land
City Audit Committee                                                          As Needed in         Mayor and Council Member
                                                                              December             Suzanne Hvland
CH Business Association Liaison                                               As needed            Council Members Suzanne
                                                                                                   Hvland and E llen Birre ll
Emergency Planning                                                            Monthly - 3rd        Counci l Member Suzaime
                                                                              Tuesday ofeach       Hy land, Emergency
                                                                              month at 3pm.        Management and
                                                                                                   Administrative Staff
Utah Foundation Board                                                         Quarterly            Counc il Member Suzanne
                                                                                                   Hvland
South Valley Cham ber - Women in                                              Eve,y other month    Counci l Member Suzanne
Business Committee                                                                                 Hyland
CH Budget Committee                                                           As needed            Council Member Suzanne
                                                                                                   Hvland and Mavor Bennion
Council Member Shawn Newell           (District 3)
Canyons Education Foundatio n Board                                           Monthly - 3rd        Counc il M ember Shawn
                                                                              Thursday ofeach      Newell
                                                                              month at 7:30 a.m.
                                                                              *No meetings in
                                                                              December
Community Health Coalition                                                    Monthly - I-''       Counc il Member Shawn        Community
                                                                              Monday ofeve,y       Newell                       Health Coalition
                                                                              month at4pm
South Valley Chamber Board of                                                 Monthly - 3rd        Council Member Shawn
Trustees                                                                      Wednesday of         Newell and City Manager
                                                                              each month at        Jared Gerber
                                                                              7:30 a.m.
Arts Council                          The arts counc il meets monthl y to     Monthly first        Council Member Shawn
                                      plan and deliver arts projects in the   Wednesday at         Newell
                                      c ity. While these events happen        6:00 p.m.
                                      year-round, the biggest opportuni Ly
                                      l.'or in volvement comes in the
                                      months prior to the city's annua l
                                      summer musical, presented at the
                                      end o f'Jul v and into early Au!!ust.
CH Compensation Committee                                                      As needed           Council Member Shawn
                                                                                                   Newell and Council Member
                                                                                                   Matt Holton
Council Member Ellen Birrell            (District 4)

Association of Municipal Councils                                              2nd Tuesday of      Counc il Member Ellen Birre ll
                                                                               each month.
Unified Fire Authority (UFA) Board      Reviews issues re lated to the         Third Tuesday of    Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion            Counc il Member
(Alternate)                             lnterlocal Agreement and Board         each month at                                         Ellen Birrell
                                        Policies. Makes recommendations        7:30 am.                                              (Alternate)
                                        to the full Board of Directors.
Utah League of Cities and Towns         The ULCT Board meets w ith state       Monday at 11 :30    Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion            Utah League of
Legislative Po licy Committee           leaders on policy making.              am during           Counc il Member Ellen Birre ll,   Cities and Towns
                                                                               legislation and     and City Manager Jared            Legislative
                                                                               eve,y month as      Gerber                            Policy
                                                                               needed.                                               Committee
CH Business Association Lia ison                                               As needed           Council Members Ellen Birrell
                                                                                                   and Counc il Member Suzanne
                                                                                                   Hvland
Utah Transit Authority Local Advisory                                          Quarterly at 1:00   Council Member E llen Birrell
                                                                               /J.m.               (Alternate)
CH2 Committee                           Committee meets to review              Month~v 2"d         Counci l Member Ellen Birre ll
                                        upcoming events, issues and            Tuesday at 10:00
                                        concerns that collaborate with         a.m.
                                        Cottonwood He ights Parks and
                                        Recreation.
Historic Committee                                                             2nd Wednesday at    Counci l Member Ellen Birrell
                                                                               5:30 pm.
Youth City Counc il                                                            Monthly             Council Member Ellen Birre ll     Jared Gerber,
                                                                               (beginning in the                                     City Manager
                                                                               2024-2025 school
                                                                               year)
Salt Lake Valley Mosquito Abatement     To take a ll necessary and proper      As needed.          Council Member Ellen Birrell
Meeting                                 steps for the abatement of
                                        mosquitoes, tlies, grasshoppers, and
                                        other insects within the district
                                   which pose a potential threat to
                                   nublic health.
City Manager Jared Gerber
South Valley Chamber Board of                                              Monthly - 3rd      Jared Gerber, Council Member
Trustees                                                                   Wednesday of       Shawn Newell
                                                                           each month at
                                                                           7:30 a.m.
Utah League of C ities and Towns   The ULCT Board meets with state         Monday at 11:30    Mayor Bennion, Council
Legislative Policy Committee       leaders on pol icy making.              am during          Member Ellen Birrell and City
                                                                           legislation and    Manager Jared Gerber
                                                                           every month as
                                                                           needed.
Valley Emergency Comm unications                                           3rd Wednesday of   Jared Gerber                     Chief Robby
Center (VECC) Board                                                        evervMonth                                          Russo
Valley Emergency Communication     VECC Budget Committee Chair             As needed          Jared Gerber
Center Budget Committee Chair
CH Budget Committee                                                        As needed          CM TBD by Mayor Bennion,         Mayor Gay Lynn
                                                                                              Jared Gerber and Scott Jurnes.   Bennion
Utah City Managers Association     Meets with City management              As needed          Jared Gerber
(UCMA) Legislative Update Group    representatives across the state from
                                   various cities to review upcoming
                                   state legislative session issues.
CH Benefits and Compensation                                               As needed.         CM Shawn Newell and CM           Mayor Gay Lynn
Committee                                                                                     Matt Holton                      Bennion
CH Budget Committee                                                        As needed          CM Suzanne Hyland and            Mayor Gay Lynn
                                                                                              Mavor Bennion                    Bennion
Conference of Mayors                                                       4th Thursday at    Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion and       Confe rence of
                                                                           ll :30am- 7        City Manager Jared Gerber        Mayors
                                                                           times/year
Canyons School District Liaison                                            As needed          Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion and
                                                                                              Citv Manage r Jared Gerber
City Audit Commi ttee                                                      December           Mayor Bennion, Council
                                                                                              Member Suzanne Hyland and
                                                                                              City Manager Jared Gerber
Other
CH Budget Commi ttee               As needed       CM Suzanne Hyland and     Mayor Gay Lynn
                                                   Mavor Bennion             Bennion
C H Benefits and Compensation      As needed.      CM Shawn Newell and C M   Mayor Gay Lynn
Committee                                          Matt Holton               Bennion
WFRC Transcom Technical Advisory   As needed.      Matt Shipp
Committee

WFRC Planning Technical Advisory   As needed       Jim Spung
Committee
South Valley Chamber of Commerce   3rd Wednesday   Jim Spung
Ambassador Committee               every month
