COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING AGENDA
February 4, 2026

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission will convene on Wednesday,
February 4, 2026, at Cottonwood Heights City Hall (2277 E. Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121) for its
Work Session and Business Session meetings.

   1. Work Session – 5:00 p.m. – City Council Work Room
   2. Business Session – 6:00 p.m. – City Council Chambers

Both sessions will also be broadcast electronically on the city’s YouTube channel at
https://www.youtube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams.
Please see the reverse side of this agenda for instructions on how to make public comments.

5:00 p.m. Work Session
       1.0 Review Business Session Agenda
       The commission will review and discuss agenda items.

       2.0 Use Table Update

       3.0 Adjourn

6:00 p.m. Business Session
       1.0 Welcome and Acknowledgements
              1.1 Ex parte communications or conflicts of interest to disclose.

       2.0 General Public Comment
       This is an opportunity for individuals to make general public comments that do not relate to any projects
       scheduled for public hearing under the “Business Items” section of this agenda. Please see the Public
       Comment Policy on the reverse side of this agenda for more information.

       3.0 Business Items

               3.1 Project CUP-26-002
               The Planning Commission will review and take possible action on a Conditional Use Permit request
               by Dan Northrup to operate an emissions testing shop (Emissions Plus) at 1344 E. Fort Union.

               3.2 Project SUB-26-001
               The Planning Commission will hold a public hearing and take possible action on a Subdivision
               Amendment request by Chris Ensign of Encore Development for a 36-unit condo building located at
               7341 S Canyon Centre Parkway.

       4.0 Consent Agenda
              4.1 Approval of January 21, 2026, Planning Commission Minutes.

       5.0 Adjourn
       Next Planning Commission Meeting: March 4, 2026.
Public Comment
Individuals may provide public comments verbally or via writing.

Verbal comments are accepted in person at the 6:00 p.m. Business Session, but not at the 5:00 p.m. Work
Session. At the Business Session, public comments may be given during two intervals:
   1. General Public Comment Period – An opportunity for general comments not relating to specific projects on
       the meeting agenda.
   2. Specific Project Public Hearings – An opportunity for comments relating to specific projects on the meeting
       agenda which were noticed as public hearings.

Please note that verbal comments must be provided by attending the meetings in-person. Verbal comments
cannot be provided via the electronic broadcast of planning commission meetings on the city’s YouTube channel.

Verbal comment periods are an opportunity for individuals to share comments as they see fit but are not an
opportunity for “question and answer” dialogue. Questions should be directed to city staff at
planning@ch.utah.gov. Verbal comments provided during the public comment period will be limited to three
minutes per individual, or five minutes per a spokesperson who has been asked by a group that is present to
summarize their concerns.

Alternatively, written comments may be submitted to staff via email at planning@ch.utah.gov. For written
comments to be entered into the record and distributed to the planning commission prior to the meeting, they
must be submitted to staff by 12:00 p.m. MST on Tuesday, February 3, 2026, the day prior to the meeting.
Comments received after this deadline will be distributed to the planning commission after the meeting.

Meeting Procedures
Items will generally be considered in the following order: 1. Chair introduction of item, 2. Staff presentation, 3.
Applicant presentation, if applicable, 4. Chair opens public hearing, if applicable, 5. Chair closes public hearing, if
applicable, 6. Planning commission deliberation, 7. Planning commission motion and vote on item.

Applications may be tabled if additional information is needed in order to act on the item; or if the planning
commission feels there are unresolved issues that may need further attention before the commission is ready
to make a motion. No agenda item will begin after 9:00 pm without a unanimous vote of the commission. The
commission may carry over agenda items, scheduled late in the evening and not heard, to the next regularly
scheduled meeting.

Notice of Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, individuals needing special accommodations or
assistance during this meeting shall notify the City Recorder at (801) 944-7015 at least 24 hours prior to the
meeting. TDD number is (801) 270-2425 or call Relay Utah at #711.

Confirmation of Public Notice
On Thursday, January 29, 2026, a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the front
foyer of the Cottonwood Heights City Offices. The agenda was also posted on the City’s website at
www.cottonwoodheights.utah.gov and the Utah public notice website at http://pmn.utah.gov.

DATED THIS 29th DAY OF JANUARY, 2026, ATTEST: TIFFANY JANZEN, CITY RECORDER
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION PUBLIC HEARING
STAFF REPORT
February 4, 2026

Summary
Project #:
CUP-26-002

Subject Property:
1344 E. Fort Union Blvd

Action Requested:
Conditional use approval for the
operation of an emissions
testing shop

Applicants:
Spencer Thomas

Recommendation:
Approve, with conditions                         Aerial View

Context
Property Owners:
Dan Northrup

Address & Parcel #:
1344 E. Fort Union Blvd
22-20-479-007-0000

Acres:
0.62

Zoning:
CR – Regional Commercial



                                   View of property from northeast entrance
                                      Planning Commission Public Hearing Staff Report for CUP-26-002
                                                                                    February 4, 2026


Request
The applicant is requesting approval to operate an emissions testing facility, Emissions Plus, at
1344 E. Fort Union. The subject property is located within the Regional Commercial (CR) zone,
which allows “Motor vehicle sales agency, including service and repairs indoors, with outdoor
sales, display and storage” as a conditional use pursuant to §19.40.030.B.8. The property was most
recently operated as a gasoline service station, which is also a conditional use listed under the
same section of code. The building is currently vacant.

Emissions Plus is a test-only emissions station licensed and permitted through Salt Lake County.
Vehicles would pull up to the shop, where employees would scan the vehicle identification number
(VIN) and perform an emissions test. Upon passing, an emissions certificate would be issued. The
business also offers optional DMV renewal services at the time of testing. Once the process is
complete, vehicles depart the site. Customers remain in their vehicles throughout the process.

The business proposes operating Monday through Saturday and anticipates serving
approximately 20 to 40 vehicles per day, with two employees typically on site at any given time.
No repair, maintenance, or additional automotive services are proposed beyond emissions testing
and DMV renewal.

For context, an existing
emissions testing facility (Jiffy
Lube) is located across the street
within the same Regional
Commercial zoning district.

At this time, the applicant is not
proposing any site modifications
other than removing boards from
the building windows. The
property is located within both
the Gateway Overlay District
and the Sensitive Lands
Overlay, and any future
alterations would be required to
comply with the standards of
these overlay districts in addition
to applicable city code.


                                            Proposed site plan (no changes to the existing structures)




                                                                                               Page 2 of 6
                                    Planning Commission Public Hearing Staff Report for CUP-26-002
                                                                                  February 4, 2026


Zoning Map




       R-1-8                R-2-8                 CR                 O-R-D                 NC
     Residential         Residential           Regional         Office, Research      Neighborhood
    Single Family        Multi-Family         Commercial        and Development        Commercial

                                             Zoning Map




Analysis
Zoning
The subject property is located within the CR (Regional Commercial) zoning district. Pursuant to
CHMC §19.40.030.B, “Motor vehicle sales agency, including service and repairs indoors, with
outdoor sales, display and storage” is listed as a conditional use within the CR zone. The proposed
emissions testing facility falls under this category, as it involves indoor vehicle servicing activities
without outdoor repair or storage.

Conditional uses are defined as “a land use that, because of its unique characteristics or potential
impact on the city, surrounding neighbors, or adjacent land uses, may not be compatible in some

                                                                                            Page 3 of 6
                                  Planning Commission Public Hearing Staff Report for CUP-26-002
                                                                                February 4, 2026

areas or may be compatible only if certain conditions are required that mitigate or eliminate the
detrimental impacts.” (§19.84.010). Conditional uses are regulated by Chapter 19.84, which also
gives the Planning Commission authority to approve a proposed conditional use, approve a
proposed conditional use subject to conditions, postpone decision pending additional information,
or deny the proposed conditional use.

19.84.080 Determination

   A. Following any public hearing, the planning commission shall consider the application in a
      public meeting. The staff’s written recommendation shall be considered, among other
      factors. The planning commission may either approve the proposed conditional use;
      approve the proposed conditional use subject to specific modifications or conditions;
      postpone decision pending consideration of additional information to be submitted by the
      applicant; or deny the proposed conditional use.
   B. In approving a conditional use, the planning commission may impose such requirements
      and conditions as it deems necessary for the protection of adjacent properties and the public
      welfare. The planning commission shall only approve with conditions, or deny a conditional
      use, based upon written findings of fact with regard to each of the standards set forth below
      and, where applicable, any special standards for conditional uses set forth in the specific
      zoning district. The planning commission shall not approve issuance of a conditional use
      permit unless the evidence presented is such as to establish the following:
         1. That the proposed use is one of the conditional uses specifically listed in the zoning
             district in which it is to be located;
         2. That such use will not, under the circumstances of the particular case, be detrimental
             to the health, safety, comfort, order or general welfare of persons residing or working
             in the vicinity;
         3. That the use will comply with the intent, spirit, and regulations of this title and will be
             compatible with and implement the planning goals and objectives of the city;
         4. That the use will be harmonious with the neighboring uses in the zoning district in
             which it is to be located;
         5. That nuisances which would not be in harmony with the neighboring uses, will be
             abated by the conditions imposed;
         6. That protection of property values, the environment, and the tax base for the city will
             be assured;
         7. That the use will comply with the city’s general plan;
         8. That some form of a guaranty assuring compliance to all imposed conditions will be
             imposed on the applicant or owner;
         9. That the internal circulation system of the proposed development is properly
             designed;
         10. That existing and proposed utility services will be adequate for the proposed
             development;
         11. That appropriate buffering will be provided to protect adjacent land uses from light,
             noise and visual impacts;
         12. That architecture and building materials are consistent with the development and
             surrounding uses, and otherwise compatible with the city’s general plan, subdivision
             ordinance, land use ordinance, and any applicable design standards;
         13. That landscaping appropriate for the scale of the development and surrounding uses
             will be installed in compliance with all applicable ordinances;
                                                                                            Page 4 of 6
                                 Planning Commission Public Hearing Staff Report for CUP-26-002
                                                                               February 4, 2026

           14. That the proposed use preserves historical, architectural and environmental features
               of the property; and
           15. That operating and delivery hours will compatible with adjacent land uses.
           16. The foregoing approval standards shall be subject to any contrary requirements of
               Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-507, as amended.

Noticing
Notice of the public hearing was mailed to property owners within 300 feet of the subject property
at least 10 days prior to the public hearing, in accordance with CHMC §19.84.050.



Conclusions – Recommended Findings for Approval
   1. The applicant has provided a written narrative and supporting materials addressing client
      parking, hours of operation, staffing, and traffic flow. Based on the information submitted,
      staff finds that the proposed business will not negatively impact the surrounding area.
   2. A Planning Commission public hearing will be held in accordance with applicable local and
      state noticing and procedural requirements to consider the Conditional Use Permit
      request.

Recommendation
Staff recommends approval of the application with conditions:

Conditions of Approval
   1. The applicant shall obtain and maintain a valid Cottonwood Heights business license for the
      duration of the operations.
   2. All client parking shall be accommodated off-street within the existing property. The
      business shall not rely on on-street parking or adjacent off-property parking lots.
   3. The business shall be limited to emissions testing and DMV renewal, as stated in the
      application.
   4. A building permit shall be obtained for any exterior signage and other alterations to the
      premises that normally require a building permit.
   5. Any exterior signage and other exterior alterations will meet the guidelines outlined in the
      Gateway Overlay District (§19.49).
   6. Approval of this Conditional Use Permit is subject to review or revocation upon complaint or
      evidence of noncompliance with the conditions of approval or applicable City codes.
   7. Any expansion or change in the scope of the business shall require additional City review and
      approval.

Model Motions
Approval
I move to approve project CUP-26-002, based upon the recommended findings for approval
outlined in this staff report:
• List any other findings or conditions of approval…
                                                                                         Page 5 of 6
                                 Planning Commission Public Hearing Staff Report for CUP-26-002
                                                                               February 4, 2026


Denial
I move to deny project CUP-26-002, based on the following findings:
• List findings for denial…



Attachments
   1.   Applicant Narrative
   2.   Site Plan
   3.   Traffic Flow
   4.   Site Photos




                                                                                    Page 6 of 6
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION
STAFF REPORT
February 4, 2026

Summary
Project Number:
SUB-26-001

Subject Properties:
7367 E. Canyon Centre
Pkwy

Action Requested:
Plat Amendment

Applicant:
Chris Ensign, Encore
Development, LLC

Recommendation:
APPROVE WITH
CONDITIONS

Context
Property Owner:
Encore
Development, LLC

Acreage:
Approx. 3.95 acre




Request

The applicant is requesting approval of an amendment to Unit 2B of the Canyon Centre Condominiums
Amended #1 plat and a portion of Lot 1 of the Canyon Centre subdivision plat to plat 36 previously
approved residential units (City File CUP-24-016) in a condominium form of ownership. The proposed
amendment would formally establish 36 residential condominium units within the Canyon Centre
development.
The amendment also includes the establishment of parking and pedestrian access easements, along
with associated maintenance agreements, on portions of Lot 1 to allow pedestrian access across Lot 1 to
the residential condominium building and the structured parking facility. In addition, the amendment
assigns maintenance responsibilities to ensure that any portions of the development that encroach onto
City-owned property are maintained by the property owner.
                                                           Planning Commission – February 4, 2026
                                                 Project SUB-26-001 – 7367 S. Canyon Centre Pkwy
No additional residential units are proposed, and the request does not modify the previously approved
land use entitlements, building envelope, or site layout.

Background & Context

CANYON CENTRE MASTER DEVELOPMENT PLAN
The Canyon Centre project is a 10.89-acre mixed-use development located within the City’s Mixed Use
zoning district. The project originally received Master Development Plan approval from the Planning
Commission in 2014, with subsequent amendments approved over time to refine individual components
of the development, including the residential condominium component.
On October 16, 2024, the city approved City File CUP-24-016, authorizing an amendment to the
previously approved Master Development Plan to remove the entitlement for approximately 65,000
square feet of office space and replace it with a 36-unit residential condominium building. This action
formally approved the condominium use in place of the originally entitled office use.
As amended, the approved Master Development Plan includes a structured parking facility with both
private and public parking, multiple commercial and retail spaces, a 149-room hotel, a 140-unit multi-
family apartment building, a 17-lot single-family residential subdivision, a publicly accessible plaza, and
the 36-unit residential condominium building.

Analysis & Findings

LAND USE
The proposed plat amendment would establish for-sale residential condominium units within the
Canyon Centre development. Residential uses, including mixed residential housing types, are permitted
within the 19.36 MU – Mixed Use Zone, provided the development is located within a project area that
contains multiple land uses in close proximity. The Canyon Centre project meets this standard and is
consistent with the intent and provisions of the Canyon Centre Development Agreement.
Staff Analysis – Staff finds that the proposed plat amendment is consistent with the land uses permitted
under the 19.36 MU – Mixed Use Zone and complies with the intent and applicable provisions of the
Canyon Centre Development Agreement. Approval of the request would implement the approved
mixed-use framework for the site and provide an additional for-sale housing option within the Canyon
Centre project area.
UTILITIES
The applicant is currently working to secure will-serve letters from the applicable water and sewer
service providers for the proposed project. Will-serve letters were previously provided during the initial
master development approval; however, those letters reflected utility capacity and service
considerations for an office use rather than the currently proposed residential use.
Staff Analysis – Staff recommends a condition of approval requiring the applicant to submit will-serve
letters from the water and sewer providers either at the time of final plat submittal or prior to
recordation of the plat.




                                                                                                 Page 2 of 7
                                                           Planning Commission – February 4, 2026
                                                 Project SUB-26-001 – 7367 S. Canyon Centre Pkwy

SENSITIVE LANDS
At the time the amendment was approved to remove the entitlement for approximately 56,000 square
feet of office space and replace it with 36 residential condominium units (City File CUP-24-016), an
extensive fault hazard study had already been completed for the Canyon Centre project. That study
evaluated the overall site and informed the original land use entitlements and development layout.
Based on the scope and findings of the approved study, it was anticipated that no additional sensitive
lands scoping would be required for the conversion from office to residential use.
Staff Analysis – The City Engineering Department reviewed the proposed plat amendment and
evaluated it in the context of the previously approved fault hazard study. Staff have no concerns related
to fault hazards that would warrant additional sensitive lands studies. This determination is based on
the finding that the proposed condominium units would be constructed within the same building
footprint as the office space previously approved and evaluated under the original study. While no
additional fault hazard or sensitive lands analysis is required as part of this plat amendment, all building
permit submittals remain subject to review by the Development Review Committee (DRC) to ensure
continued compliance with applicable codes and standards.
EASEMENT AND MAINTAINENCE AGREEMENTS (LOT 1)
In addition to amending the plat to establish the 36 residential condominium units, the current request
includes limited encumbrances within a portion of the southeast corner of Lot 1 that, pursuant to the
Canyon Centre Development Agreement, is intended to be vacated to the City for development of the
Plaza Park.




These encumbrances include a building ventilation shaft, stair improvements, a planter box, and an
electrical junction box. City staff are currently working with the developer to draft the necessary
easement, access, and maintenance agreements to allow for public access to the residential
condominium building and structured parking facility, provide for parking access, and establish ongoing
maintenance responsibilities, including snow removal and general upkeep of the affected area.


                                                                                                Page 3 of 7
                                                         Planning Commission – February 4, 2026
                                               Project SUB-26-001 – 7367 S. Canyon Centre Pkwy
Staff Analysis – As noted, City staff is currently working with the developer to finalize the easement,
access, and maintenance agreements associated with the proposed plat amendment. A key component
of these ongoing discussions has focused on minimizing and consolidating the area of encumbrance
within the portion of the site intended for future development of the Park Plaza.
To improve pedestrian circulation and provide clear, unobstructed access to the Park Plaza, staff have
proposed relocating the electrical junction box farther east toward the planter box in order to
consolidate site improvements into a more compact area. The developer has indicated that the
placement of the electrical junction box is subject to limitations imposed by Rocky Mountain Power
(RMP) and that the box must remain within this general area to meet utility service requirements.
According to the developer, RMP has determined that the electrical junction box cannot be relocated
south of the retaining wall due to the abrupt grade change in that area and has also prohibited
placement on the south side of the building due to existing underground utilities. Staff will continue to
work with the developer to identify feasible options that minimize encumbrances while maintaining safe
and accessible pedestrian circulation.




Because Lot 1 is anticipated to be dedicated to the city for development of the Park Plaza, and to ensure
that public access to the residential condominium building and structured parking facility is not
restricted, an access easement will be required across both Lot 1 and Lot 2. This easement will ensure
continued public pedestrian access through the site, consistent with the intent of the Canyon Centre
Development Agreement.
In addition, an agreement will be required to clearly define public and private parking stalls in
accordance with the Canyon Centre parking agreement. To ensure that all access, parking, and
maintenance obligations are clearly established prior to finalization of the plat, staff recommends a
condition of approval that the plat shall not be recorded until all required easements and agreements
have been drafted and approved by the City.




                                                                                             Page 4 of 7
                                                          Planning Commission – February 4, 2026
                                                Project SUB-26-001 – 7367 S. Canyon Centre Pkwy

Development Sequencing and Plat Recordation

As part of the implementation of the approved Canyon Centre development, the City and the applicant
have entered into an administrative agreement to allow construction of the residential condominium
building to proceed prior to recording the amended plat. This approach was evaluated in the context of
the development timeline established in the Canyon Centre Development Agreement, which requires
completion of this phase of development by December 31, 2028.

Based on this timeline, the applicant submitted a building permit application for the condominium
building prior to final plat recordation. City staff reviewed the building permit for consistency with the
approved plans, the Canyon Center development agreement, and City File CUP-24-016 and determined
that the proposed construction is consistent with the approved land use entitlements. A building permit
has been issued to allow construction to proceed.

As part of this agreement, the City has included a provision prohibiting scheduling of the final four-way
inspection until the amended plat has been recorded. The applicant has acknowledged that proceeding
with construction prior to plat recordation is undertaken at the applicant’s own risk and does not alter
the requirement that the plat be recorded in accordance with City code and conditions of approval.

Subdivision Amendment Procedure

12.26.010 Plat Vacation Process

    A. The planning commission may, with or without a petition, consider any proposed vacation,
       alteration, or amendment of a subdivision plat, any portion of a subdivision plat, or any
       street, lot, or alley contained in a subdivision plat at a public hearing.
    B. If a petition is filed, the planning commission shall hold a public hearing within 45 days after
       receipt of a petition.

12.26.020 Notice Of Hearing For Plat Change

    A. The planning commission shall cause notice of the proposed plat change to be mailed to
       each owner of real property located within 400 feet of the property that is the subject of the
       proposed plat change, addressed to the owner’s mailing address appearing on the most
       recent assessment rolls of the Salt Lake County Assessor.
    B. The notice shall include the date, place, and time when the hearing will be held to consider
       such proposed plat change.
    C. If the proposed change involves the vacation, alteration, or amendment of a street, the
       planning commission shall also cause notice of the date, place, and time of the hearing
       regarding the matter to be given as required by UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-609.5, as
       amended.




                                                                                               Page 5 of 7
                                                          Planning Commission – February 4, 2026
                                                Project SUB-26-001 – 7367 S. Canyon Centre Pkwy

Recommendation

Based on the analysis and findings contained in this staff report, staff recommend that the Planning
Commission approve the amendment to Unit 2B of the Canyon Centre Condominiums Amended #1 plat
and a portion of Lot 1 of the Canyon Centre subdivision plat, subject to the conditions outlined below.
Staff finds that the proposed plat amendment is consistent with the 19.36 MU – Mixed Use Zone,
complies with the intent and applicable provisions of the Canyon Centre Development Agreement, and
implements the previously approved Master Development Plan as amended by City File CUP-24-016.
The amendment does not increase residential density, modify approved land use entitlements, or alter
the approved site layout or building envelope, and it provides for an approved condominium form of
ownership within the Canyon Centre mixed-use development.
The proposal has been reviewed in accordance with the subdivision amendment procedures set forth in
Title 12, Chapter 26, and staff finds that the request meets applicable approval criteria, subject to the
following conditions of approval:
Conditions of Approval
    1. Will-Serve Letters
       Prior to final plat submittal or recordation of the plat, the applicant shall provide will-serve
       letters from the applicable water and sewer service providers confirming capacity and service
       availability for the proposed residential condominium use.
    2. Easement, Access, and Maintenance Agreements
       Prior to recordation of the plat, all required access easements, parking agreements, and
       maintenance agreements—including those necessary to ensure public pedestrian access across
       Lots 1 and 2, define public and private parking stalls, and establish ongoing maintenance
       responsibilities for improvements encroaching into City-owned property—shall be drafted and
       approved by the City.
    3. Utility and Encroachment Coordination
       The final location and configuration of site improvements within the area intended for future
       Park Plaza development, including the electrical junction box and related infrastructure, shall be
       finalized in coordination with City staff and applicable utility providers to minimize
       encumbrances and maintain safe, unobstructed pedestrian access.
    4. Final Plat Review
       The project must comply with all review comments provided by staff during the technical review
       of the final plat, including all easement and maintenance agreements being noted on the plat in
       addition to separate instrument number(s), as recorded with the County Recorder’s Office.
    5. Final Plat Recordation
       As per 12.08.010, The final plat shall be recorded within one (1) year of the date of City
       approval. Failure to record the plat within this time frame shall render the approval null and
       void, unless a written request for an extension is submitted to and approved by the Planning
       Commission within the one-year period.
Subject to these conditions, staff recommend approval of the proposed plat amendment.




                                                                                              Page 6 of 7
                                                             Planning Commission – February 4, 2026
                                                   Project SUB-26-001 – 7367 S. Canyon Centre Pkwy

Model Motions

APPROVAL
“I move to approval project SUB-26-001, a request by Chris Ensign with Encore Development, LLC, to
amend Unit 2B of the Canyon Centre Condominiums Amended #1 plat and a portion of Lot 1 of the
Canyon Centre subdivision plat to plat 36 previously approved residential units (City File CUP-24-016) in
a condominium form of ownership at 7367 S. Canyon Centre Parkway, subject to the findings and
conditions listed in the project staff report dated February 4, 2026.”
    •    List additional conditions of approval…
    •    List additional findings…
DENIAL
“I move to deny project SUB-26-001, based on the following findings:”
    •    List findings for denial…




Attachments

    A. Applicant’s Narrative
    B. Proposed Amended Plat
    C. Recorded Plat




                                                                                              Page 7 of 7
       Attachment A
Application & Narrative
       Attachment B
Proposed Amended Plat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LINE TABLE                                           LINE TABLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I, Eric D. Robins do hereby certify that I am a Professional Land Surveyor, and that I hold certificate




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        No. 5152671 as prescribed under the laws of the State of Utah. I further certify that by the authority of the owners, I




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LINE #      LENGTH       DIRECTION                  LINE #       LENGTH          DIRECTION
                                                                                                                                                         AMENDING UNIT 2B OF THE CANYON CENTRE CONDOMINIUMS AMENDED #1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        hereby certify that




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          L I
                                                                                                                                                                  AND A PORTION OF LOT 1 OF THE CANYON CENTRE                                                                                                                                                                                                                            L1       63.353      N11°31'30"W                    L14        5.292         S78°28'30"W                                                                                                                                   L AN D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PRE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NA L
                                                                                                                                                                LOCATED IN THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 25,                                                                                                                                                                                                                          L2       12.853      S78°28'30"W                    L15       13.258         S33°28'30"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                APRES CONDOMINIUMS                                                      IO                   S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             UR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         No. 5152671
                                                                                                                                                                          TOWNSHIP 2 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P ROF E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         L3        4.325      S30°13'25"W                    L16        1.500         N11°31'30"W       complies with the provisions of Section 57-8-13 (1) of the Utah Condominium Ownership Act.                           ERIC D.
                                                                                                                                                                            SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ROBINS
                                                                                                                                                          PORCUPINE INV. GROUP                                                                                                                                                               PACIFICORP 10' WIDE                                                                         L4       13.765      S75°19'18"E                    L17       33.735         N82°04'43"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MASSLAND PROPERTIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TA
                                                                                                                                                            COTTONWOOD LLC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TE OF UTA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S
                                                                                                                                                                                                               JAMES STOJACK                                          CORPORATION                                                            EASEMENT FOR A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RIGHT OF WAY                                                                                L5        7.814      N12°01'51"E                    L18       14.144         N01°38'55"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   P.U.E. AREA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         31.16'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S87°44'40"E 226.027'                                                               BK. 9177 PG. 115
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         L6        8.000      S78°22'52"W                    L19       31.736         S87°44'40"E       All of Unit 2B and Common Area of Canyon Centre Condominiums Amended #1, according to the official plat thereof,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CENTERLINE EASEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S58°07'00"E 133.000'                                                                                                                                                                       recorded as Entry No. 13108148 in Book 2019P at Page 287 in the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N15° .281'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         L7        8.000      N78°22'52"E                    L20       84.238         N87°00'52"E
                                                                                                                                                CENTERLINE 24' INGRESS/EGRESS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SEE DTL. A THIS SHEET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       27'42
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         L8       33.167      N11°31'30"W                    L21       18.272         N03°48'57"W
                                                                                                                                                 EASEMENT PER CANYON CENTRE                                                                                                                                               24.63'                              FOR P.U.E. DIMENSIONS
                                                                                                                                                          PLAT BK. 2015P PG. 83                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          L9        7.333      S78°28'30"W                    L22       18.349         N86°22'18"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             "W
                                                                                                                                                                             LOT 3                                C10                                                                                                                                                                                                                    L10       8.833      N11°31'30"W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            P.U.E
                                                                                                                                                                                                          "E
                                                                                                                                                                                                      5'03




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C11
                                                                                                                                                                                                   2°4 0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                L11       5.667      S78°28'30"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                 N6 6.70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .
                                                                                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         L12      57.583      N11°31'30"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 P.U.E. AREA                                                             L13       2.000      S78°28'30"W
                                                                                                                                                                                 C9



                                                                 P.U.E. AREA                                                                                                              CENTERLINE 20' SEWER EASEMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CURVE TABLE
                                                                                                                                                                                          PER CANYON CENTRE PLAT
                                                                                                                                                                                          BK. 2015P PG. 83                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CURVE #        LENGTH      RADIUS           DELTA         CH. BEARING            CH. LENGTH
                             P.U.E.
                             10.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C1        174.152      60.500         164°55'42"        N67°18'44"W           119.955




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PLAZ
                                                                                                                                                                                                             NOTE: UNIT 2A PAD OWNERSHIP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        15.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                          EXTENDS OVER THE TOP OF UNIT 2E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (SEE
                                                  L19                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C2          6.589      4.500          083°53'35"        N62°43'54"E            6.016




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A EAS E 6)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          WASA
                                                                                                                                                                                                               & FIRE RISER COMMON AREA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ' NO B ENT
                                        L18




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C3         34.415      42.500         046°23'45"        N43°58'59"E           33.482
                                                               C15




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NOT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OVERALL PARCEL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    UILD/
                                                  L17                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C4         26.470      27.500         055°09'00"        N39°36'21"E           25.460
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  172,170 SQ. FT.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S11°3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C5         44.196     107.500         023°33'21"        N00°15'11"E           43.886




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TCH B
                                                                                 .E.                                                                                                                                                            FIRE RISER
                                                                      20.56' P.U




                                                                                                                                                                                                 C8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COMMON AREA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '30"E
                                                                        & TR  AIL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C6        180.280     122.500         084°19'14"        N53°41'07"W           164.446




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S11°3
                                                                                NT                                                                                                                                                                 (BELOW)
                                                                       EASEME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C7          9.184      20.000         026°18'36"        S70°59'58"W            9.103




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         342.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10' P.U.E. & TRAIL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1'30"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EASEMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                C8        212.834     230.000         053°01'10"        N30°48'01"W           205.321




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              30'
                                                        DETAIL "A"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    D.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      276.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C9         98.214     170.000         033°06'05"        N46°12'00"E           96.854
                                                        SCALE: 1" = 20'                                                                                                                                                             COMMON AREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7337 S. CANYON CENTRE PARKWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C10         51.830     249.500         011°54'08"        N68°42'07"E           51.736




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1'   3
 NOTES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   C11        136.953     1482.690        005°17'32"         S08°53'50"E          136.904
1.    The notes on plat map of Canyon Centre Condominiums Amended #1 recorded on October 25, 2019,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C12         40.914      25.000         093°46'05"        S35°15'54"W           36.499




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N11°3
      as Entry No. 13108148 in the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder are incorporated herein by                                                                                                                   C7




                                                                                                                                                                                           ARKWAY
      reference                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C13         31.419     370.000         004°51'55"        S84°34'54"W           31.410
 2.   Private area of Unit 2B as shown hereon is building pad located on top of parking structure.                                                                                                                                                  C6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1'30"W
 3.   Condominium project shall be regulated by covenants, conditions, and restrictions for the association                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C14         18.867     360.000         003°00'10"        N85°30'47"E           18.865
      of unit owners for the Aprés Condominiums.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .&
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ' P.U.E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PLAZ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            20.00
 4.   The Cecret Plaza Area is Limited Common Area of the Canyon Centre Condominiums project for the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C15         17.665     1502.690        000°40'25"         S06°51'16"E          17.664
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               20.56 SEMENT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       437.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (SEE
      benefit of Unit 2B. See plat map of Canyon Centre Condominiums Amended #1 recorded on October                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TRAIL EMAIN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A EAS E 6)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ' NO B ENT
      25, 2019, as Entry No. 13108148 in the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TO R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  55'
 5.   Balconies, patios, cantilevered additions, podium extensions, signs, stairways, haunches, and other




                                                                                                                                                                                       CANYON CENTRE P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NOT
      appurtenances and improvements affixed to or part of Unit 2B that extend beyond the boundaries of                                                             LOT 4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      33'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       UILD/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      122.3
      Unit 2B are Limited Common Areas of the Canyon Centre Condominiums project which are for the                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '30"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                78°28                                  L16




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S7°41'10
      benefit of Unit 2B. See Notes 2-3 of the Canyon Centre Condominiums Amended #1 recorded on                                                                                                                                                                                                               N                                                                               L15                                                                                                                                             Know all men by these presents that the undersigned owner(s) of said tract of land hereon do hereby




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       57.983'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          N11°3
      October 25, 2019, as Entry No. 13108148 in the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            L14                                                                                                                                                   certify that owner consent to the recordation of this condominium plat in accordance with Utah Code
 6.   The entry patio area to Unit 2B which includes the stairway to the parking garage adjacent to the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ann. § 57-8-13, subdividing the land into condominium ownership, and creating units, common area,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              "E
      Southwest corner of Unit 2B is common area of the Canyon Centre Condominiums                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             and limited common areas and easements all as set forth herein to hereafter be known as APRéS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1'30"W
7.    For further information regarding the definitions of Common Area, Limited Common Area, Units, and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONDOMINIUMS do hereby dedicate for perpetual use of the public all parcels of land shown on this
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   P.U.E. AREA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DOWN TO ELEV. 4941'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DOWN TO ELEV. 4930'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DOWN TO ELEV. 4919'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SETBACK FOR FDNS.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SETBACK FOR FDNS.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SETBACK FOR FDNS.
      maintenance obligations of such areas, see the recorded declaration of covenants, conditions, and                                                                                                                               LOT 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    plat as intended for public use. The owner(s) warrant and defend and save the City harmless against
      restrictions for Aprés Condominiums and other covenants and agreements for the Canyon Centre                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             any easements or other encumbrances on any dedicated street which will interfere with the City's use,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             81.90




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S11°3 7'
      Condominiums and the Canyon Centre subdivision on file in the office of the Salt Lake County                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             maintenance, and operation of the street
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ACCESS, PARKING & P.U.&D.E.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             68.89
      Recorder.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       144.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                          RECORDED AS ENTRY #                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        In witness whereof                    have hereunto set this                day of




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7'08"
                                                                                                                                                                                                          IN BOOK         AT PAGE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A.D., 20           .




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S11°3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        67'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IN THE SALT LAKE COUNTY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RECORDERS OFFICE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1'30"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GRADE, WHICHEVER IS GREATER
  LEGEND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TO ELEV. 4952' OR 2'-6" BELOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     L5                                                                                                                                                     L6                                                                                                                  NAME:                                                    TITLE:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SETBACK FOR FDNS. DOWN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             C4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        232.8
                               SECTION MONUMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                             C3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S11°3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           75'
                               FOUND STREET MONUMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                C2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         STATE OF                                )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            L13




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7'08"E
                               NAIL                                                                                                                                                                                                                 L4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          :SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               COUNTY OF                                        )




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    L12
                               REBAR & CAP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               UNIT 2B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     129.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  L11                                            25,627 S.F.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               On this        day of                  , 20      , personally
                               FIRE HYDRANT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        L10                                        7367 S. CANYON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CENTRE PARKWAY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       55'
                               PROPOSED STREET LIGHT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 L9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               appeared before me                                              , who being by me duly sworn




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P.U.E
                               CENTER LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         L2                                                                                                  '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7'     23.85                   L7                                                                                                         did say that he is the                         of Aprés Condominiums, LLC, a Utah limited liability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.66




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0"W 9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   L8
                               P.U.E.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8'3                                                                                                                                                                       company, and that the foregoing instrument was duly authorized by said company at a lawful
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S78°2                                                                                                                                                                                          meeting held or by authority of its bylaws and signed in behalf of said company.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   L22




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   L1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           38.98'
                               EXISTING EASEMENT                                                                                                                               LOT 5                                                                                 C1                                  L3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     L21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                C14




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    25.85'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      L20
                               OVERHEAD POWER LINE                                      FND. S.L. COUNTY MONUMENT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             C1
                                                                                               WEST 1/4 COR. SEC. 25                                                              EAST 1771.540'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Commission Number                                               My Commission expires
                               FAULT & FAULT SETBACKS PER CANYON                                   T2S, R1E, S.L.B.&M.                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S87°00'52"W 82.736' C13                                                             P.U.E. AREA
                               CENTRE PLAT BK. 2015P PG. 83                                              BRASS DISK                                                                                                                                                                                                                             P.O.B.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NORTH 0.616'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GRAPHIC SCALE
                               LIMITED COMMON AREA FOR THE
                               BENEFIT OF UNIT 2B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -50                 0        25        50               100
                                                                                                                         S00°03'19"E 2672.45'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Name, Notary Public Commissioned in Utah
                                                                                                                         BASIS OF BEARINGS




                               PRIVATE AREA OF UNIT 2B - SEE NOTE 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CANYON RACQUET CLUB                                                                                                                                                                                                          ( IN FEET )
                                                                                                                                                                 BENCHMARK                                                                                      CONDOMINIUMS BK. 81-7 PG. 110                                                                                                                                                                                                 1 Inch = 50 ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AMENDING UNIT 2B OF THE CANYON CENTRE CONDOMINIUMS AMENDED #1
                                                                                                                                                                 Brass cap monument marking the West Quarter corner of Section 25, Township 2 South, Range 1 East,
                                                                                                                                                                 Salt Lake Base and Meridian.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AND A PORTION OF LOT 1 OF THE CANYON CENTRE
                                                                                                                                                                 Elevation = 5066.34 feet as referenced on the Salt Lake County Surveyor's Monument Reference Sheet,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOCATED IN THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 25,
                                                                                                                                                                 measured April 9, 2003.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOWNSHIP 2 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Approved on this ______ day of _______________, A.D.,
                                                                                                                                                                 FLOOD ZONE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               20____.
                                                                                       FND. S.L. COUNTY MONUMENT                                                 The subject property lies entirely within Flood Zone X (unshaded) as designated on FEMA Flood Insurance                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OWNER/SUBDIVIDER:                            ENGINEER:
                                                                                           SOUTHWEST COR. SEC. 25                                                Rate Maps for Salt Lake County, Utah and Incorporated Areas Community Panel No. 456 of 625 Map                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          XX                                           PERIGEE CONSULTING
                                                                                                  T2S, R1E, S.L.B.&M.                                            Number 49035C0456G dated September 25, 2009. Flood Zone X (unshaded) is defined as "Areas                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               XX                                           9089 S. 1300 W. STE. 160
                                                                                                        BRASS DISK                                               determined to be outside the 0.2% annual chance floodplain."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            XX                                           WEST JORDAN, UTAH 84088
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DIRECTOR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Presented to the Cottonwood Heights City Council this ______ day of                      STATE OF UTAH, COUNTY OF SALT LAKE, RECORDED AND FILED AT THE REQUEST OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               _______________A.D., 20____.
Approved on this ______ day of _______________, A.D.,                             Approved on this ______ day of _______________, A.D.,                                     Approved on this ______ day of _______________, A.D.,                                                    Approved as to form this ______ day of _______________,
20____.                                                                           20____.                                                                                   20____ by the Cottonwood Heights City Planning                                                           A.D., 20____.
                                                                                                                                                                            Commission                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Date                       Time                         Book                      Page
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MAYOR


PLANNING DIRECTOR                                                                 DIRECTOR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ATTEST: CITY RECORDER                                                                    Fee$                                    Deputy, Salt Lake County Recorder
                                                                                                                                                                            CHAIRMAN                                                                                                 CITY ATTORNEY
                                                                                                                                                                      AMENDING UNIT 2B OF THE CANYON CENTRE CONDOMINIUMS AMENDED #1
                                                                                                                                                                               AND A PORTION OF LOT 1 OF THE CANYON CENTRE
                                                                                                                                                                             LOCATED IN THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 25,
                                                                                                                                                                                       TOWNSHIP 2 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                         SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN




                                                          UNIT 2C SIGN       UNIT 2D & UNIT 2E
                                                          EASEMENT                                                                                                                         UNIT 2A SIGN                                                                               UNIT 2B SIGN
                                                                             SIGN EASEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                           EASEMENT                                                                                   EASEMENT                                                                                                L7
                                                 C11                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S7°41'10"E                                                  L6
                                                                                                                                                    S11°31'30"E 276.331'                                                                                                                        S11°37'08"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       57.983'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  68.897'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             C1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S11°37'08"E 129.455'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                                                    S11°31'30"E 342.730'                                                                                                    L15
                        C15




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               L22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        L14
                  L19

                        L17

                                                                                                     15.00' NO BUILD/                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       UNIT 2B & PROJECT
                                                                                                    PLAZA EASEMENT                                                                                                                                                                                            S11°31'30"E 232.875'                                                                                                          SIGN EASEMENT
                  L18                                                                                                                                                                                                                           L16                                                                                                                                                             L21
                                                                                                      (SEE NOTE 6)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C13
                                                                                                                                                                                                           20.00' NO BUILD/
                                                                                                                                                                                                          PLAZA EASEMENT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C14
                                                                                                                                                                                                            (SEE NOTE 6)




                                                                               NARROWS PLAZA AREA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S78°28'30"W 92.667'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CECRET PLAZA AREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N78°28'30"E 122.333'
                                                                                                                                   NOTE: UNIT 2A PAD OWNERSHIP
                                                                                                                                   EXTENDS OVER THE TOP OF UNIT 2E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .736'
                                                                                                                                   & FIRE RISER COMMON AREA
                                           UNIT 2C                 UNIT 2D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2"W 82
                                                                                                                                                           UNIT 2A
            27'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             UP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  UNIT 2B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               L20
       226.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S87°00'5
           "E
     44'40




                                                                                                                                                                           TRASH ENCLOSURE FOR THE
                                                                                                                                                                           BENEFIT OF UNITS 2D & 2E.
S87°




                                                                                                             UNIT 2E                    FIRE RISER COMMON                  UNIT OWNER RESPONSIBLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        L10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              L9
                                                                                                             (BELOW)                    AREA (BELOW)                       FOR THE CONSTRUCTION AND                                                                                                                                                                           L8                          DN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    UNIT 2B                                              L13      L11
                                                                                                                                                                           ONGOING MAINTENANCE OF                                                                                   SIGN EASEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                           SAID ENCLOSURE                                                                                                                                                                                DN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               L12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        144.167'
                                                                                                                                                                                  N11°31'30"W 437.055'                                                                                                                                                                             L1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   L2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    L3



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N11°31'30"W 81.908'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C5


                                                                                                                        TRASH ENCLOSURE FOR
                                                                                                                        THE BENEFIT OF UNIT 2A.
 N15°27'42"W                                                                                                                      UNIT OWNER                                                                                                                                                            L5
                                        TRASH ENCLOSURE FOR THE
                                                                                                                         RESPONSIBLE FOR THE                                 C6
   60.281'                              BENEFIT OF UNIT 2C. UNIT
                                        OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR                                                              CONSTRUCTION AND
                                        THE CONSTRUCTION AND                                                            ONGOING MAINTENANCE                                                                                                                                                             C4
                                                                                                                           OF SAID ENCLOSURE
                  C10




                                        ONGOING MAINTENANCE OF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C3
                                        SAID ENCLOSURE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C1
                                                                                                                                                                             UNIT 2A & PROJECT                                                                                                                      C2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         L4
                                                                                                                                                                             WAYFINDING
                    N62° 700'




                                                                                                                                                                             SIGN EASEMENT
                       26.
                        45'0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LEGEND
                             3"E




                                                                                                                                                                C7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LIMITED COMMON AREA FOR THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BENEFIT OF UNIT 2A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LIMITED COMMON AREA FOR THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BENEFIT OF UNIT 2B

                                                                                                        C8                                   UNIT 2A & PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LIMITED COMMON AREA FOR THE
                                                                                                                                             WAYFINDING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BENEFIT OF UNIT 2C
                                                                                                      UNIT 2D & UNIT 2E                      SIGN EASEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LIMITED COMMON AREA FOR THE
                                                                                                      SIGN EASEMENT
                                   C9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BENEFIT OF UNIT 2D & 2E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LIMITED COMMON AREA FOR THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BENEFIT OF UNIT 2D
                                                              UNIT 2C & PROJECT
                                                              WAYFINDING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PRIVATE AREA OF UNIT 2B - SEE NOTE 2
                                                              SIGN EASEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROJECT MONUMENT SIGN AREAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AS NOTED

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         COMMON AREA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GRAPHIC SCALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -50            0    25     50          100



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ( IN FEET )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1 Inch = 50 ft.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BENCHMARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Brass cap monument marking the West Quarter corner of Section 25, Township 2 South, Range 1 East,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Salt Lake Base and Meridian.                                                                                                  STATE OF UTAH, COUNTY OF SALT LAKE, RECORDED AND FILED AT THE REQUEST OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Elevation = 5066.34 feet as referenced on the Salt Lake County Surveyor's Monument Reference Sheet,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   measured April 9, 2003.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FLOOD ZONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   The subject property lies entirely within Flood Zone X (unshaded) as designated on FEMA Flood Insurance                                 Date              Time                     Book                Page
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Rate Maps for Salt Lake County, Utah and Incorporated Areas Community Panel No. 456 of 625 Map
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Number 49035C0456G dated September 25, 2009. Flood Zone X (unshaded) is defined as "Areas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   determined to be outside the 0.2% annual chance floodplain."
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Fee$                             Deputy, Salt Lake County Recorder
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AMENDING UNIT 2B OF THE CANYON CENTRE CONDOMINIUMS AMENDED #1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AND A PORTION OF LOT 1 OF THE CANYON CENTRE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LOCATED IN THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 25,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOWNSHIP 2 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN



      A.10                                           A.9                                                                          A.8                                                                                  A.7                                                                              A.6                                                                      A.5                                                                           A.4                                                                    A.3 A.3.1                                          A.2               A.1 A.0.9




                                                                                                                                                   E                                                                                                                             F                                                    G                                                                     H                                                                                                                                                             I


1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1




                                                                      14.51'                                                                       14.91'                                                                                                23.96'




                                                                                                                                                                      7.43'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7.43'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7.43'
                                                     7.57'




                                                                                       7.57'




                                                                                                                                   7.57'
                                                                     110 S.F.                                                                  136 S.F.                                                                                              178 S.F.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4.21'     23.04'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4.35'
                                                                                                                                                   0.89'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.33'
1.8                              2.09'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.88'                    1.44'                                                                                                                               1.82'                                                  1.93'                                     0.71'                                                      1.8
                                                                      14.51'                             13.67'                             14.02' 0.14'                                        14.56'                                                   23.96'                                     9.62'                                                                                                                                 44.67'                                                                                                                     32.27'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.77'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            167 S.F.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10.00'
                              1.57'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.35'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10.32'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3.22'
                                                                                       24.41'                                                        11.75'                     5.00'                7.27'                                       11.73'                          9.60'                                                                                                                 12.22'                        12.23'                                          13.61'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.22'
2                  26.23'                                             1.43'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  20.72'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2
                                                 3.35'                                                                                              1.43'                                           1.43'                  5.13'               1.43'                             1.43'                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.82'                     14.30'                                                     40.35'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8.39'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8.39'
                                                                                                                                                 2.04'                                                                                                                             1.03'                              3.62'                  22.09'




                                                                                                                     12.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              12.00'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.43'




                                                                                                                                   10.57'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           14.14'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.03'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10.92'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        19.88'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3.05'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            18.41'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         27.21'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2.04'




                                                 26.42'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      27.08'
                                                                                                              2.04'


                                        30.07'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.78'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       UNIT 103




                                                                                                                                                                  35.31'




                                                                                                                                                                                                35.31'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         UNIT 101




                                                                                                                                                                           36.02'

                                                                                                                                                                                       36.02'
C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.12'   C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               34.77'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          34.45'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                34.62'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.09'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   11.17'     0.83'




                                                                                                                              16.98'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1,608 S.F.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1,440 S.F.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              UNIT 102




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                43.16'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 16.34'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    11.19'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1,803 S.F.
                                                                                           UNIT 104
        50.95'




                 1,364 S.F.                      2.77'                                            1.41'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6.23'                       1.05'                                                     1.58'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.94'
                                                                                                 2,058 S.F.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.66'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.74'
                                                            4.83'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.24'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6.23'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5.96'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.55'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.55'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7.46'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5.20'
3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6.17'
                                                                                                                           6.97'

                                                                                                                                        6.97'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5.20'
                                 1.43'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.50'             5.71'                                                             1.58'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3.91'
                                                                                                                                                        1.50'                                                                               0.89'                                      0.52'                       0.52'                                      2.66'
                                                                  1.34'                                                                                                                                  8.25'                                                                                                                                                 2.04'                                                              7.52'                                                              28.91'           3.17'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                          10.89'                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8.52'                                                              30.67'




                                                                                                                                                              5.71'
                                                                                                                                                                                  1.50'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.50'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6.42'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5.00'
                                                                                                                   1.41'




                                                                                                                                       5.14'




                                                                                                                                                                      5.71'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.50'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7.29'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7.85'
                                            19.49'




                                                                                                                                                  11.91'                                                   1.50'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           43.57'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           11.82'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               11.64'
                                                     18.45'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        13.05'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          43.15'
                                                                                                                                                   11.91'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              12.72'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.50'                                                                                                                3.08'
D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8.61'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7.19'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.50'                                      13.38'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5.76'
                                                                                                                              12.21'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5.03'                5.03'                 1.23' 1.50'           6.42'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     21.86'            1.23'                                                          11.93'
                                1.43'                                                                    3.39'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5.00'

                                                                                                                                        17.33'
                              1.40'                                                  0.92'                                                                                                                                                                                           47.31'                                                                          5.89'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.50'
                                                                                                                 3.16'


3.7                                                                                   0.62'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.50'
                                                            2.11' 1.43'         21.59' 2.24'                             5.85'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3.7
                                                                                   30.20'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.50'
                                                 5.55'




A                                                                                                                                            2.16'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A
                                        10.11'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.50'
                                                                                                                              6.06'




                                                                                                                                              0.31'                                                                                                                                  48.01'                                                                          5.89'
                                                                                                     3.10' 0.92'                                       11.10'                                                                                                                                                                                             5.00'
                                                 2.77'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4.23'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     21.86'                                                                           11.93'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5.76'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.23'
                                                            2.90'




                                                                                                                                                    12.55'
                                                                                                 3.67'


                                                                                                             3.67'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5.39'                       5.39'            1.23' 1.50'
                                                                                                                                        4.24'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6.42'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.30'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6.46'
                                                                                                                          3.41'




4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7.19'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4.88'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4.88'
                                                                              17.73'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.50'                                      13.38'
                                 1.43'                                                               3.10' 5.74'                                                                                         0.70'                         1.50'                                                                                                                3.08'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4.38'
                                                                                                                                                                           12.69'
                                                              1.34'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   12.72'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5.80'
                                                                                                             1.62'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.04'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.75'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.17'                      0.17'                                                                             0.70'
                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.50'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.71'
                                            14.14'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.50'                     1.50'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6.42'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          15.11'                                                         23.72'                                          0.16'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5.00'
                                                     17.11'




                                                                                                                                                                                                16.03'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8.95'                                                  22.46'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5.16'                                                            1.50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                  16.45'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.50'                 6.42'
                                 1.43'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.23'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     23.25'
                                                                                                                                  26.98'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           28.54'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           14.14'
        55.29'




                                                                                         UNIT 105




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     19.24'
                 1,470 S.F.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               17.80'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               21.68'
                                                                                                2,149 S.F.
                                                           1.43'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           UNIT 106                                                                                                          UNIT 107
                                                                                                                                                                 48.01'
                                                 9.96'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                41.39'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          41.39'
                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.43'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                43.16'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1,805 S.F.                                                                                                       1,830 S.F.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.75'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.39'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                UNIT 108                               1.58'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         36.14'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5.91'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5.91'
                                                                                                                                                                              35.31'




5                                                2.80'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5.27'
                                                                                                               1.93'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2.04'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.51'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.76'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1,490 S.F.
                                        31.04'


                                                            2.96'




                                                                                                             2.04'                                 2.04'                                                                                                          2.04'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       40.15'                                                                         5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2.51'
5.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            14.28'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.54'
                                                 2.80'                                                       1.93'                                                                                                   1.43'                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.39'                                                                                                                            42.62'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.58'
                                                                                                                                      4'




                                                                                                                          2.04'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.04'                                                                                                                                                                                                        5.2
                                                                                                                                   3.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       14.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     11.94'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     15.79'
B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               13.59'
                                                 13.32'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              15.73'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        15.73'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8.67'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10.00'
                                                                                                                                   10.57'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SEE NOTE 6, SHEET
                                                                                                                     12.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.03'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.43'                                                                                                                                                                                           2.26'                                                               1 REGARDING PATIO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3.62'                  21.97'                                                                                                        1.61'                                                                                                                          AND STAIR AREA
                                                                                                                                                 2.04'                                                                                                                             1.03'                                                                                                          0.86'                                                                                          24.85'            1.33'
                              0.76'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3.43'
                                                 3.35'                                                                                             1.43'                                       1.43'                 3.06'                   1.43'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.22'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.43'                                                                                                             1.43'
                   26.23'     0.10'                                  1.43'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   20.50'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.25'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3.25'
                                                                                       24.41'                                                        11.61'                                12.83'                                               13.60'                           9.80'                                                                                                                12.21'                         12.23'                                                          28.14'
6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.23'                                                                                                                                                                      6
                              0.58'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         147 S.F.                                                                                                                                                                                              1.04'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6.81'
                                            2.82'                     13.27'                         13.99'                                 14.19' 0.13'                                  14.18'                                                     24.61'                                      10.15'                             0.96'                   0.96'                                               29.47'                                                                          195 S.F.
                                                                                                                                                    0.03'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.82'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             22.42'         3.58'
                                                          6.83'




                                                                                   6.83'




                                                                                                                                6.83'




                                                                                                                                                                 6.83'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.58'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6.80'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6.80'




                                                                     91 S.F.                                                                                                                                                                        167 S.F.                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4.58'               28.96'
                                                                                                                                               97 S.F.
                                                                      13.27'                                                                    14.19'                                                                                               24.61'




      A.10                                           A.9                                                                          A.8              E                                                                   A.7                                                       F                      A.6                           G                                          A.5                        H                                                  A.4                                                             A.3                         A.3.1          I              A.2                         A.1 A.0.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   STATE OF UTAH, COUNTY OF SALT LAKE, RECORDED AND FILED AT THE REQUEST OF



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Date                    Time                                   Book           Page


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Fee$                             Deputy, Salt Lake County Recorder
                                                                                                                                                                                                           AMENDING UNIT 2B OF THE CANYON CENTRE CONDOMINIUMS AMENDED #1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AND A PORTION OF LOT 1 OF THE CANYON CENTRE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOCATED IN THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 25,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TOWNSHIP 2 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN



          A.10                                    A.9                                                                     A.8                                                                        A.7                                                                              A.6                                                                      A.5                                                                          A.4                                                                       A.3 A.3.1                                                                A.2                       A.1 A.0.9




                                                                                                                                           E                                                                                                                   F                                                    G                                                                     H                                                                                                                                                                                  I


    1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.51'             3.33'                    0.51'
                                                   22.92'                                                                                 14.19'                                                                                   24.60'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    27.37'                                                                            28.58'




                                                                                                                                                                                                    6.80'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6.80'
                                                                                6.94'




                                                                                                                        6.94'




                                                                                                                                                           6.94'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6.94'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6.94'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6.94'
                                   276 S.F.                                                                                            98 S.F.                                                                                    170 S.F.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  209 S.F.                                                                         198 S.F.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8.76'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.14'                              0.14'                                                       3.58'     22.67'         3.72'
    1.8                                                                                                                                     0.14'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.8
                                                              15.98'                           13.99'                              14.19'   0.13'                              14.18'                              0.11'           24.33'             0.11'                    10.07'                             1.04'                    0.91'                                              28.16'                                                              17.05'                                                                                       28.58'                                           15.90'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           151 S.F.                                                                                                                                                          1.82'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3.35'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10.32'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.22'
                                                                                    24.41'                                                  11.61'                             12.83'                                                   25.44'                                                                                                                                       12.22'                        12.23'                                          13.61'                                                                        13.64'                           10.14'                     12.53'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3.22'
    2                                                              1.43'                                                                                                                                                  1.43'                                1.43'                                                        20.72'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2
                                             3.35'                                                                                          1.43'                                 1.43'            3.06'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.82'                     14.15'                                                                            1.25'      1.81'        1.25' 1.25'        2.82'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.03'




                 23.87'
                                                                                                                                         2.04'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8.39'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8.39'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.62'                   22.09'




                                                                                                             12.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12.00'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.43'




                                                                                                                           10.57'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         14.14'
                                  16.93'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.03'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10.92'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3.05'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       27.21'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.04'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  25.97'
                                            26.42'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           30.89'
                                                                                                        2.04'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     27.08'
                          6.94'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.78'




                                                                                                                                                           35.31'

                                                                                                                                                                    35.31'
C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        34.45'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              34.62'
                                                                                                                      16.98'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           UNIT 203                                                                                                                  UNIT 202




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              43.16'
                                                                                                                                                                                                            UNIT 204




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  43.78'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               16.34'
                                  13.80'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1,831 S.F.                                                                                                1,803 S.F.                                                                                                                   1,433 S.F.

                                             2.77'
                                                                            UNIT 205                       1.41'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6.23'                      1.05'                                                          1.44'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           UNIT 201                                                           2.90'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.94'
                                                                                2,049 S.F.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2,220 S.F.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.66'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5.45'
                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.00'
                                                      4.83'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3.24'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6.23'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5.96'
                        5.51'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.55'                                    1.55'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7.46'
    3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.50'                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5.52'                      3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6.17'
                                                                                                                   6.97'

                                                                                                                                6.97'




                                                                                                                                                                                                 5.00'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5.00'
                      0.91'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7.41'
                                                                                                                                                   1.35'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.44'                                                                                                                                        2.39'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3.91'
                       1.43'                                                                                                                                                                                              0.66'                                      0.52'                       0.52'                                      2.66'
                                                           1.34'                                                                                                                13.79'                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5.82'                                                                    28.76'           3.17'                                                                                                            1.48'                     1.42'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.04'                                                                               5.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                17.39'                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8.52'                         1.50'                             30.11'




                                                                                                                                                       5.71'




                                                                                                                                                                                                         5.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6.42'
                                                                                                           1.41'




                                                                                                                               5.14'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5.54'
                                                                                                                                                               5.71'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.50'
                              145 S.F.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7.29'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7.85'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                146 S.F.
                     21.30'




                                                                                                                                                                                         1.50'
                                         19.49'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.74'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           21.99'
                                                                                                                                          11.91'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       17.72'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         11.82'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             11.64'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      13.05'
                                                  20.55'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              20.55'
                                                                                                                                           11.91'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    12.72'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.50'
D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3.08'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   D




                                                                                                                                                                                                  8.61'
                                                                                                                                                                                                            7.19'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.50'                                     13.38'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.74'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5.76'
                                                                                                                      12.21'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5.03'                5.03'                  1.23' 1.50'           6.42'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8.01'
                      1.43'                                                                                                                                                                                                        21.86'            1.23'                                                           11.93'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.55'
                      0.91'                                                                      3.39'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5.00'

                                                                                                                                17.33'
                                                                                  0.97'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.88'
                        5.51'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      47.31'                                                        1.50'             5.89'                                                                                                                                                                         5.88'
                                                                                                         3.21'


    3.7                                                                           0.62'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5.39'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.50'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 22.82'
                                                                           20.16' 2.24'                          5.85'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.44'                           37.41'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3.7
                                  8.78'




                                                                                30.20'                                               2.16'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.44'                            38.83'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8.01'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.50'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5.47'
A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A
                                            5.55'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5.88'
                                                                                                                      6.06'



                                                                                                                                      0.31'                                                                                                                        48.01'                                                        1.50'             5.89'
                                                           2.77'                               3.48' 0.92'                                     11.10'                                                                                                                                                                                    5.00'                                                                                                                                                                                      4.74'
                                                                                    0.89'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.95'




                                                                                                                                                                                             4.23'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   21.86'                                                                            11.93'                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.84'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5.76'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.23'
                                                      2.90'




                                                                                                                                            12.55'
                                                                                                     3.72'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3.06'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5.03'                5.03'                 1.23' 1.50'
                                                                                                                                4.24'




                       5.51'                                                        0.37'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6.42'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5.39'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6.46'
    4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.27'                                                                                                                                 4
                                                                                                                  3.41'




                                                                                                                                                                                                            7.19'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5.82'
                                                                                    2.83'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6.26'
                     1.82'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.50'                                     13.38'                                                                                                                                           0.90'                                                                                                       1.88'
                                                                           17.73'               3.10' 5.74'                                                                         0.70'                                1.50'                                                                                                             3.08'
                      1.43'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.55'




                                                                                                                                                                                                  4.38'
                                                                                                                                                                    12.69'
                                                           1.34'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     12.72'                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.53'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5.80'
                                                                                                        1.62'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.04'                                                                                                                                        1.74'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                114 S.F.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.70'
                              118 S.F.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       13.01'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.52'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           17.28'
                     17.78'


                                         14.14'




                                                                                                                                                                                         1.50'                                                                        0.52'                                                                                                                                                              1.50'                     1.50'




                                                                                                                                                                                                         5.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6.42'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       15.11'                                                           23.51'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5.00'
                                                  17.11'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              17.47'
                                                                                                                                                                                 16.03'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8.95'                                                   22.51'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5.16'                                                             1.50'
                                                                                                                                                                                  16.27'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.50'                 6.42'
                      1.43'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.23'                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.42'
                                                                                                                                                                       5.92'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2.39'
                     1.82'
                                                                                                                          26.98'




                       5.51'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5.52'

                                                                                                                                                                                                         14.14'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     19.24'
                                                                                                                                                               0.18'
                                                                                        UNIT 206                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           UNIT 210




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            17.80'
                                                     1.43'                                   2,149 S.F.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   UNIT 207                                                                                                      UNIT 208                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.42'
                                                                                                                                                           48.01'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2,220 S.F.
                                  12.29'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           13.85'
                                            9.96'




                                                                                                                                                                                         1.43'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                UNIT 209




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9.52'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  43.78'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        40.45'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              43.16'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              40.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1,802 S.F.                                                                                                1,827 S.F.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.39'                                  1,491 S.F.                        1.63'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       36.14'
                                                                                                                                                                                                 5.91'

                                                                                                                                                                                                            5.91'




    5                                        2.80'                                                     1.93'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.09'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.90'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2.51'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.76'
                                                      2.96'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3.17'
                          6.95'                                                                     2.04'                                  2.04'                                                                            14.28'              2.04'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.51'
                                                                                                                                                                    29.40'




    5.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5.81'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3.54'
                                             2.80'                                                    1.93'                                                                                        1.43'                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.39'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.63'                                                                                                               2.90'
                                                                                                                               4'




                                                                                                   2.04'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.04'                                                                                                                                    2.04'                                                                                                 5.2
                                                                                                                           3.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     14.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     11.94'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   15.79'
B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   B
                                  18.16'
                                            13.32'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            15.73'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      15.73'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  13.53'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           17.02'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8.67'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10.00'
                                                                                                                           10.57'
                                                                                                             12.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12.00'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.03'
                 25.09'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.43'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           23.83'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.61'                                                                     2.31'
                                                                                                                                         2.04'                                                                                                                    1.03'                             3.62'                   21.92'                                              0.86'                                                                                           24.85'            1.33'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.43'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.43'
                                             3.35'                                                                                          1.43'                                 1.43'            3.06'                                                        1.43'                                                                                                             1.43'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3.22'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            20.50'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.00'     1.81'      1.00' 1.00'          2.82'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3.35'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.35'
                                                                   1.43'            24.41'                                                   11.61'                            12.83'                                        13.60'                            9.80'                                                                                                                12.21'                         12.23'                                                                                                                        13.64'                           10.14'                    12.53'
    6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.23'           27.00'              2.10'                                                                                                                                                                  6
                                                              15.98'                           13.99'                               14.19'     0.13'                                                                                                                                                                       150 S.F.                                                                                                                                                                                                              12.00'                           16.35'                         14.72'
                                                                                                                                                                               14.18'                                              24.60'                                      10.07'                             1.04'                    1.04'                                              29.30'                                                      0.91'                192 S.F.              0.77'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4.58'
                                                                                                                                               0.14'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4.72'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3.58'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6.81'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6.81'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6.81'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3.58'
                                                                                6.94'




                                                                                                                        6.94'




                                                                                                                                                           6.94'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            22.59'
                                                                                                                                                                                                    6.80'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6.80'




                              285 S.F.                                                                                                    98 S.F.                                                                                 167 S.F.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      28.68'                                                           82 S.F.                                                                               239 S.F.
                                                   22.92'                                                                                 14.19'                                                                                   24.60'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.36'                              12.00'                                                                  20.54'




          A.10                                    A.9                                                                     A.8              E                                                         A.7                                                       F                      A.6                           G                                          A.5                        H                                                 A.4                                                                       A.3 A.3.1                                              I                 A.2                                A.1 A.0.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              STATE OF UTAH, COUNTY OF SALT LAKE, RECORDED AND FILED AT THE REQUEST OF



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Date                                   Time                                         Book    Page


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Fee$                                                Deputy, Salt Lake County Recorder
                                                                                                                                                                                                        AMENDING UNIT 2B OF THE CANYON CENTRE CONDOMINIUMS AMENDED #1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AND A PORTION OF LOT 1 OF THE CANYON CENTRE
                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOCATED IN THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 25,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOWNSHIP 2 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN



          A.10                                    A.9                                                                        A.8                                                                  A.7                                                                              A.6                                                                       A.5                                                                           A.4                                                                     A.3 A.3.1                                                                A.2                          A.1 A.0.9




                                                                                                                                              E                                                                                                             F                                                     G                                                                      H                                                                                                                                                                              I


    1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.51'                3.33'                 0.51'
                                                   22.92'                                                                                 14.19'                                                                                24.60'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      27.37'                                                          14.04'                                                                       21.79'




                                                                                                                                                            6.94'




                                                                                                                                                                                                  6.92'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6.92'
                                                                                6.94'




                                                                                                                           6.94'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6.94'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6.94'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6.94'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6.94'
                           276 S.F.                                                                                                      98 S.F.                                                                               170 S.F.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    209 S.F.                                                      97 S.F.                                                                                        269 S.F.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8.76'
                                                                                                                                                 0.02'                                                                                                                                                         3.70'     22.67'          3.72'
    1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.93'                     0.91'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.8
                                                              15.98'                           13.99'                                  14.19' 0.13'                           14.18'                                            24.60'                                      10.07'                                      151 S.F.                                                             28.16'                                                               17.05'                    1.82'                                           14.04'                            15.59'                             14.85'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             10.32'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3.24'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3.22'
                                                                                    24.41'                                                      11.61'                        12.83'                                     13.60'                             9.80'                                                                                                                  12.22'                         12.23'                                           13.61'                                                                   13.64'                            10.14'                         12.53'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3.22'
    2                                                           1.43'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    20.84'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2
                                             3.35'                                                                                            1.43'                               1.43'          3.06'                1.43'                                  1.43'                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.82'                    14.15'                                                                         1.25'       1.81'           1.25' 1.25'         2.82'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                23.85'
                 23.87'
                                                                                                                                           2.04'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8.39'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8.39'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.03'                             3.62'                   22.09'




                                                                                                                12.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          12.00'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    12.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.43'




                                                                                                                              10.57'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       14.14'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         14.41'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   14.41'
                                  16.93'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            16.92'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.03'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10.92'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3.05'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      27.21'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.04'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   25.97'
                                            26.42'
                                                                                                          2.04'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  27.08'
                          6.94'                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.04'                                                                                                        2.78'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6.94'
                                                                                                                                                                                                          UNIT 304




                                                                                                                                                            35.31'

                                                                                                                                                                     35.31'
C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   UNIT 302                                                                                                                                                                                                             C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     34.45'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           34.62'
                                                                                                                     16.95'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1,801 S.F.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1,433 S.F.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       UNIT 303




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             43.16'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             43.78'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             16.34'
                                  13.80'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            13.97'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1,803 S.F.

                                             2.77'            1.72'
                                                                                        UNIT 305                                      1.41'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6.23'                      1.05'                                                      1.44'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    UNIT 301                                                   2.90'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.94'
                                                              0.08'                          2,049 S.F.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2,220 S.F.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5.45'
                                                                                                                                                                                                  2.00'                                                                                                                                             2.66'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3.24'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6.23'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5.96'
                                                      3.20'



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.55'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.55'
                        5.51'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7.46'
    3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.50'                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5.52'                          3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6.17'
                                                                                                                                                                                                             5.00'
                                                                                                                     6.97'

                                                                                                                                  6.97'
                      0.91'




                                                                                                                                                                                             5.00'
                       1.43'                                                                                                                        1.35'                                                                                                                                                                                 2.66'                                                                          7.41'                                                                     1.44'                                                                                                                                           2.39'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.66'                                                                   0.52'                                                                             3.91'
                                                        1.43'                                                                                                                  13.79'                                                                            0.52'                                                                     2.04'                                                          5.82'                                                                    28.76'           3.17'                                                                                                          1.48'                         1.42'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5.00'
                                                                                                                                                                               17.39'                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8.52'                           1.50'                           30.11'




                                                                                                                                                         5.71'




                                                                                                                                                                                                     5.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                              6.42'
                                                                                                                                       1.41'




                                                                                                                     5.17'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5.54'
                                                                                                                                                                 5.71'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.50'
                              145 S.F.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7.29'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7.85'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 146 S.F.
                     21.30'


                                         19.49'




                                                                                                                                                                                        1.50'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            21.99'
                                                                                                                                             11.91'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.74'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        17.72'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      11.82'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          11.64'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    13.05'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               20.55'
                                                  20.47'




                                                                                                                                              11.91'                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12.72'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.50'                                                                                                                3.08'
D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        D




                                                                                                                                                                                                8.61'
                                                                                                                                                                                                        7.19'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.50'                                     13.38'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.74'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5.76'
                                                                                                                         12.21'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5.03'                5.03'                  1.23' 1.50'            6.42'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8.01'
                       1.43'                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.23'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                21.86'                                                                            11.93'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.55'
                      0.91'                                                                      3.39'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5.00'

                                                                                                                                  17.33'
                                                                                  0.97'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.88'
                        5.51'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   47.31'                                                       1.50'               5.89'                                                                                                                                                                      5.88'
                                                                                                          3.21'


    3.7                                                                           0.62'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.50'                                                                                                                                                                                            1.44'                                                                                            5.39'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              22.82'
                                                                           20.16' 2.24'                           5.85'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          37.41'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.7
                                  8.78'




                                                                                30.20'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.50'                                                                                                                                                                                                                              38.83'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8.01'
                                                                                                                         6.06'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.44'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5.47'
                                                                                                                                       2.16'
A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A
                                            5.47'




                                                                                                                                        0.31'                                                                                                                   48.01'                                                        1.50'              5.89'                                                                                                                                                                         5.88'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4.74'
                                                                                    0.89'      3.48' 0.92'                                        11.10'                                                                                                                                                                              5.00'
                                             2.85'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.84'                                                                                      2.95'




                                                                                                                                                                                            4.23'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                21.86'            1.23'                                                           11.93'
                                                                                                        3.72'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5.76'
                                                                                                                                               12.55'
                                                      3.06'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3.06'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5.03'                5.03'                 1.23' 1.50'
                                                                                                                                  4.24'




                       5.51'                                                        0.37'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6.42'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5.39'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6.46'
    4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3.27'                                                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                                     3.41'




                                                                                                                                                                                                        7.19'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5.76'
                                                                                    2.83'                  5.74'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10.77'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6.26'
                     1.82'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.50'                                     13.38'                                                                                                                                              0.90'                                                  1.31'                                                1.88'
                                                                                                                                                                                   0.70'




                                                                                                                                                                                                4.38'
                       1.43'                                               17.64'               3.10'                                                                                                                1.50'                                                                                                                3.08'                                                                                                                                                                                                           28.07'                   3.10'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3.10'
                                                                                                                                                                     12.69'
                                                           1.43'                                                         1.62'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.53'                         1.55'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   12.72'                                                                                                           1.74'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5.80'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2.04'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.70'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 114 S.F.
                              118 S.F.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.31'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        13.01'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.52'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            17.28'
                                                                                                                                                                                        1.50'
                     17.78'


                                         14.13'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.52'                                                                                                                                                                1.50'                       1.50'




                                                                                                                                                                                                     5.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                              6.42'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      15.11'                                                           23.51'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5.00'
                                                  17.03'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               17.47'
                                                                                                                                                                                16.03'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8.95'                                                   22.51'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5.16'                 1.50'                   6.42'
                                                                                                                                                                                 16.45'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.42'
                      1.43'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.23'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2.39'
                     1.82'
                                                                                                                             26.98'




                       5.51'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5.52'

                                                                                                                                                                                                     14.14'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  19.24'
                                                                                        UNIT 306                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   UNIT 310




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           17.80'
                                                     1.43'                                   2,149 S.F.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  UNIT 307                                                                                                    UNIT 308                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.42'
                                                                                                                                                            48.01'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2,216 S.F.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12.72'
                                  12.29'
                                            9.96'




                                                                                                                                                                                         1.43'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9.52'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             43.78'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     40.50'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             43.16'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           40.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1,803 S.F.                                                                                                  1,827 S.F.

                                                                                                                                       1.93'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.39'                             UNIT 309                            1.63'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      36.14'
                                                                                                                                                                                             5.91'

                                                                                                                                                                                                          5.91'
                                                                                                                                                                     35.31'




    5                                        2.80'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.09'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2.90'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.51'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.76'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1,491 S.F.
                                                      2.96'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3.17'
                          6.95'                                                                     2.04'                                    2.04'                                                                       14.28'              2.04'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6.95'                      5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.51'
    5.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.39'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.54'
                                             2.80'                                                    1.93'                                                                                      1.43'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.04'                                                                  1.63'                                                                                                                    2.90'
                                                                                                   2.04'                                    3.14'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.04'                                                                                                           5.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   14.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  11.94'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 15.79'
B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        B
                                  18.16'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            18.16'
                                            13.32'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         15.73'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   15.73'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   13.53'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8.67'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10.00'
                                                                                                                              10.57'
                                                                                                                12.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          12.00'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    12.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.03'
                 25.09'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                25.09'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.43'                                                                                                                     1.61'                                                                    2.31'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.03'                              3.62'                   21.92'
                                                                                                                                           2.04'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.86'                                                                                          24.85'           1.33'
                                                                                                                                                                                  1.43'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3.43'
                                             3.35'                                                                                                                                               3.06'                                                       1.43'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.00' 1.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3.22'
                                                                                                                                             1.43'                                                                    1.43'                                                                                                                                                      1.43'                                                                                                                                                                                          1.00'      1.81'                               2.82'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         20.62'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3.24'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3.35'
                                                                   1.43'            24.41'                                                     11.61'                         12.83'                                     13.60'                             9.80'                                                                                                                   12.21'                        12.23'                                                                                                                    13.64'                            10.14'                     12.53'
    6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.23'          27.00'            2.10'                                                                                                                                                                          6
                                                              15.98'                           13.99'                             14.19'         0.13'                        14.18'                                            24.60'                                      10.07'                                      150 S.F.                                                                                                                                                                                                            12.27'                            16.08'                            14.86'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.93'                     1.04'                                               29.25'                                                         0.96'             196 S.F.              0.91'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4.71'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4.84'
                                                                                                                                                0.02'
                                                                                6.94'




                                                                                                                           6.94'




                                                                                                                                                            6.94'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6.94'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6.94'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6.94'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         22.59'
                                                                                                                                                                                                  6.92'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6.92'




                              285 S.F.                                                                                                                                                                                         170S.F.                                                                         3.70'                     3.58'                                                                                                                                                                                              85 S.F.                                                                                         277 S.F.
                                                                                                                                            98 S.F.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            28.87'
                                                   22.92'                                                                                   14.18'                                                                              24.60'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2.09'                           12.27'                                                                       21.80'




          A.10                                    A.9                                                                        A.8              E                                                   A.7                                                       F                      A.6                            G                                          A.5                         H                                                 A.4                                                                     A.3 A.3.1                                            I                   A.2                                   A.1 A.0.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         STATE OF UTAH, COUNTY OF SALT LAKE, RECORDED AND FILED AT THE REQUEST OF



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Date                                     Time                                             Book        Page


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Fee$                                                     Deputy, Salt Lake County Recorder
                                                                                                                                         AMENDING UNIT 2B OF THE CANYON CENTRE CONDOMINIUMS AMENDED #1
                                                                                                                                                  AND A PORTION OF LOT 1 OF THE CANYON CENTRE
                                                                                                                                                LOCATED IN THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 25,
                                                                                                                                                          TOWNSHIP 2 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST
                                                                                                                                                            SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN



          A.10        A.9                            A.8                                                                             A.7                                                                  A.6                                                                       A.5                                                                          A.4                                                                        A.3 A.3.1                                                                A.2                     A.1 A.0.9




                                                                        E                                                                                                           F                                                   G                                                                      H                                                                                                                                                                                   I


    1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.51'             3.33'                    0.51'
                                                                                                                                                               24.60'                                                                                                                                                                                                                              27.37'                                                            14.04'                                                                  21.79'




                                                                                                                                     6.92'




                                                                                                                                                                                        6.92'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6.94'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6.94'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6.94'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6.94'
                                                                                                                                                              170 S.F.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            209 S.F.                                                          97 S.F.                                                                                 269 S.F.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8.76'
                                                                                                         0.02'                                                                                                                        3.70'    22.67'            3.72'
    1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.93'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.8
                                                                            0.87'                           14.18'                                             24.60'                               10.07'                                    151 S.F.          0.91'                                               28.16'                                                               17.05'                    1.82'                                               14.04'                           15.59'                        14.85'
                                        44.33'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10.32'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3.24'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3.22'
    2                                                                    11.02'                              11.81'                                   1.43'        25.44'           1.43'                       3.62'                          20.84'                                                     12.22'                         12.23'                                           13.61'                                                                       13.64'                           10.14'                    12.53'                                                            2
                                                                                                             1.17'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.82'                    14.15'                                                                             1.25'     1.81'      1.25' 1.25'         2.82'
                                                                                                                                                                                      1.03'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    23.85'
                                                                                                                                                  1.02'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8.39'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8.39'
                                                                                                         1.17'                                                                                                           3.21'                 22.09'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     12.00'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.43'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              14.14'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                16.92'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.03'




                                                                                                14.23'




                                                                                                                            17.06'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10.92'
                                                                                                                                         15.64'
                 22.25'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.05'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             27.21'
                                                                                                     1.17'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.04'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       25.97'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           27.08'
                                                                            368 S.F.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.78'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6.94'




                                                                                                   1.67'
                                                               33.41'




                                                                                       33.41'
C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C




                                                                                                                                                                                                            34.45'
                                                                                                                                                                                                   34.62'
                                                                                                                                2.04'
                                                                                                     1.17'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    43.16'
                   4.74'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        43.78'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    16.34'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                13.97'
                                                                                                                                             UNIT 404                                                                                               UNIT 403                                                                                                              UNIT 402                                                                                               UNIT 401




                                                                                                18.25'
                               11.60'                                                                                                              1,810 S.F.                                                                                               1,804 S.F.                                                               6.22'                                             1,433 S.F.                                                                                      2,220 S.F.                                                  2.90'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.05'                                                            1.44'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.94'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5.96'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5.44'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.66'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3.24'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.55'                                    1.55'                         6.22'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7.46'
    3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5.52'                          3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6.17'
                                                                         11.02'                                                                                                                                                                                            2.66'                                                             1.50' 7.41'                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.39'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.91'
                      3.32'                                                                                                                                                                                          0.52'                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.44'
                                                                                                                 16.59'                                                                  0.52'                                                                    2.04'                                                          5.82'                                                                    28.76'            3.17'                                                                                                      1.48'                         1.42'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5.00'




                                                                                       7.35'
                                                                                                                 15.89'                                                                                                                                                                                                               8.52'                           1.50'                           30.11'




                                                                                                                                              6.42'
                                                                                                                                      5.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5.54'
                                                                                                5.71'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.50'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7.29'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7.85'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     146 S.F.
                                                                        13.52'                                        1.50'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.74'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                21.99'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            17.72'
                     17.28'




                                                                                                                                                                                                             11.82'
                                                                                                                                                                                                 11.64'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           13.05'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   20.56'
                                                                         13.41'                                                                                                                                                                                                                           12.72'
                                                                                                                                                  1.50'                                                                                                          3.08'
D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D




                                                                                                                                8.61'
                                                                                                                                         7.19'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.50'                                     13.38'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.74'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5.76'
                                                                                                                                                                                            5.03'               5.03'                 1.23' 1.50'             6.42'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8.01'
                                                                                                                                                               21.86'       1.23'                                                        11.93'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.55'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.88'
                                                                                                                                                                                        47.31'                                                      1.50'               5.89'                                                                                                                                                                          5.88'                                                                                                         5.39'
    3.7                       1.43'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.44'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       22.82'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.50'
                                                 24.67'
                                                          22.81'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           37.41'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.7
                 11.59'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            38.83'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8.01'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.50'                                                                                                                                                                                                1.44'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5.47'
A                                                                                                                                                                                       48.01'                                                      1.50'               5.89'                                                                                                                                                                              5.88'                                                                                                                             A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5.00'                                                                                                                                                                                          4.74'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2.95'




                                                                                                                              4.23'
                                                                                                                                                               21.86'                                                                   11.93'                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.84'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5.76'
                              1.43'                                                                                                                                      1.23'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3.06'
                                                                                                                                                                                            5.03'               5.03'                 1.23' 1.50'             6.42'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5.39'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6.46'
    4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.27'                                                                                                                                  4




                                                                                                                                         7.19'




                                                                                                                                                                                                             5.82'
                                                                                                                                                                                                 5.96'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.50'                                     13.38'                                                                                                                                              0.90'                                                                                                    1.88'
                                                                         13.41'                                     0.70'                         1.50'                                                                                                          3.08'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.55'




                                                                                                                                4.38'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12.72'                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.53'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5.80'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.04'                                                                                                                                         1.74'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5.00'
                                                                        13.52'                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.70'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     114 S.F.
                     12.16'




                                                                                                6.90'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            13.01'
                                                                                                                                                                                           0.52'                 0.52'                                                                                                                                        1.50'                       1.50'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                17.28'
                                                                                                                      1.50'




                                                                                                                                              6.42'
                                                                                                                                      5.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             15.11'                                                           23.51'
                                                                                       8.54'



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   17.47'
                                                                                                                 15.89'                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8.95'                                                   22.51'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5.16'                                                             1.50'
                      3.32'                                                                                      16.59'                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.50'                   6.42'                                                                                                                                                                                  1.42'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.23'
                                                                         11.02'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.39'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5.52'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           19.24'
                               11.99'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 17.80'
                                                                                                18.25'




                                                                                                                                             UNIT 405                                                                                               UNIT 406                                                                                                                      UNIT 407                                                                                       UNIT 408                                                    1.42'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                12.72'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       9.52'
                                                                                                                                                   1,813 S.F.                                                                                               1,827 S.F.                                                                                                                    1,491 S.F.                                                                                   2,220 S.F.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        43.78'
                                                                                                                                                                                                            40.45'
                                                                                                                                                                                                   40.31'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    43.16'
                   4.74'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.39'                                                                    1.63'
                                                                                                         1.17'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             36.14'
    5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.90'
                                                                            368 S.F.




                                                                                                                                2.04'                                                                                                                                         2.09'
                                                               33.41'




                                                                                       33.41'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.51'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.76'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.51'
                                                                                                   1.67'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3.18'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6.94'                      5
    5.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.39'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3.54'
                                                                                                         1.18'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2.04'                                                                   1.63'                                                                                                               2.90'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.04'                                                                                                    5.2
                 22.25'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          14.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           11.94'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        15.79'
                                                                                                                                         15.64'




B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            B
                                                                                                                            17.06'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                18.16'
                                                                                                14.23'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       13.53'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8.67'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     12.00'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.03'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    25.09'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.43'                                                                                                                   1.61'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.62'                                                                                                                                                                                              2.31'
                                                                                                         1.17'                                                                                                                                 21.92'                                                  0.86'                                                                                                            1.33'
                                                                                                                                                  1.02'                               1.02'                                                                                                                                                                                                           24.85'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3.43'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.43'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3.22'
                                                                                                           1.17'                                    1.43'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.00'      1.81'      1.00' 1.00'         2.82'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               20.62'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3.24'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3.35'
                                                                         11.02'                              11.81'                                                25.45'           1.42'                                                                                                                  12.21'                        12.23'                                                                                                                        13.64'                           10.14'                    12.53'
    6                                   44.33'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2.23'          27.00'             2.10'                                                                                                                                                                      6
                                                                            0.87'                            14.18'                                            24.60'                               10.07'                                    150 S.F.                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12.27'                           16.08'                        14.86'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.93'                     1.04'                                               29.25'                                                        0.96'              196 S.F.              0.91'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4.84'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4.71'
                                                                                                          0.02'                                                                                                                       3.70'                     3.58'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6.94'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6.94'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6.94'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               22.59'
                                                                                                                                     6.92'




                                                                                                                                                                                        6.92'




                                                                                                                                                              170 S.F.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                28.87'                                                           85 S.F.                                                                              277 S.F.
                                                                                                                                                               24.60'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.09'                               12.27'                                                                21.79'




          A.10        A.9                            A.8                E                                                            A.7                                            F                     A.6                           G                                           A.5                        H                                                 A.4                                                                        A.3 A.3.1                                              I                 A.2                               A.1 A.0.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    STATE OF UTAH, COUNTY OF SALT LAKE, RECORDED AND FILED AT THE REQUEST OF



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Date                                  Time                                         Book        Page


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Fee$                                               Deputy, Salt Lake County Recorder
AMENDING UNIT 2B OF THE CANYON CENTRE CONDOMINIUMS AMENDED #1
         AND A PORTION OF LOT 1 OF THE CANYON CENTRE
       LOCATED IN THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 25,
                 TOWNSHIP 2 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST
                   SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN




                                                                                                                            UPPER ROOF
                                                                                                                                158' - 0"

                                                                                                                           DECK BEARING
                                                                                                                                 153' - 8"


                                                                                                                                   ROOF
                                                                                                                                  152' - 0"




                                                                                                                  11.00'
                                                                                                                                 LEVEL 4
                                                                                                                                  141' - 0"




                                                                                                                  14.00'
                                                                                                                                 LEVEL 3
                                                                                                                                  127' - 0"




                                                                                                                  13.00'
                                                                                                                                 LEVEL 2
                                                                                                                                  114' - 0"




                                                                                                                  14.00'
                                                                                                                                 LEVEL 1
                                                                                                                                  100' - 0"




                                                                                                                  13.00'
                                                                                                                               LEVEL P3
                                                                                                                                 87' - 0"




                                                                 UPPER ROOF
                                                                     158' - 0"

                                                                DECK BEARING
                                                                      153' - 8"
                                                                        ROOF
                                                                       152' - 0"




                                                                      LEVEL 4
                                                                       141' - 0"




                                                                      LEVEL 3
                                                                       127' - 0"




                                                                      LEVEL 2
                                                                       114' - 0"




                                                                      LEVEL 1
                                                                       100' - 0"




                                                                     LEVEL P3
                                                                       87' - 0"



                                                                                   STATE OF UTAH, COUNTY OF SALT LAKE, RECORDED AND FILED AT THE REQUEST OF



                                                                                      Date             Time                    Book            Page


                                                                                   Fee$                    Deputy, Salt Lake County Recorder
AMENDING UNIT 2B OF THE CANYON CENTRE CONDOMINIUMS AMENDED #1
         AND A PORTION OF LOT 1 OF THE CANYON CENTRE
       LOCATED IN THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 25,
                 TOWNSHIP 2 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST
                   SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN




                                                                                                                   UPPER ROOF
                                                                                                                       158' - 0"

                                                                                                                  DECK BEARING
                                                                                                                        153' - 8"
                                                                                                                          ROOF
                                                                                                                         152' - 0"




                                                                                                                        LEVEL 4
                                                                                                                         141' - 0"




                                                                                                                        LEVEL 3
                                                                                                                         127' - 0"




                                                                                                                        LEVEL 2
                                                                                                                         114' - 0"




                                                                                                                        LEVEL 1
                                                                                                                         100' - 0"




                                                                 UPPER ROOF
                                                                     158' - 0"

                                                                DECK BEARING
                                                                      153' - 8"
                                                                        ROOF
                                                                       152' - 0"




                                                                      LEVEL 4
                                                                       141' - 0"




                                                                      LEVEL 3
                                                                       127' - 0"




                                                                      LEVEL 2
                                                                       114' - 0"




                                                                      LEVEL 1
                                                                       100' - 0"




                                                                                   STATE OF UTAH, COUNTY OF SALT LAKE, RECORDED AND FILED AT THE REQUEST OF



                                                                                      Date             Time                 Book               Page


                                                                                   Fee$                    Deputy, Salt Lake County Recorder
                                  AMENDING UNIT 2B OF THE CANYON CENTRE CONDOMINIUMS AMENDED #1
                                           AND A PORTION OF LOT 1 OF THE CANYON CENTRE
                                         LOCATED IN THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 25,
                                                   TOWNSHIP 2 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST
                                                     SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN


         A.10   A.9   A.8   A.7                A.6                    A.5                     A.4   A.3   A.3.1      A.2            A.1    A.0.9


                                                                                                                                                              UPPER ROOF
                                                                                                                                                                     158' - 0"

                                                                                                                                                            DECK BEARING
4.33'                                                                                                                                                                153' - 8"
                                                                                                                                                                       ROOF
                                                                                                                                                                     152' - 0"
11.00'




                                                                                                                                                                    LEVEL 4
                                                                                                                                                                     141' - 0"
14.00'




                                                                                                                                                                    LEVEL 3
                                                                                                                                                                     127' - 0"
13.00'




                                                                                                                                                                    LEVEL 2
                                                                                                                                                                     114' - 0"
14.00'




                                                                                                                                                                    LEVEL 1
                                                                                                                                                                     100' - 0"
13.00'




                                                                                                                                                                   LEVEL P3
                                                                                                                                                                      87' - 0"
10.67'




                                                                                                                                                                   LEVEL P2
                                                                                                                                                                      76' - 4"
10.00'




                                                                                                                                                                   LEVEL P1
                                                                                                                                                                      66' - 4"




                                                                                                                  STATE OF UTAH, COUNTY OF SALT LAKE, RECORDED AND FILED AT THE REQUEST OF



                                                                                                                      Date                Time              Book                  Page


                                                                                                                  Fee$                        Deputy, Salt Lake County Recorder
                         AMENDING UNIT 2B OF THE CANYON CENTRE CONDOMINIUMS AMENDED #1
                                  AND A PORTION OF LOT 1 OF THE CANYON CENTRE
                                LOCATED IN THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 25,
                                          TOWNSHIP 2 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST
                                            SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN



A.10   A.9   A.8   A.7             A.6                     A.5                     A.4   A.3   A.3.1   A.2            A.1   A.0.9
                                                                                                                                                                    UPPER ROOF
                                                                                                                                                                         158' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                         4.33'
                                                                                                                                                                  DECK BEARING
                                                                                                                                                                         153' - 8"




                                                                                                                                                 1.67'
                                                                                                                                                                           ROOF
                                                                                                                                                                         152' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                         11.00'
                                                                                                                                                                         LEVEL 4
                                                                                                                                                                         141' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                         14.00'
                                                                                                                                                                         LEVEL 3
                                                                                                                                                                         127' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                         13.00'
                                                                                                                                                                         LEVEL 2
                                                                                                                                                                         114' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                         14.00'
                                                                                                                                                                         LEVEL 1
                                                                                                                                                                         100' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                         13.00'
                                                                                                                                                                       LEVEL P3
                                                                                                                                                                           87' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                         10.67'
                                                                                                                                                                       LEVEL P2
                                                                                                                                                                           76' - 4"




                                                                                                                                                         10.00'
                                                                                                                                                                       LEVEL P1
                                                                                                                                                                           66' - 4"




                                                                                                       STATE OF UTAH, COUNTY OF SALT LAKE, RECORDED AND FILED AT THE REQUEST OF



                                                                                                             Date             Time                 Book                               Page


                                                                                                       Fee$                         Deputy, Salt Lake County Recorder
                         AMENDING UNIT 2B OF THE CANYON CENTRE CONDOMINIUMS AMENDED #1
                                  AND A PORTION OF LOT 1 OF THE CANYON CENTRE
                                LOCATED IN THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 25,
                                          TOWNSHIP 2 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST
                                            SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN



A.10   A.9   A.8   A.7                A.6                     A.5                        A.4   A.3 A.3.1      A.2            A.1 A.0.9

                                                                                                                                                  UPPER ROOF
                                                                                                                                                         158' - 0"

                                                                                                                                                 DECK BEARING
                                                                                                                                                         153' - 8"
                                                                                                                                                           ROOF
                                                                                                                                                         152' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                         LEVEL 4
                                                                                                                                                         141' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                         LEVEL 3
                                                                                                                                                         127' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                         LEVEL 2
                                                                                                                                                         114' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                         LEVEL 1
                                                                                                                                                         100' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                      LEVEL P3
                                                                                                                                                          87' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                      LEVEL P2
                                                                                                                                                          76' - 4"




                                                                                                                                                      LEVEL P1
                                                                                                                                                          66' - 4"




                                                                                                           STATE OF UTAH, COUNTY OF SALT LAKE, RECORDED AND FILED AT THE REQUEST OF



                                                                                                              Date             Time               Book                  Page


                                                                                                           Fee$                     Deputy, Salt Lake County Recorder
                                  AMENDING UNIT 2B OF THE CANYON CENTRE CONDOMINIUMS AMENDED #1
                                           AND A PORTION OF LOT 1 OF THE CANYON CENTRE
                                         LOCATED IN THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 25,
                                                   TOWNSHIP 2 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST
                                                     SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN
A.10   A.9   A.8            A.7                 A.6                     A.5                       A.4   A.3   A.3.1          A.2          A.1   A.0.9




                                                                                                                                                  UPPER ROOF
                                                                                                                                                        158' - 0"   DECK BEARING
                                                                                                                                                                           153' - 8"
                                                                                                                                                                               ROOF
                                                                                                                                                                             152' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                            LEVEL 4
                                                                                                                                                                             141' - 0"




                   15.17'                                                                                                                                                   LEVEL 3
                                                                                                                                                                             127' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                            LEVEL 2
                                                                                                                                                                             114' - 0"



                   15.17'



                                                                                                                                                                            LEVEL 1
                                                                                                                                                                           100' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                           LEVEL P3
                                                                                                                                                                            87' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                           LEVEL P2
                                                                                                                                                                              76' - 4"




                                                                                                                                                                           LEVEL P1
                                                                                                                                                                              66' - 4"




                                                                                                                      STATE OF UTAH, COUNTY OF SALT LAKE, RECORDED AND FILED AT THE REQUEST OF



                                                                                                                         Date             Time                      Book                 Page


                                                                                                                      Fee$                      Deputy, Salt Lake County Recorder
                            AMENDING UNIT 2B OF THE CANYON CENTRE CONDOMINIUMS AMENDED #1
                                     AND A PORTION OF LOT 1 OF THE CANYON CENTRE
                                   LOCATED IN THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 25,
                                             TOWNSHIP 2 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST
                                               SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN
6   5.2   5   4   3.7   3     2   1.8                                        6         5.2   5   4   3.7             3                              2   1.8




                                         UPPER ROOF                                                                                                              UPPER ROOF
                                             158' - 0"                                                                                                               158' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                DECK BEARING
                                        DECK BEARING
                                                                                                                                                                      153' - 8"
                                              153' - 8"
                                                ROOF                                                                                                                      ROOF
                                               152' - 0"                                                                                                                 152' - 0"




                                              LEVEL 4                                                                                                                   LEVEL 4
                                               141' - 0"                                                                                                                 141' - 0"




                                              LEVEL 3                                                                                                                   LEVEL 3
                                               127' - 0"                                                                                                                 127' - 0"




                                              LEVEL 2                                                                                                                   LEVEL 2
                                               114' - 0"                                                                                                                 114' - 0"




                                              LEVEL 1                                                                                                                   LEVEL 1
                                               100' - 0"                                                                                                                 100' - 0"




                                             LEVEL P3                                                                                                                  LEVEL P3
                                               87' - 0"                                                                                                                  87' - 0"




                                             LEVEL P2                                                                                                                  LEVEL P2
                                               76' - 4"                                                                                                                  76' - 4"




                                             LEVEL P1                                                                                                                  LEVEL P1
                                               66' - 4"                                                                                                                  66' - 4"




                                                                                                           STATE OF UTAH, COUNTY OF SALT LAKE, RECORDED AND FILED AT THE REQUEST OF



                                                                                                              Date             Time              Book                  Page


                                                                                                           Fee$                    Deputy, Salt Lake County Recorder
                            AMENDING UNIT 2B OF THE CANYON CENTRE CONDOMINIUMS AMENDED #1
                                     AND A PORTION OF LOT 1 OF THE CANYON CENTRE
                                   LOCATED IN THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 25,
                                             TOWNSHIP 2 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST
                                               SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN
6   5.2   5   4   3.7   3     2   1.8                                        6         5.2   5   4   3.7             3                             2    1.8




                                         UPPER ROOF                                                                                                               UPPER ROOF
                                             158' - 0"                                                                                                                158' - 0"

                                        DECK BEARING
                                                                                                                                                                 DECK BEARING
                                              153' - 8"
                                                                                                                                                                       153' - 8"
                                                ROOF                                                                                                                    ROOF
                                               152' - 0"                                                                                                               152' - 0"




                                              LEVEL 4                                                                                                                   LEVEL 4
                                               141' - 0"                                                                                                                 141' - 0"




                                              LEVEL 3                                                                                                                   LEVEL 3
                                               127' - 0"                                                                                                                 127' - 0"




                                              LEVEL 2                                                                                                                   LEVEL 2
                                               114' - 0"                                                                                                                 114' - 0"




                                              LEVEL 1                                                                                                                   LEVEL 1
                                               100' - 0"                                                                                                                 100' - 0"




                                             LEVEL P3                                                                                                                  LEVEL P3
                                               87' - 0"                                                                                                                  87' - 0"




                                             LEVEL P2                                                                                                                  LEVEL P2
                                               76' - 4"                                                                                                                  76' - 4"




                                             LEVEL P1                                                                                                                  LEVEL P1
                                               66' - 4"                                                                                                                  66' - 4"




                                                                                                           STATE OF UTAH, COUNTY OF SALT LAKE, RECORDED AND FILED AT THE REQUEST OF



                                                                                                              Date             Time              Book                  Page


                                                                                                           Fee$                    Deputy, Salt Lake County Recorder
              AMENDING UNIT 2B OF THE CANYON CENTRE CONDOMINIUMS AMENDED #1
                       AND A PORTION OF LOT 1 OF THE CANYON CENTRE
                     LOCATED IN THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 25,
                               TOWNSHIP 2 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST
                                 SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN
6   5.2   5                    4    3.7                3                      2       1.8   1




                                                                                                 UPPER ROOF
                                                                                                     158' - 0"



                                                                                                DECK BEARING
                                                                                                      153' - 8"
                                                                                                        ROOF
                                                                                                       152' - 0"




                                                                                                      LEVEL 4
                                                                                                       141' - 0"




                                                                                                      LEVEL 3
                                                                                                       127' - 0"




                                                                                                      LEVEL 2
                                                                                                       114' - 0"




                                                                                  2.33'
                                                                                                      LEVEL 1
                                                                                                       100' - 0"




                                                                                                     LEVEL P3
                                                                                                       87' - 0"




                                                                                                     LEVEL P2
                                                                                                       76' - 4"




                                                                                                     LEVEL P1
                                                                                                       66' - 4"




                                                                                                                   STATE OF UTAH, COUNTY OF SALT LAKE, RECORDED AND FILED AT THE REQUEST OF



                                                                                                                      Date             Time              Book                  Page


                                                                                                                   Fee$                    Deputy, Salt Lake County Recorder
Attachment C
 Recorded Plat
                   MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
                     PLANNING COMMISSION WORK MEETING

                                  Wednesday, January 21, 2026
                                           5:00 p.m.
                                  2277 East Bengal Boulevard
                                    City Council Chambers

ATTENDANCE

Members Present:       Chair Sean Steinman, Vice-Chair Mike Smith, Commissioner Mike
                       Shelton, Commissioner Dan Poulson, Commissioner Lucy Anderson,
                       Commissioner Dan Mills, Commissioner Garry Barnes

Staff Present:         Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; Deputy City
                       Recorder, Cienna Brummel;        Planner III, Maverick Yeh; System
                       Administrator, Alex Earl; Planner I, Emma Glende; Planner III, Sheldon
                       Howa; City Attorney, Shane Topham

Absent:                Alternate Commissioner Rusty Lugo

WORK SESSION

Chair Sean Steinman called the Planning Commission Work Session to order at 5:00 p.m.

1.0    Review Business Session Agenda.

Chair Steinman reviewed the Business Session Agenda and reported that the General Public
Comment period would be followed by two Business Items and the Consent Agenda. The next
Planning Commission meeting will be held on February 24, 2026.

Planner III, Maverick Yeh, reported that item 3.1 was Project CUP-26-001, a request for a
Conditional Use Permit (“CUP”) to operate a home business with clients at 2137 Lorita Way. The
property is zoned R-1-8 Single-Family Residential. The applicant requested approval to perform
non-medical cosmetic services, including cosmetic teeth whitening using over-the-counter vegan
products and cosmetic tooth gem services. The business owner will meet with clients Tuesday
through Saturday between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. and anticipates between two and
four clients per day. Appointments will be staggered to prevent overlapping arrivals and
departures. The proposed use is low impact and not expected to generate noise, odors, or traffic
beyond typical residential activity. Only one client vehicle will be on-site at any time, and no retail
sales, commercial deliveries, or structural modifications were proposed.

Mr. Yeh reviewed the floor plan and site photographs. The business will utilize the first-floor
office area and restroom, as well as a designated parking area. Staff analysis determined that the
use would be incidental and secondary to the primary residential use and consistent with the intent
of the zone, subject to compliance with the Conditions of Approval outlined in the Staff Report.


Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                            1
In response to a question, Mr. Yeh reported that the applicant had indicated that she can
accommodate a maximum of four clients per day, and there will be a buffer between appointment
times. That was not specified in the conditions, but language could be added to Condition 3 to
limit the number of clients per day. Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung,
suggested that clients be limited to one at a time.

Commissioner Lugo expressed concern about opening the door for other businesses in the
neighborhood and asked if it was in opposition to the City’s economic development plan.
Mr. Spung clarified that home occupations are allowed as a conditional use. If any potential
negative impacts can be reasonably mitigated, the Planning Commission is required to approve the
application.

Commissioner Mills asked about the mechanism for handling potential complaints. Mr. Spung
reported that the CUP establishes the rules that must be followed to operate the home occupation.
If the applicant does not follow the rules, the CUP and business license can be modified or revoked.

Item 3.2 was Project CUP-25-005. City Attorney, Shane Topham, reported that the item is the
first step in a process that will take at least one year to complete. An application has not yet been
made for the Certificate of Appropriateness for demolition, which will be considered by the City
Council.

Mr. Spung stated that the request was to demolish the Old Mill structure at 6851 South Big
Cottonwood Canyon Road, and the item would be discussed but not decided upon in the Business
Meeting. The application would be reviewed by the Planning Commission, after which the
applicant would present information and answer questions. A public hearing would then be
conducted prior to the Planning Commission determining next steps. Cottonwood Heights
Municipal Code (“CHMC”) §19.86.040 requires a one-year waiting period before action can be
taken on the CUP. That time can be used to collect information, answer questions, and perform a
more in-depth review of the application and relevant sections of the CHMC. However, there are
no requirements for additional meetings or public hearings.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Barnes, Mr. Topham clarified that the ordinance
requires a one-year waiting period to provide time to gather information and make a considered
decision. The waiting period is not optional.

Mr. Spung reported that the structure is designated as a historical site in CHMC §19.86.020(A)(1),
which triggers additional review criteria. A Certificate of Appropriateness from the City Council
is required in addition to the CUP from the Planning Commission. The applicant cannot apply for
the Certificate of Appropriateness until the one-year waiting period is complete and a CUP is
issued, and the Council has four months from the time the complete application is received to make
a decision. The application could theoretically be made earlier, but Staff would advise them to
wait until the Planning Commission had made its decision.

In response to a question, Mr. Spung reported that the Appeals Officer denied a variance request
to waive the 12-month waiting period.



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                          2
CHMC §19.86.040, Noncomplying Conditional Uses, states:

The Planning Commission shall not approve a Conditional Use for a historic site which would be
contrary to the purposes of this chapter by adversely affecting the architectural significance, the
historical appearance, or the educational and historical value of the site unless all the following
conditions have been met:

       1.      The application meets the requirements for a conditional use permit set forth in
               Chapter 19.84, “Conditional Uses”;

       2.      The application meets all the requirements of the base zone in which the property
               is located; and

       3.      The application has been pending before the Planning Commission for a period of
               at least one year.

Mr. Spung reported that specific review criteria was included in the Staff Report. Additionally, as
the use is required to comply with the intent, spirit, and regulations of the entire CHMC, the
Planning Commission can also consider §19.86, Historic Preservation.

In response to a question, Mr. Spung stated that after the one-year waiting period and four-month
City Council review period, the applicant will need to apply for a building permit and any other
required permits. Conditions can be placed on the CUP when the motion is made in January 2027,
but they can be discussed at any time.

Staff recommended that the item be continued to a future date and asked that the Planning
Commission inform them as to how often they would like to meet to discuss the application.
Commissioner Anderson remarked that the project is very complex and suggested that it be
discussed at every meeting. Chair Steinman stated that the Commission should establish
milestones to better understand what data needs to be collected to make an informed decision.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Barnes, Mr. Topham reported that the site has
been on the list of Historic Structures since Title 19 was adopted in 2005, and it was on Salt Lake
County’s list of Historic Structures prior to the City’s incorporation. Mr. Spung added that it was
listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1971.

Commissioner Mills asked if the site’s inclusion on the National Register had any bearing on the
decision. Staff will research any potential affect the National and State registers may have on the
City’s review process.

Commissioner Mills stated that seismic studies for the site and any adjacent properties would also
be helpful. Mr. Spung stated that seismic data would be required for new developments. The
applicant can be asked to provide information if a reason is provided as to why it would affect the
Planning Commission’s decision. Commissioner Mills stated that historical studies should be
available, although they may not be accurate. Commissioner Shelton questioned if discovery of a



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                        3
fault at the site would impact the CUP to demolish the building. Mr. Spung reviewed the list of
studies included in the Staff Report and indicated that the applicant can be asked about specific
studies during the Business Meeting.

In response to a question from Commissioner Shelton, Mr. Topham stated that the City did not
condemn the property. Staff could research which entity condemned it, the reasons for
condemnation, and whether it was condemned prior to being designated a Historic Site by
Cottonwood Heights. Chair Steinman requested information on any additional oversight that
would be necessary if it had been condemned pre-designation, as well as what work would be
required to issue a Certificate of Occupancy. Mr. Topham stated that he was aware of structures
that were condemned, but later the problems were cured, and the structure became habitable. He
believes that the City Council will want to conduct its own study of the structure to verify its
condition and determine if it can be restored.

Chair Steinman stated that, to his recollection, the property was subject to a $500 per day fee for
not curing maintenance and safety issues. Mr. Topham stated that he did not recall any fees being
collected, but it was a question for Code Enforcement.

Commissioner Barnes asked if the County would have any jurisdiction if it had condemned the
property. Mr. Topham clarified that it is a City issue.

In response to a question, Mr. Topham stated that he was unsure of the City’s liability exposure if
it does not allow the owner to demolish an unsafe structure and an accident occurs. Commissioner
Mills stated that the Historic Structure was not adequately maintained. Commissioner Smith stated
that the City adopted the County Code and added the section on maintenance. If the property was
condemned and no longer habitable prior to that time, that means it was already in a state of
disrepair when the City incorporated.

Chair Steinman asked about the protocol to add structures to the City’s Historic Registry and how
a private party can be required to maintain a condemned building. He believes understanding the
structure’s history is an important consideration. The Planning Commission also needs to ensure
that the building is being treated comparably to the Butler School Teachers' Dormitory. He loves
the Old Mill and would like to see it preserved, but it is important to consider property rights. They
should also consider who could take on the potential $50-million liability of retrofitting the
structure.

Chair Steinman believes it is important to understand the process because the City could
hypothetically face a similar issue if the Butler School Teachers Dormitory is sold and found to
have so much deferred maintenance that it is also condemned.

Mr. Topham stated that the structures in CHMC §19.86 were transferred from Salt Lake County
code. When the City was formed, the City Council directed him to draft zoning ordinances to
mimic County ordinances as closely as possible. Adding or subtracting structures would be done
via a Text Amendment. The Planning Commission would review the proposed change and make
a recommendation to the City Council, which would then make the final decision.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                           4
Mr. Spung encouraged the Commission to refrain from speculating. They would have a year to
collect and review information prior to making their decision. He then reviewed the current list of
questions and concerns.

    •   How do the national and state historic designations affect the City’s review and decisions?
    •   Provide more seismic information with regard to fault lines and how that might affect the
        structure’s future.
    •   When was the structure condemned and why? Provide associated documentation.
    •   What has the City done historically to enforce the Historic Preservation Code standards?
    •   Is there any City liability in regard to the property?
    •   When was the maintenance clause added to City code?
    •   Provide more history on the structure and differences in City and County code.
    •   Detail the specific process by which a Historic Structure is designated in the City.

Commissioner Mills stated that all the City’s Mayors have spoken with potential large donors, all
of whom declined the project. The Mayors have tried to pursue preservation without success. He
asked that those efforts be documented, as members of the public are concerned that no effort was
made toward preservation. He also asked that the applicant speak to previous efforts to turn the
structure into a public performing arts space. He believes it is important that the public understands
the City is not in a fiscal situation to take on a multimillion-dollar project, and efforts to find other
funding sources have failed. Mr. Spung stated that he will defer to the applicant to provide the
bulk of the requested information.

Chair Steinman stated that the City should also detail the steps it has taken to enforce protective
maintenance requirements. Mr. Topham stated that he could not recall an enforcement discussion,
and he had not been privy to a discussion of the property being condemned prior to the City’s
incorporation.

Commissioner Mills stated that the City Council adopted CHMC §15.15 in May 2024, which
imposed new standards of appropriateness. Mr. Topham stated that the standards were imposed
due to a situation in Salt Lake City. A developer began demolishing a historic church building on
a weekend, and demolition was halted after the vestibule had been destroyed. The City Council
was concerned about a similar situation occurring in Cottonwood Heights, and the standards were
adopted to ensure that any unauthorized demolition could be stopped quickly. Language from the
Salt Lake City ordinance was adopted almost verbatim as CHMC §15.15. The decision was made
to put the Certificate of Appropriateness process before the City Council to separate it from the
CUP process.

Chair Steinman asked about the legal process of condemning a property. Mr. Topham stated that
the City has never condemned a property, but it would involve the Building Official and inspection
of the property. He does not know if the City received a file on the structure from Salt Lake County
when Cottonwood Heights was formed.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                              5
2.0    Use Table Update.

Mr. Spung reported that Staff was working to clean up existing City Code. Prior to coming to
Cottonwood Heights, he consulted with cities and counties on updating their land use codes, and
many areas of the City’s current code need to be clarified or cleaned up. For example, each zoning
district has a list of permitted and conditional uses, but the Neighborhood Commercial Zone has
no permitted uses. That creates an administrative burden because all business license applications
require a conditional use review, which is expensive for the applicant and time-consuming for
staff.

Planning Department staff is now in the process of updating the code to better reflect the City’s
current needs. The first step in the process was to extract information from the current code into
a table that can be sorted and categorized. In doing so, they found issues like accessory buildings
are referred to by six different terms and convenience stores by five. Some uses are not defined,
which can make it difficult to properly categorize a business. The next step will be to draft the
missing definitions and reconcile naming conventions. The updated Use Table will provide easy
access to all information. Any standards associated with a specific use will be in its own section.
For example, if pawn shops are allowed in parts of the City, it will indicate where they are allowed,
what type of review is required, and the specific standards that apply to the use. The final Use
Table will be more user-friendly and business-friendly.

3.0    Adjourn.

Commissioner Anderson moved to ADJOURN the Work Session. Commissioner Smith
seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Work Session adjourned at 5:59 p.m.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                          6
                    MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
                     PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS MEETING

                                 Wednesday, January 21, 2026
                                          6:00 p.m.
                                 2277 East Bengal Boulevard
                                   City Council Chambers

ATTENDANCE

Members Present:       Chair Sean Steinman, Vice-Chair Mike Smith, Commissioner Mike
                       Shelton, Commissioner Dan Poulson, Commissioner Lucy Anderson,
                       Commissioner Dan Mills, Commissioner Garry Barnes

Staff Present:         Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; Deputy City
                       Recorder, Cienna Brummel;        Planner III, Maverick Yeh; System
                       Administrator, Alex Earl; Planner I, Emma Glende; Planner III, Sheldon
                       Howa; City Attorney, Shane Topham

Absent:                Alternate Commissioner Rusty Lugo

BUSINESS SESSION

Chair Sean Steinman called the Planning Commission Business Meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.

1.0    Welcome and Acknowledgements

       1.1       Ex Parte Communications and Conflicts of Interest to Disclose.

There were no Ex Parte Communications or Conflicts of Interest disclosed.

2.0    General Public Comment

Chair Steinman reviewed the commenting rules. There were no public comments. The Public
Comment period was closed.

3.0    Business Items

       3.1       Project CUP-26-001 – The Planning Commission will Review and
                 Take Possible Action on a Conditional Use Permit Request by Maylene Rowe
                 to Operate a Home Business with Clients, Providing Non-Medical, Non-
                 Dental, Cosmetic-Only Teeth Whitening and Tooth Gem Services, at 2137
                 Lorita Way.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                   7
Planner III, Maverick Yeh presented the Staff Report and indicated that the applicant, Maylene
Rowe, had requested a CUP to operate a Home Business with clients at 2137 Lorita Way. The
property is zoned R-1-8 Single-Family Residential.

The applicant requested approval to provide non-medical cosmetic teeth whitening services and
cosmetic tooth gem services in their home. The business owner will meet with clients by
appointment only, Tuesday through Saturday, between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., with
a maximum of four appointments per day. Arrival and departure times will be controlled to
minimize traffic impacts, and only the client will be on-site at any given time. The proposed use
is low impact, and Staff does not expect it to generate noise, odors, or traffic beyond typical
residential activity. No retail sales, commercial deliveries, or structural modifications were
proposed.

 A floor plan and site photographs were reviewed. The business will be operated in a room on the
first floor, and clients will also have access to a first-floor restroom. Client parking will be in the
driveway, which is wide enough to accommodate ingress and egress in addition to the parking
area.

Mr. Yeh reported that one public comment was received in response to the public notice. That
comment was forwarded to the Planning Commission for review.

Staff analysis determined the following:

   •   The subject property is located in the R-1-8 (Single-Family Residential) Zone, and Home
       Occupations with clients are allowed as a Conditional Use in the R-1-8 zone pursuant to
       CHMC §19.26.030.E.
   •   The proposed use is an appointment-only, owner-operated Home Occupation providing
       non-medical cosmetic services within an existing residence.
   •   The business will operate entirely indoors and will not include exterior signage, retail
       activity, or outdoor use.
   •   Staff found the use to be incidental and secondary to the primary residential use and
       consistent with the intent of the zone, subject to compliance with the Conditions of
       Approval outlined in the Staff Report.

Recommended Conditions of Approval:

       1.      The applicant shall obtain and maintain a valid Cottonwood Heights business
               license for the duration of the home occupation.

       2.      All client parking shall be accommodated off-street within the existing driveway.
               The business shall not rely on on-street parking, and clients must be informed of
               this restriction.

       3.      The home occupation shall operate by appointment only and be limited to the hours
               of 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m., Tuesday through Saturday, as described in the
               applicant’s written materials in the official project file.


Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                            8
       4.     The business shall be limited to non-medical cosmetic services as described in the
              application. No medical, dental, or invasive procedures shall be conducted on the
              premises.

       5.     The home occupation shall be owner-operated, with no additional employees, and
              shall remain clearly incidental and secondary to the residential use of the property.

       6.     No exterior signage, outdoor activity, retail display, or alteration to the exterior
              appearance of the residence is permitted in connection with the home occupation.

       7.     Approval of this Conditional Use Permit is subject to review or revocation upon
              complaint or evidence of non-compliance with the Conditions of Approval or
              applicable City codes.

       8.     Any expansion or change in the scope of the business, including hours of operation,
              number of clients, services offered, or parking arrangements, shall require
              additional City review and approval.

       9.     Prior to issuance of a City business license, the applicant shall provide
              documentation demonstrating compliance with any applicable Salt Lake County
              Health Department requirements and/or State of Utah professional licensing
              requirements, as determined by the appropriate regulatory agencies.

Chair Steinman reported that the Planning Commission discussed additional conditions during the
Work Meeting, including limiting the business to one client at a time.

The applicant, Maylene Rowe participated online. She indicated that she can only use one light at
a time, and clients will be seen one at a time by appointment only.

Chair Steinman opened the public hearing. There were no comments. The public hearing was
closed.

Commissioner Mills moved APPROVE Project CUP-26-001 based on the Findings and
Recommendations listed in the Staff Report dated January 21, 2026, as amended to indicate that
only one client is allowed at a time, with a maximum of five clients daily. Commissioner Smith
seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner Mills-Yes; Commissioner Smith-Yes;
Commissioner Shelton-Yes; Commissioner Anderson-Yes; Commissioner Barnes-Yes;
Commissioner Lugo-Yes; Chair Steinman-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

       3.2    Project CUP-25-005 – The Planning Commission will Hold a Public Hearing
              and Review a Request from Doug Shelby for a Conditional Use Permit for the
              Demolition of a Historic Structure (Cottonwood Paper Mill) at 6851 South Big
              Cottonwood Canyon Road.

Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung, reported that the purpose of the



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                        9
agenda item was to introduce the application to the Planning Commission and review the
Commission’s decision-making authority as pertains to the request. The applicant was present to
present information and answer questions. The meeting was noticed as a public hearing. After
hearing public comment, he asked that the Planning Commission provide feedback to inform the
City’s next steps in the review process.

Mr. Spung reported that per CHMC §19.86.040, a one-year waiting period is required prior to the
Planning Commission taking action on the item. The soonest a decision can be made is January 21,
2027.

Photographs of the structure were displayed. The property’s current General Plan land use
designation is Mixed Use, and it is zoned Regional Commercial.

The applicant requested to demolish the Old Mill Historic Structure as they claim the structure is
an imminent danger to public safety and structurally unsalvageable due to extensive deterioration
and failure to meet modern building codes. As part of the application, the following supporting
materials were provided:

   •   1996 Carl Eriksson, Salt Lake County Engineer and Chief Building Officer, Statement;
   •   2022 Reavely Engineering Report– Structural Condition Assessment;
   •   2022 Gilson Engineering Report – Structural Assessment of the Feasibility of Restoration;
   •   2024 Gilson Engineering Report – Cost to Mitigate; and
   •   2024 Engineering Review Commissioned by Cottonwood Heights.

The structure is designated as a Historical Site in CHMC §19.86.020(A)(1), and as such the
following are required prior to demolition:

   •   A Certificate of Appropriateness from the City Council as outlined in CHMC §15.15.040.
   •   A Conditional Use Permit from the Planning Commission as outlined in CHMC
       §19.86.030.

CHMC §19.86.040, Noncomplying Conditional Uses, states:

The Planning Commission shall not approve a Conditional Use for a historic site which would be
contrary to the purposes of this chapter by adversely affecting the architectural significance, the
historical appearance, or the educational and historical value of the site unless all the following
conditions have been met:

       1.      The application meets the requirements for a conditional use permit set forth in
               Chapter 19.84, “Conditional Uses”;

       2.      The application meets all the requirements of the base zone in which the property
               is located;

       3.      The application has been pending before the Planning Commission for a period of
               at least one year.


Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                       10
Mr. Spung reported that the Staff Report includes specific City and State review criteria that will
be discussed by the Planning Commission to assess whether the information provided by the
applicant would justify a positive or negative motion. The Planning Department recommended
that the Planning Commission continue the item to a future date for further consideration for the
following reasons:

       1.      In accordance with CHMC §19.86.040(C), the Conditional Use Permit application
               must be pending before the Planning Commission for at least one year before
               formal action.

       2.      The applicant submitted detailed engineering reports and proposed mitigation
               measures for the demolition which must be thoroughly reviewed and evaluated by
               City Staff and the Planning Commission. The City may also wish to commission
               its own survey.

       3.      Further discussion regarding the impact on the community and the City’s historic
               preservation goals to ensure compliance with adopted laws and ordinances.

Chair Steinman stated that most of the Planning Commission’s questions for Staff were discussed
during the Work Session. He then invited the applicant to speak.

Attorney Dan Hemmert spoke on behalf of the applicant. They understood that the meeting would
initiate a yearlong process, and they planned to engage with members of the community and the
Planning Commission during that time. They also understood that the structure is beloved by the
community. The property had been in the family since construction, but it was at the point where
they believed it is a dangerous public nuisance. The structure is unsound, and they cannot bear
the expense of making it safe.

Chair Steinman asked Mr. Hemmert to explain why they believe the building to be structurally
unsafe. Mr. Hemmert stated that the property has never been formally condemned. The building
was constructed in the early 1900s as a paper mill. It has been used as a haunted house and in
films, but it has never been a financially viable operation. The building was not constructed with
a foundation. The family has tried to maintain and preserve the structure, but a flood in the 1980s
made it structurally unsound. As it continued to deteriorate, the family grew concerned that a wall
would fall down and injure someone. They invited a County engineer to survey the property and
hired engineering firms to determine what could be done to preserve the structure. Cost estimates
to restore and preserve the structure are as high as $100 million.

Mr. Hemmert stated that the structure is an attraction, and the family is concerned that its walls
will fall down and someone will die. They had offered the structure to the City in the past, but it
did not want to accept the associated liabilities and costs. They believe the best mechanism to
preserve the Old Mill is to tear it down and preserve elements of the structure for inclusion in the
new Town Center. Additionally, they hope to create a plaque in partnership with the Daughters
of Utah Pioneers. The Cottonwood Heights Historic Committee recommended digitally
preserving the building in an exhibit alongside the preserved physical elements. The applicant



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                        11
believes that is the safest and best way to preserve the building while eliminating a dangerous
public nuisance.

Chair Steinman asked what steps the applicant had taken to preserve the space since it was placed
on the National Register of Historic Places in 1971, as well as any potential benefits the owner had
received from that status. Mr. Hemmert reported that it was placed on the Utah Registry of Historic
Places in 1966 by the Daughters of Utah Pioneers. It is an honorific designation.

Mr. Hemmert provided the following timeline for the structure:

   •   1970s: The structure was rented as a haunted house throughout the decade by various
       charities. The charity that rented the space retained all proceeds.
   •   A sportsmen’s club was proposed, but that proposal did not move forward.
   •   1972: A reception center was proposed, but that proposal also failed to go forward.
   •   1974: The County proposed to purchase the Old Mill, but the bond initiative was defeated.
   •   1975: Septic tank issues were discovered.
   •   1976: A restaurant, ski hostel, and other businesses were proposed, but the building was
       deemed unsuitable for each use.
   •   1978-1979: The site was renovated, including the parking lot, grounds, fencing, curb and
       gutter, and interior furniture and fixtures. The structure was tuckpointed in areas where
       mortar was missing, and drywall and insulation were redone.
   •   1979: The Old Mill Disco opened briefly.
   •   1979-1982: An arts and crafts business operated during the summer, and it was rented as a
       party venue at other times.
   •   Numerous fundraisers were conducted over the years.
   •   1983: Septic tank issues were discovered.
   •   1984: Major wall damage occurred due to flooding. One wall moved six inches.
   •   Various events were held in the building after 1984. There were also several offers to
       purchase the building that fell through.
   •   Pre-COVID, there was an effort to turn the building into a public performing arts center.
       That effort stalled during COVID, and the center was then opened in a different location.
   •   Post-COVID, other venues were proposed but did not come to fruition. The structure
       became less safe, and engineers were brought in to determine what would be required to
       stabilize the structure. The family then engaged with the City to determine next steps.
       They also reached out to various preservation groups for help in preserving the site, but
       those efforts failed. The family then made the decision to request permission to demolish
       the structure.

Chair Steinman asked if the property was occupied between 1984 and 2020. Mr. Hemmert
reported that some fundraisers were held during that time, but there were no long-term tenants.
Chair Steinman asked how the protective maintenance requirement had been met during that time.
Mr. Hemmert stated that the property is under constant monitoring, but he did not know what
specific actions were taken. He would research the matter and provide that information to Staff.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                        12
In response to a question, Mr. Hemmert stated that he did not know whether the building sustained
any damage during the 2020 earthquake, but he was not aware of the earthquake having a big
impact on the structure.

Commissioner Mills asked if the property owner was still open to gifting the property. Mr.
Hemmert stated that the applicant is open to discussing anything, but they find it untenable to
remain in their current state of limbo.

Chair Steinman opened the public hearing.

Mike Young stated that the current condition of the Old Mill is ample evidence of the lack of
stewardship the owners have given their property over decades. In contrast, you can see superb
stewardship of virtually all of the 151 single-family homes adjacent to Big Cottonwood Canyon
Creek and the Old Mill. He and his wife have lived in their home 1,028 feet from the Old Mill for
30 years. Much of their life savings is invested there, and his son purchased a home down the
street four years ago, so it is personal to his family. Demolition of the Old Mill is an initial step
in the future development of the canyon. The current owner will be long gone, and the 151 single-
family home owners will have to live with the results for generations to come. The owners of the
Old Mill have not been held accountable in the past, and there was no reason to think that they
would exhibit accountable stewardship in the future. He does not believe they have the
community’s best interests at heart in any way. It is up to the Planning Department Staff, Planning
Commission, City Council, and Mayor Bennion to make sure that the one-of-a-kind area of
Cottonwood Heights is preserved, developed, and enhanced with serious consideration for safe
evacuation in the case of wildfire, protection of the creek and drinking water, and all the single-
family homes that complement the unique area of Cottonwood Heights.

Jim Kichas stated that he is a resident of District 3 and Chair of the Cottonwood Heights Historic
Committee. He then read a statement that was drafted by the Committee and shared with the
Mayor and City Council after meeting with the property owners in August 2024 and evaluating
public comments gathered through November of 2024.

“The Cottonwood Heights Old Mill holds a significant place in our City's history and enjoys
widespread recognition and affection from the community. However, its current state of disrepair
has led the property owners to propose its demolition and redevelopment. While the Historic
Committee acknowledges the concerns raised by the property owners regarding the building's
condition and restoration costs, we also recognize a strong public opposition to demolition and the
historic value of the structure.

The Cottonwood Heights Historic Committee recommends the following:

       1.      Prioritize preservation. The Historic Committee recommends that all efforts be
               made to preserve the Cottonwood Heights Old Mill. The City should explore
               available funding sources and partnership opportunities that could
               help facilitate the remediation and ongoing maintenance of this beloved landmark.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                         13
       2.      Reject expedited demolition. We strongly recommend rejecting any proposals that
               would allow for an expedited demolition process. The building's long history of
               neglect necessitates careful consideration of all preservation and documentation
               options before any irreversible action is taken.

       3.      Enforcement of existing ordinances.           The Committee urges a thorough
               investigation into why the existing City Ordinance 19.86.045 regarding the
               protection and upkeep of the Old Mill has not been consistently enforced.
               Addressing this issue will be crucial in preventing similar situations in the
               future. Preservation of the Old Mill should be the highest priority at this moment
               when the structure still has a chance to be saved.

In the event that it is determined that the Old Mill will be demolished, the Historic Committee
recommends the following:

       1.      Comprehensive documentation. If demolition becomes unavoidable, the Historic
               Committee recommends that a thorough videographic record of the building's
               interior and exterior be created. The record should become the property of the City
               and be included in the City's digital archives to preserve the mill's memory for
               future generations.

       2.      A meaningful memorial. In the event of demolition, we recommend that a
               memorial be established that is accessible to all residents of Cottonwood Heights.
               The memorial should appropriately honor the mill's historic significance, and a
               clear plan for its ongoing care and upkeep should be established.

Opportunities like this provide us a rare moment to reflect on our community values and links in
the chain that we want to leave behind. Ensuring that this chain remains unbroken for future
residents of Cottonwood Heights is something in which every citizen, elected official, committee,
and commission has a part to play.

Anthony Ithurralde stated that he is a resident of Sundown Avenue. He believes the City should
find a way to save one of the oldest historic properties in the area. Areas of the City that were
inspired by and named after the Old Mill include the Old Mill Golf Course, Old Mill Village, Old
Mill Campus, Old Mill Park, Old Mill Corporate Center, Old Mill Circle, Old Mill Office, Old
Mill Estates, Old Mill Medical Office, and Old Mill Point. If European cities found a way to
restore castles and churches that were bombed out during World War II, Cottonwood Heights can
restore a mill from the 1800s.

Shawna Bland is a resident of Old Mill Estates. She had trouble listening to how the owners are
sad that the building is now dilapidated when they did not do anything to take care of it. It was
discouraging to look at pictures of how beautiful it once was. She drives past the property every
day. The owners recently erected a fence and security cameras, but for years they let it become
dilapidated and covered in graffiti. She believes that was done intentionally to provide justification
for tearing it down to build townhomes and condominiums. The road will not handle so many
homes, and she is concerned about being able to evacuate in the event of a fire. She does not



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                          14
believe it is fair that residents will be forced to live with the consequences of the property owner’s
actions. The state of the Old Mill is a tragedy, but it is the owner's fault.

Alan Brown stated that he can see the Old Mill from his house. The owner of the historical paper
mill known as the Old Mill requested to demolish it and build high-density homes was a very
sad day for the City. They showed blatant disregard for a 143-year-old building that has gone
through fire and rebuilds throughout its life, but still stands even after an earthquake. Cottonwood
Heights shows love for its history with markers throughout the City, but the Old Mill is the only
historical structure that is still standing. The city book has a photo of has the Old Mill, and there
is one on the wall. It means something to the City.

The property owner wants to destroy the Old Mill to build high-density housing, but Mr. Brown
believes it should be open space so that everybody can enjoy it. The area does not have the
capability to handle the traffic. During ski season, residents cannot get out of their subdivisions.
The area should only have single-family homes. He believes the City should do more research
and save the building. The Shelbys have disregarded it for years. He moved to Cottonwood
Heights when it was first incorporated in 2005, and nothing has been done to the building since
that time. In the past year, the owner installed cameras and painted over the graffiti, but only
because he wants to demolish a mill that was built with discarded granite from the Salt Lake City
Temple. It frustrates him to hear the property owner say that he has done something, because he
has not done anything for 20 years. Mr. Brown asked the Planning Commission to look at better
options for the historical site and not approve a permit to destroy the building.

Robyn Taylor-Granda spoke on behalf of Preservation Utah, a nonprofit organization that serves
all of Utah. She has been a resident of Cottonwood Heights for over 20 years. The City’s
preservation ordinance states: This chapter is enacted to preserve sites, structures, landmarks, and
buildings with special historical, architectural, and aesthetic value, which are unique and
irreplaceable assets. The City only has two irreplaceable assets, and demolition of the Old Mill
would mean losing 50% of them. She was pleased to hear that the Planning Commission shared
that concern. A combination of the City's lack of enforcement of its own code and the owner's
lack of maintenance on the building led to the possibility that the entire building could be
demolished.

Ms. Taylor-Granda evaluates and advocates for historic buildings for a living. She has seen an
owner try to tear down a building on Easter Sunday at 8:00 a.m., when they think no one is
watching. When she brought that up to the City Council, a Council member told her that she was
being hyperbolic, but property owners engage in demolition by neglect all over the country.
Delaying maintenance so they can eventually claim hardship is a very well-known strategy, and
she believes that is what had happened with the Old Mill. The owner's lawyer said that they have
done virtually no maintenance since 1984, which is an admission to demolition by neglect. It is
alarming that they knew there were structural problems after a flood, and all they did was
have engineers evaluate it, but they took no action on it. For the City to say that they may or may
not have ever cited the property for code violations was also alarming and a major failure on the
part of Cottonwood Heights City. She oversees a protective easement program for 130 buildings
across the state, but no one in Cottonwood Heights was tasked with oversight on its two historic
structures.



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                          15
She hoped that the City would take responsibility for their role in neglecting to ensure that
maintenance was being done, and that they not allow the owner to get away with it. No building
is maintenance free, and the owner absolutely neglected that responsibility. They knew year after
year that the building was deficient structurally but could not prove that they did anything other
than tuckpoint every once in a while, and that is neglectful.

Eva Chan stated that she is a new City resident. She believes the owner of the building is clearly
at fault for not maintaining it. She moved from New York City, where she lived among 100- and
200-year-old brownstones, none of which was falling down. The owner stated that the cost
to maintain the building is $100 million, but she believes that may be overstated. They talked
about how the building needs to be restored to be compliant with code, but there are many
examples of historical buildings being partially preserved. The Opera House in San Francisco and
Domino's Sugar factory in New York are examples where certain walls were preserved and luxury
buildings built around them. Demolition of the Old Mill would also have a lot of externalities and
cost the City much more than just the loss of a building. Also, there is an effort to build a tourist
industry in Cottonwood Heights. Park City would look completely different without its Main
Street area. She believes the historical site needs to be preserved for people to see part of the City’s
history. When historical buildings like this were preserved in New York City, surrounding real
estate values increased dramatically. The economic impacts of losing the Old Mill need to be
considered as well.

Jeff Chapman stated that there were two parts to the approval, and the City Council’s part of the
process was to understand that the request is not appropriate. The Walker family took possession
of the property in 1927. The original owner was the Deseret News. The family has had the means
to take care of the property. He also believes that the neglect was intentional and geared toward
future development. The City allowed the property to deteriorate and be abandoned. The
requested density would overwhelm the road, which already has significant traffic problems on ski
days. It is a terrible area for more density, construction debris, housing, and traffic. Fire trucks
will not be able to get through on ski days, and there will not be appropriate services for so many
residents. He believes that the City condemned the property in 2005. We need to be better
stewards of our land, and a lot of development in Cottonwood Heights has slipped through the
cracks. He has lived on Racquet Club Circle for 18 years and has witnessed a terrible zoning
decisions that will result in 140 apartments. The family has had the means and wherewithal to
take care of the property, but they have not.

Deborah Bush stated that she walks by the Old Mill almost every day. She served on the
committee for restoring the historic mill. In 2019, plans were in place for the Cottonwood Heights
Community Center for the Arts, complete with architectural renderings and site development
plans. Multiple professionals in the community were on board to donate time and materials.
Hundreds of emails were sent. Dozens of meetings were held. An outstanding development
company had spent months assessing possibilities for the project. In 2019, a fair and reasonable
offer was presented to the owners. At first, they seemed very interested, but as time went on, there
were always new things that needed to be checked before they could accept the offer. In 2020, it
became more difficult due to COVID, but everyone was still hopeful. So many members of the
community anticipated a beautiful Cottonwood Heights Community Center for the Arts set along



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                            16
the historic trail to the City's own Old Mill Park in beautiful Cottonwood Creek Canyon. Dedicated
citizens' expertise had gone into the plans to convert the Old Mill to a wonderful asset for
Cottonwood Heights. Mayor Peterson and his City Council were optimistic and excited about the
project. Everyone was waiting for a simple yes or no answer from the property owners, but the
reply never came. By 2022, it became obvious that other plans were being made for the Old Mill
and its surrounding acreage. Five years later, the building has fallen into disrepair.

Ms. Bush shared a text from a fellow committee member: “It's devastating to think that the Old
Mill may now be demolished. We brought the best offer, the best team, the best plans, and they
would never move forward.” According to City Code, the building has to be unusable and
unsellable, and she believes everyone can see that the building was sellable.

Diane McQuay stated that she has lived on McIntosh Lane overlooking the Old Mill for 38 years.
She hopes that the building can be preserved, but she is concerned about wildfires in the canyon.
She grew up in Pacific Palisades, which is now gone due to wildfires. Its topography is similar to
Cottonwood Heights and Sandy. They never thought a fire like that could happen, and it could
happen here as well. In one area of Pacific Palisades, traffic came to a standstill and people had
to exit their cars and run for their lives. The cars prevented fire trucks from getting through. She
hopes that the building can be saved, but it is important to consider what will happen in areas with
only one way in and out if there is a fire.

Brad Dickter stated that he is a resident of District 3 and is a proud supporter of responsible
development in his backyard, specifically development that includes affordable, high-density
housing paired with strong transit options and walkable neighborhoods. This is not that. This is
a developer and property owner who has a number that they are willing to spend to maximize their
profit at an immeasurable cost to Cottonwood Heights. The financial incentives driving this
decision are clear. The developer stands to gain from tearing down an iconic structure, while we,
the community, stand to lose the priceless heart of our community. It is not about necessity. This
is a business decision for one private property owner. Every day, he gets to enjoy the Old Mill
when he drives, bikes, or runs by it. At the City Council work session, Commissioner Steinman
spoke about the benefits of micro communities and alternative transit solutions, and the proposal
was the opposite of those plans. Tearing it down would be a step backward. The applicant’s
justification for demolition gave three reasons: reconstruction costs, comparative precedent, and
cost-effective alternative. The comparative precedents the applicant submitted were all restored,
and the reconstruction costs and most cost-effective alternative are simply a subjective choice by
the applicant. He is a YIMBY who says, “Yes in my backyard.” The Hillside Plaza
development be in his backyard, and he supports that type of development. This is not that. He
asked that the Planning Commission oppose this and any demolition that is not absolutely
necessary to enrich the community of Cottonwood Heights, rather than a private businessman.

Ronnie Pessetto spoke on behalf of Seven Canyons Trust, a local nonprofit focused on restoring
and protecting the creeks of the Salt Lake Valley, including Big Cottonwood Creek. The site is an
opportunity for how development interacts with an adjacent creek. Seven Canyons Trust is not
completely opposed to change. However, demolition along the creek corridor is not a neutral
action. It often initiates grading, vegetation removal, and changes to bank stability that can
permanently affect water quality, temperature, erosion, and habitat. Big Cottonwood Creek is



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                        17
already under stress as it provides water for a large majority of people in the Salt Lake Valley
every single day. Without clear conditions, demolition and development can unintentionally
accelerate that degradation and impact the Great Salt Lake because it is a tributary to the Great
Salt Lake. They respectfully asked that any decision include enforceable riparian protections such
as adequate setbacks, demolition, runoff protections, and designs that preserve the creek's
ecological function and greater community connectivity.

Ms. Pessetto pointed out that the mill exists where it does because of the creek. The building, the
City, and the waterway have a shared history, and the decisions made here will shape how residents
experience this place for decades to come. This was a moment to not just replace the structure,
but to get a higher standard, one that allows growth while honoring the creek as a living
infrastructure. Seven Canyons Trust urged the Commission to guide this project toward
smart, riparian-friendly development that protects Big Cottonwood Creek. All the values and
interests that had been presented can be honored and coexist. They are working with Salt Lake
City on the ballpark building, where creek restoration, building restoration, and economic
development exist. It can happen, and they would like to help.

Casey Sullivan stated that he is a masonry restoration contractor who has been interested in the
beautiful building for many years. He had been hopeful that someone might call his firm for a
quote. He has doubts about the building not having a foundation, as he is confident that it is built
on a stone foundation. He also questioned the reconstruction estimates. From what he has seen
from outside the fence, the walls do need repairs, but are not in horrible condition. There could be
adaptive ways to save some of them. The cover of Masonry Magazine shows an old coal
generation site in London that suffered through many decades of deferred maintenance, and that
building was repurposed. There is an opportunity to preserve something that cannot be
reproduced. Blood, sweat, and tears went into building the mill, and bulldozing it would be a
travesty. He believes it will be blood on Cottonwood Heights’ hands if they allow it to happen.
He is willing to donate his time to provide a budget to the City and the building owner for the
masonry restoration. He has worked on older buildings of this size and larger. He is also willing
to donate money to save this treasure.

Nancy Hardy stated that she moved to Cottonwood Heights from London in 2009, and the Old
Mill stood out to her. It is phenomenal to have that old building right in their backyards. Protective
maintenance could have been happening over all the years talking about the mill, and it could start
now. The CUP project will be discussed by the Planning Commission for a year before it goes to
the City Council, and right now is the time to start enforcing the protective maintenance
requirement. The gentleman before her is a good example. Many others have talked about the
Old Mill, and there are people who may love to turn it into something. She has previously
suggested the Eccles Foundation and Huntsman Foundation, and Post Malone lives in the area.
Somebody might want to turn it into a nice restaurant with a private event place upstairs. She has
made those suggestions repeatedly, but she does not know if anybody reached out to them or tried
to find a buyer. She understands that the City probably cannot buy it, but GoFundMe may be an
option to save the Old Mill.

Kevin Witzman stated that he grew up in Indiana. He moved to Cottonwood Heights in 2003 and
fell in love with the Old Mill. He owns a house, land, and business in the City. He would not



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                          18
mind funding an independent engineering assessment. He does not know anything about the
owner, but if he wanted something to fall into this state, he would do exactly what they did. He
walks and drives past the property almost every day and has never seen maintenance being done.
If the owner has records of maintenance, they should show them. He implored the City to not
destroy the building but to instead look at ways to save it. He believes it can be saved without
spending $100 million. If the City and property owner approve, he will bring in an independent
engineer to assess the building. He is willing to pay for Mr. Sullivan to survey the building as
well. He wants to find opportunities to save the Old Mill.

Robert Jones gave his address as 3221 East Vista Grande Circle in Old Mill Estates, where he has
lived for 26 years. He grew up on the west side of the Salt Lake Valley, and everyone there knew
about the Old Mill. His grandparents, parents, and children all visited the mill. Craig Wirth did a
story about the Old Mill on Channel 4, where he talked about the site from its beginnings to the
current day. It was very vibrant, and a lot of events were held there. The Old Mill has been popular
for a long time. It is a shame that it was allowed to degrade, and he thinks there is a chance to save
it. The applicant described how the Old Mill had to be torn down, and three or four months ago
they discussed traffic on the highway. He asked how it was measured and was told that they
looked at the whole road and bridge. He asked if they had looked at the intersections because that
is where the congestion will be, and they said no.

Alan Fletcher stated that he is a resident of Old Mill Estates. They had heard a lot about
stewardship and responsibility. He has known Doug Shelby for a long time and considers him a
friend. He sometimes feels sorry for Mr. Shelby because he is trying to balance a lot of competing
interests. However, whether the family planned it or not, several years ago, they ended up with a
building on the historical register, which carries a responsibility for stewardship. Approximately
35 years ago, he purchased a lot in an HOA. By purchasing it, he agreed to follow the HOA’s
rules about what the house would look like and what he could or could not plant. Over the years,
it had served him well because the rules helped preserve the area. He appreciated Mr. Hemmert’s
explanation about what had happened with the Old Mill over the last 40 years, but as he talked
about the events and movies and other things that had happened, he did not say anything about
stewardship or the responsibility of maintaining the Old Mill. It just kind of sat there. If he had
let his home sit there for 35 years without maintenance and never put money back into it, it would
probably look pretty bad now, too.

John Coburn stated that he grew up in the area during the 1960s and 1970s, and he remembers the
Old Mill being a wonderful place. He moved to the East Coast for a job, and he knows what it
is like to live in suburbia with only houses and developments. It tends to diminish the value of a
community when that is all you have. The Old Mill is a historic building that enriches the
community. It has not been improved, but the potential is there. He thinks Cottonwood Heights
would benefit tremendously if they found benefactors willing to step up and refurbish the Old Mill.
He does not think it is a historic landmark that the City wants to lose because its loss will detract
from the community. Trolley Square is a structure that Salt Lake City chose to refurbish rather
than destroy. They turned it into a flourishing business opportunity in their downtown area.
Cottonwood Heights has the opportunity to restore the Old Mill and turn it into a beautiful
landmark with shops, restaurants, and maybe even a small concert area. It is very enriching to
have historic landmarks in the community, and it would be sad to lose that. The last thing the City



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                          19
needs is another high-rise or more condominiums. It needs enriching structures that increase the
value and quality of life. He asked the Planning Commission to not let the historic Old Mill be
destroyed.

Matt Disney stated that he lives in Old Mill Estates. The City has ordinances for a reason, and this
is clearly a self-created hardship. He was born in 1984, and he is not young anymore. If he
defers maintenance for 41 years, the inevitable will happen. He does not doubt that there are
expenses, but what had been presented were issues of convenience. Rice-Eccles Stadium cost $80
million. He has a hard time believing that it is not opportunistic to state that it will cost
$100 million to renovate or partially renovate the Old Mill, considering the size, scale, and scope
of that project. There are very few historical structures left to preserve in Cottonwood Heights,
and he believes it is everyone’s stewardship to take that seriously before it is too late.

Sarah Gibson stated that she is originally from North Carolina but grew up in Cottonwood Heights.
As a child, she was not a fan of Utah. She moved from an area with lush forests and historic
buildings to a desert and cookie-cutter developments. The first time she saw the Old Mill as a
child, it had the same impact on her as the historic colonial and Civil War buildings on the East
Coast. Set against the mountains, it helped her fall in love with Utah. Over 20 years later, there
is nowhere else she would rather be. She has watched the area change over those decades. Where
there used to be fields, there are townhomes. The idea of this beautiful, irreplaceable mill being
replaced by yet another generic, low-quality development is heartbreaking. Utah residents are
constantly told that profit is a bigger priority than clean air and water, the preservation of the Great
Salt Lake, public lands, and the biodiversity and structural integrity of Little Cottonwood Canyon.
She believes the City has the opportunity to tell the public that they matter, and their history
matters.

Brendan O'Leary stated that he is not a Cottonwood Heights resident, but he went to high school
in the City. There is a dire shortage of buildings that bring a sense of community and identity like
the Old Mill. An earlier comment mentioned how many things are named after it. It is clear that
the mill is an essential part of the community’s identity, and that should not be overlooked. They
were so close to turning the Old Mill into a community arts center, which would have been
wonderful because it would have both looked backward, preserving an incredible historical piece
of Cottonwood Heights’ identity, and provided a space to appreciate art, connect with each other,
and for younger people to invest in the community and explore and develop their own identities.
Losing something like that seems like a preventable outcome, which is an absolute shame. He
hopes another resolution can be reached.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Chair Steinman reported that many online comments had also been received. He thanked everyone
who commented for their passion, experience, and contribution to the community. The Old Mill
is a building that everyone in the community has enjoyed and holds dear.

The Planning Commission has one year to go through the process. He asked that the applicant
spend that year looking at other options for the property. He understands that it is a difficult




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                            20
situation. However, many of the comments they heard were about stewardship and investment,
and stewardship from a community standpoint is a very important component.

CHMC §19.86.045, Protective Maintenance Required, states:

In addition to the requirements of the applicable building code, the owner of any Historic Site
shall maintain and repair the Historic Site in accordance with this section. An Historic Site shall
not be destroyed by neglect of any structure that has or is incurring permanent damage, by
weather, or by vandalism.

The owner shall maintain and repair the Historic Site to the extent that in the opinion of the City
is sufficient to prevent damage to the structural components or the exterior of the structure, or to
prevent the collapse of the structure, or to prevent the structure from becoming so deteriorated as
to render impossible its repair and preservation.

The City can investigate the condition of any Historic Site. Upon finding that the Historic Site is
dilapidated or deteriorating, the City shall notify the property owner by certified letter of the
failure of meeting City codes and standards. The City shall identify specific repairs and any work
necessary to comply with the conditions and requirements approved by the City. The owner shall
have 120 days from written notification to complete necessary repairs and improvements that were
approved by the City. All effort to work with the proper owner will be expended before written
notification is mailed to the property owner. Failure to complete the necessary repairs and work
within 120 days shall constitute a violation of this chapter.

Chair Steinman reported that the Planning Commission identified 10 items for Planning
Department staff to focus on. It is apparent the structure has been neglected over the last 41 years.
The Commission is looking at the past, but also to the future, and it has one year to determine what
happens next. There are a lot of great minds, deep pocketbooks, passion, and the possibility of
obtaining grants. He believes there is an opportunity to preserve the site and potentially make it
better than anyone has imagined. Protective maintenance was required, and the Planning
Commission agreed that the requirement was not met. The City Council must issue a Certificate
of Appropriateness as well. The City can be proactive over the next year by holdings meetings
and public forums and pursuing fundraising efforts.

Chair Steinman asked Mr. Spung to review the items that Staff had been tasked with researching.
Mr. Spung clarified that the information will be provided by the applicant and Staff will relay it to
the Commission. He would be coordinating with the applicant on the following items:

   •   How do the national and state historic designations affect the City’s review and decisions?
   •   Provide more seismic information, including fault lines and locations, as that may be
       helpful to inform a decision.
   •   When was the structure condemned and why? Are there supporting documents?
   •   What has the City done to enforce Historic Preservation standards?
   •   Is there any City liability in regard to approval or disapproval?
   •   Provide more history on the structure and differences in the City and County Codes.
   •   Detail the specific process by which a Historic Structure is designated in the City.


Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                         21
   •   What is the history of maintenance for the structure?
   •   Provide a history of due diligence efforts to preserve the structure.
   •   Research when the maintenance clause was added to City Code.

Commissioner Anderson stated that there are still a lot of unknowns and information that needs to
be gathered. She recommended that the matter be a standing agenda item so questions can be
discussed as they arise. Commissioner Lugo agreed and remarked that there had been a lot of
discussion about the actual renovation costs. He believes it is important to understand the actual
cost, as he had heard amounts between $20 million and $100 million. Commissioner Anderson
remarked that the Planning Commission should be mindful of the scope of what is being evaluated
and ensure that they are doing it appropriately.

Commissioner Mills commended members of the public for the way they conducted themselves
and the improved communication. All three previous Mayors had courted large donors to restore
the Old Mill, but their efforts were unsuccessful. He strongly encouraged anyone who can get the
right people in the room to do so, as that is not within the Planning Commission’s purview. He
encouraged everyone who was involved with the 2019 opportunity to reconvene and connect with
those who offered resources. There may be an opportunity to reach a resolution on that proposal.

Commissioner Mills agreed with Commissioner Anderson regarding keeping the item on the
agenda. He believes there will be regular new pieces of information. Planning Department Staff
has done an enormous amount of work to get up to speed on an issue that others sat on for decades.
There is a desire on the part of the Planning Commission to retain institutional memory and ensure
best practices to benefit the future of Cottonwood Heights. That can be hard to see from the
audience, but they all have the desire to be happy about the City they live in. He heard things
during the public hearing that he was not aware of, and that level of public engagement has always
led Cottonwood Heights to make better decisions than many of its neighbors. Public engagement
matters. He is dismayed at what was allowed to happen, but the Planning Commission cannot
impose penalties related to those missteps. He believes there may be pathways that provide the
best possible outcome for both the property and the Shelbys.

Commissioner Mills stated that he had no other questions to add to the list and was hopeful that
the applicant would provide timely responses to the existing questions. He asked Staff to track the
timeliness of the responses because there had been delays in the past, and that would be an
unacceptable outcome for this process.

Mr. Spung recommended that the item be included on work session agendas only as there may not
be substantive material to review in business meetings. The next meeting would be held on
February 4 and there likely was not enough time to obtain new information, so he suggested that
the item be placed on the March 4 agenda. Staff likely will not have answers to all the
Commission’s questions at that time, but they will be able to provide an update on the process.

Mr. Spung did not believe it would be appropriate to notice every meeting as a public hearing. All
meetings are public, but there is a significant cost to the City in both postage and Staff time in
mailing out notices for every meeting. At the March 4 meeting, the Planning Commission can
identify any specific dates that may like advertised as a public hearing. The current meeting


Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                       22
satisfied all City and State requirements so no additional public hearings were legally required.
However, he recommended that one be held at the meeting where a decision is made.

Chair Steinman stated that he does not believe it is necessary to hold another public hearing in the
interim and noted that public comments are welcomed at the beginning of every meeting.
Commissioner Shelton recommended reopening the item for written public comments so the
Commission can continue to review those comments throughout the year but agreed that additional
public hearings are not necessary.

Commissioner Mills remarked that there is a general public comment period at every Planning
Commission meeting, and all residents can speak for three meetings during that period. It was a
question of noticing. Mr. Topham agreed. A public hearing is different from a public comment
period. The public can provide public comment at any meeting, and people who are interested in
this topic can make public comment at any future meeting. He recommended that the Planning
Commission decide whether and when to have additional public hearings based on what happens
at future meetings.

Commissioner Smith reiterated his concerns about safety. He wanted to verify that the property
is secure so if someone climbs the fence, a brick will not fall on them. He does not know the best
way to determine that, but it is important to ensure that the property is safe and secure.
Commissioner Mills stated that cameras and a fence had been installed by Mr. Shelby, and
Cottonwood Heights police drive by regularly as well. Commissioner Smith stated that he has
heard that some teenagers still get in regardless of things like fences.

Mr. Spung stated that the property is private. The City has no responsibility or liability to maintain
it or prevent people from entering, and the Planning Commission should avoid any stipulations to
that effect. However, the owners are taking measures to secure the property and have minimized
trespassing.

Chair Steinman stated that multiple engineering studies were included in the Staff Report,
including some that were conducted by Salt Lake County. He asked if Mr. Spung was aware of
the County’s reason for conducting studies on the Old Mill for a private landowner. Mr. Spung
stated that he can research the matter and present his findings at a future meeting. Chair Steinman
requested an audit of the existing studies as a first step. The Planning Commission had discussed
a separate City survey, and it would worthwhile for a nonbiased third party to evaluate the site and
better understand why and when other third-party tests were conducted. Studies can take several
months, but the Planning Commission has one year, and it is important to understand what is
happening as well as the applicant’s liability. There are other concerns on the list, but from his
perspective that should be the top priority. An audit of any maintenance steps that had been taken
would also be helpful.

Mr. Spung stated that the City Council will discuss the possibility of conducting an independent
study. A budget adjustment will be required to approve that expense. Staff will brief the Council
on the application, and it will be addressed at that time. Chair Steinman remarked that some
members of the public had offered to contribute to the effort.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                          23
Commissioner Mills stated that the reference to Salt Lake County was actually a statement Mr.
Shelby had asked Mr. Erickson to submit. Mr. Erickson was the Salt Lake County Engineer and
Chief Building Officer at the time, but that does not necessarily imply that he was acting in an
official capacity. The letter did not appear to originate from Salt Lake County, but rather from an
individual that had interacted with Mr. Shelby.

Commissioner Smith moved CONTINUE Project CUP-25-005 to the March 4, 2026 Planning
Commission Meeting. Commissioner Mills seconded the motion. The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

4.0    Consent Agenda

       4.1     Approval of December 15, 2025, Planning Commission Minutes.

Commissioner Mills moved to APPROVE the Consent Agenda, as presented. Commissioner
Smith seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

5.0    Adjourn.

Commissioner Shelton moved to ADJOURN the Work Session. Commissioner Anderson
seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Work Session adjourned at 8:09 p.m.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                       24
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the
Cottonwood Heights City Planning Commission Work Session and Business Session held on
Wednesday, January 21, 2026.


Teri Forbes
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: _____________________________




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                               25
